ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start our work. [[It was 9 hours and 36 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Today we have an extensive agenda, the first of which consists of a current debate required by the CFP under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on the organization of the next academic year, career and contests of teachers. Mr Ana Mesquita of the CFP, to give the opening intervention, has the floor. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has scheduled this current debate on the start of the next academic year, careers and competitions of teachers and educators, taking into account recent developments and government action. Nine years, four months and two days — this is the time during which teachers and educators worked in schools, even knowing that they would not progress due to freezing, but years in which they were diligent, contributing to the quality of public school and the improvement of student results. Therefore, do not take public attempts that have been carried out there by teachers and educators and by the pacification of their struggle. Teachers and educators are right! And it is here to undo a first myth that the time of service to be recovered must be negotiated in advance in order to reach an agreement allowing negotiations between government and trade unions to begin. You don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u3	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u4	It is a right that stems from career and recognition of the counting of service time comes from the State Budget Act in the wording of Article 19. the, which recognises the count not 'of' but 'of' time of service, subject to negotiation only the time limit and the manner in which the remuneration expression is made. This is also the declaration of commitment between trade unions and government of 18 November 2017. And even, if there were any doubts, Resolution No. 1/2018 itself clarifies and recommends counting all the time of service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u6	So we have to ask the Government what we are left with. Does the government intend to fail to comply with the State Budget Act? Are you going to disregard the commitment statement signed with the unions? The second myth is related to the teaching career. There are 10 steps and there is no automatic progression because, through the specific steps, the length of service of stay on the ladder is required, performance assessment with a minimum of « good », continuous training hours, classroom observation and the obtaining of a gap for progression at 5. a is 7. The steps. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, according to OECD, that is often mentioned in this House, on average, the careers of teachers, to reach the top, take 24 years. In Portugal, it takes 34 years. In other words, by denying the full count of service time, is the government pointing to a new career that can reach up to 48 years of service, in a context where there are numerous teachers who before, even if they can get into the career, spend 10, 20, 30 years as contractors? And it's no exaggeration, it's no exaggeration! In the last extraordinary external contest, in the recruitment group of Portuguese and English, the first teacher placed had 20 years of service and the last one had already 11 years! Third myth : the accounts of the government. These accounts were made to impress public opinion, which stems from wrong assumptions. Teachers do not progress all on 1 January 2018, they progress throughout the year. The teachers would not receive the total value of the step in 2018 because, like the rest of the public service, they would only receive 25 %. In addition, the number of progressions does not depend only on the time of service but also on the fulfilment of several mandatory requirements. The government knows that teachers have never demanded that the recovery of service time should be done only once and put their phase-up over 5 years to start in 2019. In the words of the Minister for Education and of the Prime Minister, the idea is raised that there will never be this full recovery. It implies this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, does the government assume that it is destroying the teachers' career as we know it today? Other questions arise. The government has opted for confrontation with the unions, generating a climate of conflict in public school. This is the case with the recent information note by DGESTE ( Directorate-General for School Establishments ) on the strike convened on 18 June, an information note containing provisions that clearly aim to condition the right to strike of teachers and educators and guidelines that can be read as illegal, in particular with regard to the early collection of the student assessment elements or the completion of the class council to the third call. Does the government not remember what was the result of such an attitude last year and what led to the establishment of 17 disciplinary procedures for directors in violation of the right to strike? We still have other problems that need to be answered in public school and which also concern other workers than teachers and educators. This is the case with operational assistants, educational action assistants, whose ratio does not yet respond to the objective needs of schools. These same workers see again the possibility of part-time and fair term recruitment through the decree-law of budgetary implementation and also again have another attack on the side of precariousness, at the same time as a program for regulating precarious links in the Public Administration. A word also for the situation of specialized education technicians, who also have a life marked by tremendous precariousness, who await answers to their processes of regularization of links and who have the particularity of, from 31 August, not knowing what their future is. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, it is not enough for the government to mention what has been more or less resolved, what has been done more or less; what is needed at this time is to respond to the numerous problems that persist in public school and to those that have now been created by government action or inaction. As for the Prime Minister's response in the 15-year debate on the lack of money for the rights of teachers and educators, we leave a note: there is money, what it is necessary to choose where and how to look for it. Because instead of bailouts to the bank, instead of defaultable debt interest, rather than submission to the dictates of the European Union and the deficit, we need decent conditions to live in our country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the initial intervention, we will enter the debate period. First of all, for an intervention, Mr. Minister for Education is inscribed, to whom I give the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Very good morning to all. Today we are talking about the organization of the next school year and the teaching career. For our part, we have done everything and we will do everything so that the next school year will proceed, from beginning to end, exactly as it has happened since we took possession: in time and hours, with sufficient means and clear objectives. As for the career of teachers, the Government Programme, approved in this plenary, provides for the appreciation of the teaching career. The Government Programme provides for the defrosting of teachers'careers, which are state servants. The Government Programme does not provide for the counting of any past service time, the same as it was frozen in the laws of the State Budget between 2011 and 2017. The Government Programme provided for the clock to count again, the watch that counts all the watches, forward and not backward, and on January 1, 2018 the service time returned to career progression. This Government is scrupulously fulfilling the programme which has been presented to this House and is doing well beyond it. He met in valuing and dignifying the teaching profession, after having been targeted by a brutal exclusion of thousands and thousands of teachers and an intense financial and symbolic devaluation, almost as if education was a null sum game in which for some to win others must lose. For this government, to me, teachers must have their profession valued as much as they deserve and as much as we can. Thus, we guarantee the essential financial sustainability of this advance, giving an effective step that is really possible to accommodate. Here lies the radicality of the defense that I make of the value of each teacher. I defended the teachers when they ended the chaos that was the ECB ( School Procurement Exchange ), with the humiliation that was the supposed requalification and the fantasy that was the so-called PACC ( Knowledge and Capacity Assessment Test ). In 2015, for a teacher to be linked to the public service he needed to hold five successive contracts; today he only needs three. This is called defending the teachers. Teachers know how they have been defended by this government throughout this legislature. This is known to the 7000 teachers who will have permanent ties to the state and who were previously precarious year after year. The 1000 additional teachers know well that this year they are contributing to the excellence of our public school and know this, in fact, all the teachers for whom, from 1 January this year, the clock has counted again, all those who have re-emerced salary, who have re-increased remuneration, who have returned, as we have always promised, to be able to make progress in their career. We have witnesses to what I say, thousands of them. More than 45 000 of our teachers, almost half of the total, are on their way up this year of 2018. We did not stay here and went further, we went beyond the Government Programme. Knowing that no one can put a clock back, we still commit ourselves, the government and the unions, to negotiate how much, how and when one could recover from what was lost in the past to mitigate what was frozen in the previous State budget laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u9	It wasn't negotiated how much!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u10	That is why, last November, a declaration of commitment and not an agreement was signed by the trade union organisations on that long morning, because it was not agreed on how much time to recover. After six months, what we have is an initial and immutable claim by the unions and a government negotiating proposal. The government started from zero, which was what the previous seven budgets anticipate, and went until the recovery of two years, nine months and eighteen days. [[PSD protests.]] The unions left the total count of service time and reached the total count of service time. For my part, the government has existed, exists and there will be what to negotiate and want to negotiate. It happens that for a negotiation, as in tango, two are needed and for there to be negotiation, one must want to negotiate. The government has walked and has come far beyond where it was at the beginning and now waits for us, together, to reach a common place that does not waste the path we have already made. Even because there is still much way to go, whether in the regulation of the teaching career, whether in the generational rejuvenation of teachers, and we can only do this together if there is anyone who wants, in fact, to walk and not, as Sérgio Godinho sings, to be found « waiting for the train/on the bus stop». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u11	Mr Minister, three Members have signed up to request clarification. I assume that, in view of the time available, you will want to answer globally. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs. Joana Mortágua of BE, to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u12	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members, Mr Minister today faces a crisis of confidence and, although he insists, even lamentably, on transferring this weight over teachers and teachers and on transferring this weight over trade unions, the fact is that there are 120,000 teachers in this country who have believed in the Government's commitment to full recovery of service time. And if they believed it wasn't because the Left Block or because the unions had promised the teachers things the government never talked about; they believed because there was a negotiating commitment from which the unions and the government left so many in the morning to be able to integrate a definite article: "the" time of service and not "any" time of service! They believed because the State Budget Law spoke in time and way, he never spoke in how much; he spoke in time and time and never in time. Mr. Minister can bring here the Socialist Party's Government Programme, but that does not hide what was left in the State Budget. And they believed because, after all, there is a draft resolution in the Assembly of the Republic that speaks in full recovery of service time, which had the approval of the Socialist Party, which I think the Government should still count as the word given here in the Assembly of the Republic. Francisco Assisi, who is suspicious of being in agreement with many of the things we say here, recalled Lydia Jorge at another moment of tension in public school, saying that care is needed not to humiliate a depressed class. Now, the Minister says here that the unions are intransigent, but the truth is that it was the Minister who chose the path of humiliation rather than the way of negotiation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u13	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u14	He chose the path of humiliation when he proposed that teachers recover 30 % of their time of service or nothing, that is, 30 %, according to the criteria of another career which is not theirs or nothing, i.e. blackmail. He chose the path of humiliation when he chose an administrative file to surround a strike that is legitimate, because the teachers are outraged because the government has failed to speak. You chose the humiliation by saying here that the watch doesn't count back,... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] ... allowing socialist leaders to say that teachers demand retroactively, knowing perfectly that what they want is the recovery of service time, as will exist for general careers, as will exist for the teachers of Madeira, as will exist for the teachers of the Azores. Therefore, this majority and these teachers trusted Mr. Minister even for all that he said at the end of the ECB, at the end of the CAPC, to reverse Nuno Crato's policies. They never gave Mr. Minister a mandate to re-edit the speech of Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u16	You have never given that mandate to the Minister. What would be worse at this time would be Mr Minister re-editing a hostile speech on teachers to justify a meaningless war with the unions, to hide a very simple thing: Mr Minister gave his word and failed and, on the other hand, on the negotiating table, to which Mr Minister does not want to return, is a proposal for a phase-up, not until 2019 but until 2023, of the full recovery of the time of service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u17	You have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u18	Mr President, Minister, here comes to say that the Government's Programme speaks of the issue of the appreciation of the teaching career, of the defreezing of careers. It gives me an idea, Mr Minister, that none of this is incompatible with what has been approved here in the Assembly of the Republic, and with the commitment made to the unions. It was from these pieces that Mr Minister did not speak in his initial speech that he should know why. It is only possible that the Minister has no interest in remembering that there was a rule in Article 19. that of the Law of the State Budget, which was approved, which speaks of the counting of the time of service and therefore, of course, of the full time of service provided for the purposes of valuing the career. But then, shortly thereafter, the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2018 — which, of course, the Minister of Education knows — further clarifys the whole time of service for the purpose of valuing the career. I must remind you, Mr Minister, that this Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic was proposed by the Greens Ecological Party, only obtained the PSD and CDS abstentions and had the favourable vote of all the other seats. There is one question I have to ask you directly, Minister: will the Government not comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u19	You're not going, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u20	Will the Government have the opportunity to arrive at Parliament and say that it will not actually comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic approved by this vast majority? Oh, my God! I'd like a direct answer, Minister. On the other hand, it certainly does not forget the commitment signed with the unions of November 2017, where we also talk about counting the time of service. It gives me an idea that this article has been a lot of hours of discussion with the government. What, then, does the government have to negotiate? It is not the counting of all the time of service, because that is more than clear; what the government has to negotiate with the unions is the deadline and the way that will happen. It seems to me that the trade unions are quite open to negotiations with the government on this matter, because they even say that all this can happen, it is a starting point for negotiation by 2023. Therefore, Minister, there is here a negotiating margin for the deadlines and ways in which the Government should be prepared. But what does the government do? It goes to negotiations with the unions not to negotiate what should be negotiated, but to negotiate what is not negotiable, because it is more than stipulated. Mr Minister, I also tell you: to arrive here at the Assembly of the Republic, with the help of saying that the government is perfectly open to negotiation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u21	And he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u22	... which brings a negotiating proposal, when it is public knowledge that the government addressed the unions and said 'or accept two years and nine months or so take nothing'... [[Protests by the Minister of Education.]] Didn't I? Oh, my God! So, who made it up? Oh, my God! Let's find out who invented this matter, Minister. It gives me an idea that it is from the public knowledge that the matter has been referred to in this way. On the other hand, it is not worth to come to the question of the amount, to say that it is not possible to accommodate 600 million, to say that the country falls into bankruptcy if the career of teachers and other professions and other careers are dependent on the counting of all the time of service. Mr. Minister knows that's not the case. It's not worth waving with this daddy, because not everyone's going to make progress on the same day at the same time. It is a phased issue and the Minister knows that. The amount of 600 million, announced, in particular by the Prime Minister, is a fallacious amount. But even if it wasn't a fallacious amount—it is! — I must tell you, Mr Minister, that in Portugal there is money for a lot of things, but as far as the value of those who work is concerned,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u24	...there's always got to pull, and pull, and pull, and pull until you're tired.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u25	Mrs. Member, pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u26	Mr. President, I'm really going to finish. Mr Minister, these are questions of political options. When the government decided to lower the deficit more than the target in a given year and thus managed not to invest EUR 1400 million in Portugal, and in the following year more than EUR 800 million, take stock, Minister, and see whether or not there is room to value these careers! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u27	Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u28	Mr President, Minister, we will no longer waste more time clarifying issues that have been absolutely clear since 2005. Also in 2005 there were insidious campaigns in relation to teachers with this history of progressions, careers, acquired rights that were to attack and all that, so we will not waste more time with it. The question now arises: after all, what concrete proposal has the Government made in relation to the deadline and method of payment to trade union organisations resulting from what is enshrined in Article 19. that of the State Budget Act? What was it? What was the concrete proposal in the context of negotiation? Or was there no negotiation? Oh, my God! This is a fundamental question! There is another question called here: will the government or will not comply with the State Budget Act for 2018? [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] We want to hear the answer to this question: it will or will not fulfill exactly what is reflected in Article 19. on the counting of service time, being negotiated the time and mode? And if so, what is the concrete proposal? We want to hear the answer to this question. Mr Minister, there is also a practical question: what solutions and measures will be taken, in practice, exactly to remedy the problems and start the next school year in a standardized way? That is, what is the solution to the questions put here regarding the time of service? I recall that there are other questions. The Government has repeatedly disrespected collective bargaining. So it happened with the issues of internal mobility, with the lists of the fifth and seventh steps and with the extraordinary external invitation to tender, in which there was not even negotiation. Is this the way that's going to be taken? Or, on the contrary, will solutions be found involving the unions and calling for negotiation and dialogue between the parties? Moreover, Minister : what is the solution for specialized education technicians? A short time ago, we said that August 31 is almost there, the links are not regularized, the competitions do not open, the technicians do not know what will happen. What is the solution that is being thought of for specialized technicians? Similarly, what is the solution that will be found to solve the problems of precariousness with educational action auxiliaries, which is the possibility of their replacement in the light of the law, which is the possibility of hiring without being through precarious links and partial work? What concrete measures will the government take to solve the problems? Minister, we do not want to hear what has already been done. We recognized everything that was done at the right time and valued what was to be valued. We have many problems to solve, and that is what we are talking about today. We want to hear answers about what is now under discussion, about the problems we are now going through, about what is the commitment made to representative workers' organisations. Do we want to hear the answer that will be given — the union leaders are attending the session — regarding the scrupulously compliance with the State Budget Act of 2018? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u29	Although I do not have much time, because the debate has its limitations, I have the floor to answer, Mr Education Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions. This government has, in fact, negotiated. I understand that sometimes the truth spoils a good story, but I will not lie because of that. It's up to me to tell the truth here. Mrs Green's Member, you will not be able to put what others have said in my mouth. blackmail is not part of my lexicon. I've never blackmailed anyone in this process. I want to make that absolutely clear! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Chantage cannot be when we take one step and, on the other hand, no one takes one step. [[PCP protests.]] It is true that the unions, in this particular issue — not in all — may at present be in conflict with me, but I would clearly mean that I will not be in conflict with the teachers and I will not even be in conflict with the unions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I deeply respect teachers and trade union organisations. I very much respect the right to strike, as I greatly respect the right of our children to education. That is what is now in question. [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] As for blackmail, which is not and has never been in my lexicon, it will not put the words of others in my mouth. [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] I say again that, most likely, this spoils a good story about me saying something and Mr. Prime Minister said otherwise. But I want to say here at the moment that this is not true, because I did not blackmail at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u31	So tell me what you woke up!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u32	He told the trade unions that, after the starting point, we had a position on the table and he also expected from the trade unions a position on the table. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u33	What's the time and mode? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u34	I will repeat what I said a short time ago in the rostrum: on the part of the government, for my part, there existed, and there will be what to negotiate and want to negotiate. It happens that for a negotiation, as is the case in tango, two are needed. At this moment, we are therefore waiting for the steps of the two parties which are the Members of the House to take, because they have allowed it to appear, that we are not inflexible, nor are we authoritarian, nor do we break any dialogue! Never! Obviously, if words like blackmail were on the table, it was natural for trade union organisations to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u35	It's called negotiation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u36	We are not inflexible, we are not intolerant and at no time we break the dialogue!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u37	Say what's the proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u38	We have before tabled a proposal which seems to us as possible, which is fair, which is reasonable and which is, above all, sustainable in time, and for which we have not received a response.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u39	You must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u40	I mean this government, my team will always negotiate what there is to negotiate. It can't be just the government negotiating. But we're not intransigent.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u41	Tell me what the proposal is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u42	I would also very briefly like to respond to Mrs Ana Mesquita with regard to specialized technicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u43	Mr Minister, I would like to work together to ensure that the answers are given, but I have as a condition the rules of this debate. I would ask you to respond by concluding it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u44	Mr President, then I leave two brief missives: there was no blackmail, there is no willingness to negotiate, and there is nothing to negotiate ; on the other hand we will authorize the renewal of contracts until the competitions are completed in this important process of PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Restriction Programme of the Precincts in the Public Administration ). These messages are absolutely unequivocal and absolutely direct in relation to the negotiating process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u45	Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u46	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The country is witnessing today with perplexity a climate of instability, confrontation and disbelief as long ago as it did not occur in education. A climate to which no one escapes: students, families, teachers, employees, directors and society in general. A climate promoted by the government and which had its origin in the confusion of its action. A government hidden for purposes, incompetent in action, deliberately ambiguous in words. Just remember the story: in November last year, the government promised to count the time of service for the purposes of career progression, that time which was accumulated by the decisions of the socialist governments of 2005 and 2010. [[PS protests.]] The Secretary of State here, in Parliament on 15 that month, took up the accounting of the time of service: « A way to recover the time of service will be found. We shall see, together with the unions, how they will be phased up». Three days later, the Government signed a declaration of commitment to all trade unions, where it agrees to negotiate — and I quote — « the concrete model of career replacement that allows time to be recovered». In the State budget for this year, an article on this matter was expressly introduced and for no doubt the parties supporting the Government to adopt in January a draft resolution to reinforce that it was « counted all that time ». It was therefore a matter for the Government of the manner and time limit of replacement rather than recognition of the right. Seven months ago, Mr Minister came to the teachers and to the social communication: "The hours of service provided by the teachers will not be counted for the purposes of career progression", he concluded the negotiations, withdrawing the proposal made in March. The Minister has come to assume, before the country, that the Government has made public statements and has stated commitments that it does not intend to comply with. The government has deceived the teachers and lied to Parliament and the Portuguese people. [[PSD applause.]] [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u47	The Minister has chosen, in a surgical way, and from our irresponsible point of view, the time to announce that the government has been misleading teachers: early June, critical moment of the end of the academic year, final phase of the evaluations. In order to settle the matter, Mr Prime Minister, who for seven months had his Government selling illusions, came to Parliament to say that there was no money. As you can imagine, Minister, no one is more sensitive than the Portuguese people to this argument. It is fresh in the memory of everyone the difficulty of governing a country without money to pay salaries to public servants and the effort to overcome external financial intervention. But let me ask you, Minister: when did the government find out that there was no money? When was this revelation given? Was it now in June? If so, and unless you tell us what has changed from November to now, the government has done wrong when it promised in November, and then the government is incompetent. [[PSD applause.]] Or did the government always know that there was no money and he was aware that there was, choosing the end of the school year to take it and put any reaction of the teachers as a target? in this case, the government has lied and is irresponsible. [[PSD applause.]] The government promised what it couldn't do. It is the responsibility of the government and the guardianship of education, but it is also of the parties in this House that, for political convenience, have agreed to be deceived and therefore they have also deceived the teachers. [[PS protests.]] It is up to the government to find a solution, a solution that sets the policy of 'all against' : parents and teachers, directors against the guidelines of the Ministry, teachers without knowing whether the internal and extraordinary contests will be challenged, families with the prospect of instability at the beginning of the new school year. Mr Minister, how is it possible to value education with this installed climate? How is it possible to value education with this government, which one day presents teachers as victims of austerity and the next day portrays them as unjustified beneficiaries of rest? It is not « to give sketches», as the Government likes to do, as with any evaluation for career replacement, which is worth the career. On the contrary, serious evaluation is discredited. Students, teachers and the relationship of the educational community deserve all our respect and particular attention for what they represent for the future of this country. Putting society to discuss school for the wrong reasons and not for the good is not to value school. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u48	Mr Porfirio Silva has signed up to make requests for clarification, but Mrs Margarida Mano no longer has time to answer. However, you may use the floor in another way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u49	Mr President, since the honourable Member did not leave time to answer, I was asking to make an inquiry to the Bureau now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u50	What's the point, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u51	Mr President, on the conduct of the work and to request the distribution of two documents.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u52	Mr President, if you would like to deliver the documents to the Bureau, let us make sure that we distribute them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u53	Mr President, I shall deliver to the Bureau two documents and request that the declaration of commitment between the Government and the trade unions be distributed in particular to the PSD Parliamentary Group, where in point 5 ( a ) of paragraph, it is said that « the three fundamental variables for negotiation are the time... »...... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u54	Sir, please deliver the documents!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u55	... «... the method of recovery and the timetable ». [[PSD protests.]] And I would like to ask Mr President — I understand that the PSD parliamentary board does not want to hear — to distribute another document. This document...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u56	Mr Porfirio Silva, one thing is to ask the Bureau to announce the delivery of documents, another thing is to read the content of the documents. I ask you to finish your inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u57	I will not read the content of the document and I will deliver another document, which is a partial transcription, as well as the link to the video on the FRENPOF page, on the Internet, about the statements made by union representatives at the end of the negotiating night on 18 November. [[Protests of the PSD, having beaten with the hands on the sides of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u58	Mr President, I would like to ask you to finish your inquiry and to ask the Members to do so. Members or in favour of respecting the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u59	I shall now deliver the documents, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u60	The gentlemen. Members will do their best to respect the Bureau. Mr Porfirio Silva has already concluded his inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u61	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u62	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u63	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u64	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u65	Mr President, I would like to ask you that the documents delivered to the Bureau by the Socialist Party should also be distributed to the Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u66	I've put this on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The defrosting of the teaching career and its impact on progress has been conducted by the government in a diffuse, inconsistent and erratic way, allowing all ambiguity. All political parties, all without exception, know that if the freezing of public administration careers was a difficult political decision, thawing is a very complex decision, because there are expectations generated during the years of suspension; because, meanwhile, there were changes to careers and because there is a considerable budgetary impact that, moreover, was precisely the reason and cause of the first freezing in 2005 in the PS government of José Socrates.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u68	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u69	The least that could be asked of this PS government was that it had studied and planned the defrosting of public administration careers before it announced, because it was clear that its effects would not be exhausted in a legislature. But that would imply political responsibility and courage, which is missing from this government as much as it remains in leviance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u70	You guys had a lot of courage to say goodbye!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u71	Suddenly, the government announced the defrosting of the teaching career and, in the cacophony of voices that followed, allowed all interpretations. We have heard Mr. Prime Minister say: "What we are doing is to put back the timer to count; one thing is to get back the timer didn't count" and then we heard the opposite of Mr. Secretary of State: "What we're going to do with the unions is create a form of time count". After all, does it count or doesn't it count? After all, the teachers don't know what to count on today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u72	The Government maintained this indetermination to ensure the approval of the State budget and to maintain balance with the Left Block and the CFP. And the Left Block and the PCP kept their habit: negotiating at the table and claiming on the street, even knowing the limitations and ambiguity, of which the wording of article 19. that of the State budget is a notable example. For the Left Block and the PCP win is in the very claim: if you count some time, then it will be because these parties demanded it, but if you do not count any time then it will be the fault of the PS and the dividends on the left will be raised in the electoral campaign approaching. All these parties took advantage of the teaching class, feeding on the limit an illusion, saying one thing in opposition and doing another when they support or are government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u74	« There is no money», warns Mr. Prime Minister now. For if there were, wage deposits would not be paid in soft benefits until December 2019. « There is no money», warns Mr. Prime Minister now. And for once I said the truth by so many others in which he decreed the end of austerity. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The CDS has alerted us to the political fraud that this State budget is and therefore we abstained from these specific rules and therefore we voted against the Budget, because we have a clear notion that we should respect teachers and so on to the entire Public Administration and that we cannot create expectations that we can then, as Country, fulfill. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was the duty of the Government to present a transparent plan for the defrosting of all Public Administration careers, including the teaching career. The CDS requires you to present it now, clarifying everything that needs to be negotiated: time, career, wages, evaluation and retirement. A plan which implies commitments for the future and which therefore has to go through this Parliament. As long as this is not done, we will continue to see a measurement of electoral forces that are used by teachers, in all this the most damaged and once again the most undervalued.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u75	It is the ability of the CDS not to dirty hands with the ongoing discussion!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u76	But we all lose the instability in public school, which reaches students and families at the time of exams and will continue at the beginning of the next school year. And we all lose for once again the opportunity to discuss what is central in the education system: how to improve the school success of all our students. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u77	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The school is not a building nor a set of buildings and equipment. When we talk about school, we talk about people — students, teachers, and parents. The school is certainly for students, but there is no public school without its professionals — teachers, technicians and assistants. Teachers may not all be excellent, as we are not all excellent,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u79	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u80	...but in general, educators and teachers do a remarkable job. Even in difficult conditions, they have formed the most qualified generation ever. Even the aged, but highly qualified class, and which, precisely, must be compensated for this qualification, continues to seek educational answers for children and young people in public school who have the best chance of escaping the burden of inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we are proud of the good results of the PISA (Program for International Student Assessment) we should also be proud of our teachers. That is why it is well understood that this Minister of Education, this Government and this majority have the appreciation of teachers as one of their main priorities. It was the end of the ECB, the end of the CAP, the end of the requalification. It is the fight against precariousness: with 7000 new links of teachers in just two years and the successive improvement of the work standard; with better conditions of repositioning when binding; with the increase of vacancies to link to school frames; with the creation of the Portuguese Gestive Language Recruitment Group and the regularization of the situation of teachers of Music and Dance; with the inclusion of the intervals of 1. the cycle in the educational component; with the harmonisation of the pre-school and 1 calendars. the cycle; with the revaluation of monodoc; with the return of investment in continuous training; and with the defrosting of careers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Many of these measures had the right side opposition and it is well understood why. During the previous government mandate, the public school lost tens of thousands of teachers. And do not apologize to the troika, because the right has chosen to invest in association contracts and at the same time sacrifice the public school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] Therefore, PSD and CDS cut into education EUR 1200 million in addition to what was foreseen in the Memorandum of Understanding. On the contrary, in this legislature we have already managed to increase about 7,000 teachers in public school. So you see who values teachers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A PSD Member spoke of a cost-free defrosting situation for some time now. We understand the idea, but that's not our way. This government — and well! — made a defrosting with expenditure. It was our commitment, it was fulfilled in time and hours and the professionals are already feeling, and they will continue to feel, year after year, the consequent remunerative valuation. However, a new question has arisen: the question of recompositioning careers. On a new issue, which was not envisaged in the Government Programme or in any agreement, the Government's attitude was to say: « we will negotiate». In matters involving the mobilization of additional resources, where there is political will but where political will is not enough, there is a need to negotiate. The government proposed the recovery of almost three years of service time. Can anyone say this is nothing? [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Seriously, no one can underestimate the relevance of this proposal. As long as this proposal has been made, there has been no progress on the part of the unions. Trade unions have an important role to play in real democracy. We therefore renew our appeal here: we hope that negotiations will be resumed and that trade unions will need to give a signal. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] The Government has already said that its proposal is on the table. But there is only negotiation if all sides take steps. We therefore call again on the unions to give a clear signal that they do not want to let the negotiations die, so that a just and sustainable agreement can continue to be built. Let's give the public school a chance! Let us not let the debate come to an end. Let us continue to work so that all students learn more and better and that all education professionals have better conditions to do their work. We will not be able to do anything about this in the context of crispation or confrontation. And this simple truth summons all of us to a path to go. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u81	Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u82	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: We all know — the unions also know — that the recovery of hours of service of teachers and teachers has a budgetary impact, not because teachers have a career above the other superior technicians, but because they are 120 000 teachers that public school needs. It would be cheap to pay them the minimum wage, but that would mean the destruction of public school and the destruction of education as we know it. Therefore, there is money, even because the teachers proposed a phase up to 2023. The problem is whether the government respects the Eurogroup more than the Assembly of the Republic, the teaching career and the rights of teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u83	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u84	The problem is that the road is narrowing. Every time the PS attacks the rights of teachers and the status of the teaching career, the right has the most open doors to destroy the public school, which is its agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u85	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u86	The path is narrowing and therefore what we want to know — what is important to know — is whether the government will negotiate the phase of the recovery of service time or will align itself with the proposal of David Justino and the PSD, i.e. the expiry of the Statute of the Teaching Career. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by PSD MPs Adam Silva and Emídio Guerreiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u87	You now have the floor, also for one speech, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u88	Mr President, Minister, recently, I asked you a very direct question and asked you for a concrete answer. Repeat: Will the Government violate Resolution No. 1 / 2018, adopted by a large majority in the Assembly of the Republic?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u90	Mr Minister, I am sorry that I have not responded, because if perhaps I had answered in the sense that I think I could answer... The question is no longer exclusively in the relationship between the government and the unions and the teachers, the question is in the relationship of the government with the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Minister, we have a clear rule of the State budget, Article 19. the, and we have Resolution No 1 / 2018, with work done by the Assembly of the Republic — adopted with the votes of all banks less than those of the PSD and the CDS, it is said to be passing — and therefore there is a very clear message by Parliament on what the political orientation of the government in this matter and also of Parliament itself should be.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u91	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u92	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr. Porfirio Silva said, from the rostrum, anything like this: "Almost three years is not good? Isn't that a good government negotiating base? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I am replying: no, it is not, Mr, because the period of service actually provided was nine years and four months. Therefore, to want to count only one third of the time is to play the teachers, to try to deceive and to spread the true justice that must be implemented by this government. And it is to this justice that the Greens appeal, Minister. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u93	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment the Bureau does not record requests for speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u94	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u95	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u96	For an intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u97	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u98	Mr. President, apparently, not everyone reads and not everyone hears! [[PSD Members' laughs.]] At the end of the negotiations of the declaration of commitment, the representative who spoke from the unions that night said: « The Government wanted only seven years to be recovered». [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] Another sentence: « If it had been written nine years, four months and two days, this document would probably not be called a declaration of commitment, but agreement». [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] So that point was open. Who didn't hear you hear! [[PSD laughter]] Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Freezing without expense was what you wanted to do, but that's not what this government is doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u99	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u100	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to ask Mrs Heloísa Apolónia a question. Although you know that you have no time to answer, you have already said this so many times that I ask you the question: if the State budget has only that unilateral reading which you say... [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Mr. Member, listen to the question! If the State budget only has this unilateral reading which you say, why, half a dozen days ago, has it submitted a draft resolution to recommend to the Government to clarify what was in the State budget? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of BE and Members, of the CFP, Ana Mesquita and of The Greens, Heloísa Apollonia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u101	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u102	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government has all the instruments for the new school year to start in a climate of stability with all these problems solved and therefore there is no reason why this should not happen. Mr Minister, we already know that the new academic year in public school, at the PSD and CDS, would be the chaos that has always been while they were in government,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...because we also know that we don't have the PSD or the CDS to defend the public school. As, moreover, we did not count on the PSD or the CDS to approve the replacement of career progression and the thawing of career progression, because they voted against the State budget that approved all this. The question, Minister, is that there is an approved State budget and there are legal rules that oblige the Government to take the initiative to solve the problems. And taking the initiative to solve the problems is not taking the initiative to redefine the discussion as if there were no State budget and as if there were no such law that obliged to solve the problem in a certain way. We remember, Mr Minister, that this problem could have been solved when the State Budget was presented by the Government in the Assembly of the Republic, but it was only at the stage of the speciality. And we remember that it was resolved at the specialty stage with a discussion that made it clear that all the time of service was counted and that what it was going to do was to negotiate with all the unions — not only with the teachers' unions, but with those of all the special careers — the way and the time in which it would be paid for the remuneration valuation that results from the counting of all the time of service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u103	Really? Oh, my God! So who's lying? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u104	I will not waste any time with the semantic discussion about the contraction of the preposition "of" with the article defined "o". I am not going to make this discussion because I think it only seeks to divert attention from what is essential. And the essential thing is this: we have a State budget that determines that all the time of service provided by public administration workers is counted for the purposes of career progression and what is to be discussed is how the remuneration valuation resulting from this time of service will be paid. What's the deadline? In what way? What were you up to? What percentages? That is the debate we have to make! We are concerned, because of the answer Mr Minister gave to the direct question posed by my comrade Ana Mesquita, it is not clear that the Government has put forward any proposal on the deadline and method of payment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u105	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u106	I shall conclude, Mr President. If you have not submitted any proposals regarding the time and method of payment of this remuneration valuation, that is what the Government will have to do, in a framework of collective bargaining with the trade unions, in order to do so in the coming years. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say the following: Mr Minister, we must learn from past experience, and the experience of 2005 proves that it is not devalued teachers, it is not diabolical teachers and teaching careers nor is it disrespecting the rules — which are planned and must be fulfilled — that it contributes to improving public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u107	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u108	Mr Minister, we hope that by the beginning of next school year the Government will use the instruments at its disposal to solve all these problems,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u109	If not, what happens?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u110	... including that of specialized technicians, for the school year to start normally, because that is what serves public school, is neither instability nor lack of solution to problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u111	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, having concluded the current debate on the organization of the next academic year, careers and contests of teachers, we move on to the next item on our agenda, with the joint discussion, in general, of the bill No 131 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the Law on Local Finance and the projects of lein.o 551 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Local Finance Act ( PCP ) and 883/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the financial autonomy of municipalities and introduces judicial measures in municipal taxes ( Seventh amendment to the Financial Regime of Local Authorities and Intermunicipal Entities and 33 ). the amendment to CIMI ) ( BE ). I begin by giving the floor to Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate on the Government's proposal for a review of the Local Finance Act complements and enables the conclusion, in this legislative session, of a decisive process of State reform. It has stated decentralization as a necessity for better management of public resources, for better efficiency in service to populations. The local sector deserves it. It is distinguished by being the subsector of the Public Administration that best contributed to the evolution of public finances, with the positive balance it again had in 2017, with a debt reduction of around EUR 500 million, with the reduction of the average payment deadlines, with an increase of 39 %. This proposal for a review of the Local Finance Act corresponds to the financial dimension of the proposal for a framework law of decentralisation, which is under consideration in the Assembly of the Republic, and allows justice to local authorities, interrupting a period, which has come since 2010, in which it was not possible to comply with the Local Finance Law. With this initiative, it is ensured that, during this newly launched term of office, we will have conditions for convergence, ensuring full compliance with the Local Finance Act. The deficit in compliance — although for the first time in 2018 it was possible to transfer more resources than in 2011 — will allow the difference in the next three budgets of EUR 260 million in respect of what would result from compliance with the Law to be filled. This means that, with the approval of this bill, the municipalities and the parish will have a growth in their transfers of around EUR 65 million, plus what results from the variation in tax revenues. In addition, the financial conditions for decentralization are created with a financial fund for decentralization that will allow the transfer of the State budget to the budgets of the authorities of the amounts corresponding to the new competences, in values which, in their preliminary assessment, exceed EUR 1000 million, focusing primarily on education, health and culture. New and additional revenue is also provided for in respect of both VAT ( value added tax ) and the elimination of the general principle of State exemption in respect of IMI ( municipal property tax ). In addition, local financial management is further simplified by consolidating the return of autonomy and strengthening the financial independence arising from the standards adopted in the last three budgets. This is a bill that will enable the desire for better public management, greater efficiency of service to the people and the fulfilment of a major plan to bring Portugal closer to the most developed countries of the European Union, which are marked by a significant decentralization of the management of public resources. We are far from this European average, and in Portugal they are managed at a local level of just over 14 % of public resources. This bill enables us to achieve a significant approximation of 20 %, with a view to reaching the European average of 25 % of management of public resources at local level, with more decentralization, better public service, closer proximity and with the resources needed to ensure that the skills are exercised for the benefit of the population, with quality and effectiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u113	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my compliments. Mr Minister of Internal Administration, the Bureau records the registration of four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. First of all, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of Internal Administration, the proposed law which the Government here presents and which aims to amend Law No. 73 / 2003, of the former PSD / CDS Government, of bad memory, in addition to appearing late in the opinion of the Block, is a disappointment and is far from the expectations created, including Mr. Minister, even goes back to some matters and deserves well-founded criticisms of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ). Once again, the Local Finance Act will not be fulfilled, because, as stated in the proposal, it will only be fully implemented in 2021. On behalf of the principle of budgetary stability, we will have the interference of the central power and the establishment of a measure-work in relation to the participation of the municipalities and of the fregueries in the taxes of the State until 2021. In other words, we will continue to have brakes so that not all the resources that the authorities need are transferred, and the constitutional principle and the law itself, as I said once again, will not be fulfilled. Mr Minister, this was what the previous government, of poor memory, did, which did not transfer everything to which municipalities were entitled, which led to serious constraints in the authorities and in the parish, with much added difficulties for the population. I recall that in only four years, the PSD/CDS Government has withdrawn EUR 1500 million from the municipalities. With this new proposal, it is necessary that the ghost of non-compliance with the Local Finance Law should definitely be removed. What I ask, Minister, is the following: what led the government to come only to fully apply the Local Finance Act in 2021? Does this have to do with the decentralization agreement with the PSD? Another aspect of the Government's proposal concerns the participation of municipalities in VAT revenue, which is 5 %, Mr Minister, and which is confined only to housing, restoration, communications, electricity, water and gas rather than to affect the whole of the VAT universe. In fact, there is even a retreat from the Government itself, which in a previous proposal included trade and services establishments. After all, Mr Minister, what once again did the Government's retreat in this matter? Another measure awaited with a certain expectation, Minister, was the end of the IMI exemptions in state buildings — indeed, an emblematic measure — which now seems to reach only the devolved buildings. This position on the part of the Government is also unclear. It is also not clear that they are defined by means of corrective mechanisms of the principle of solidarity and cohesion between municipalities. Mr Minister, what corrective mechanisms are these going to be? In the opinion of the Left Block, the poorest municipalities will continue to be the most disadvantaged and the principles of solidarity and cohesion — which, in fact, the Government has advocated in its constitutional programme — are also remote. Another issue relates to compensation associated with the Municipal Cohesion Fund ( CSF ), from which the participation of 5 % in the IRS ( income tax for natural persons ) is withdrawn. It is not clear why this happens and this also deserves the rejection of the National Association of Municipalities. Mr Minister, to conclude, the Left Block does not agree with this proposal for a Local Finance Act. Why? In our view, this has to do with the agreement that the Government has made with the PSD on decentralization, where the transfer of services that should remain in the state, such as education and health, is recorded, which will certainly lead to the degradation of these services. Mr Minister, in fact, the government preferred another way by making an agreement with the PSD, and moved away from the left. That is the way of the government but that is certainly not the way of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u115	Mr President, of course, the time you have spent most of the time in relation to the normally assigned request for clarification will be discounted in the overall time of the Parliamentary Group — it is known that this is so. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Berta Cabral of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of Internal Administration, with all due consideration, I must tell you that it is incomprehensible that a government which considers the decentralization of the cornerstone of State reform has taken almost three years to present to this Parliament a proposal for a revision of the Local Finance Act, which is, of course, a fundamental part of the process of decentralization. The worst thing is that, in addition to late, this review that brings us today is a hand full of nothing, which does not like the Association of Municipalities or the autarchs in general. We are faced with a proposal which, as has already been mentioned, goes back to the application of the IMI to all state buildings, reduces the incidence base of VAT to be allocated to municipalities, in relation to that set out in the draft law, presented by the Government on the eve of the Congress of the National Association of Municipalities, does not determine the resources to be transferred by the Government to the municipalities and which is hidden behind the creation of a fund for decentralisation which is basically a fund without funds. This proposal is totally empty: it is empty for the money and for this review. It is therefore legitimate to ask : Minister, if this review does not review the financial part of the Law in order to meet the new competences, then why this proposal? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u117	This proposal does not need to exist to say that it will apply the current Law, it applies by nature, and therefore applies it to benefits by means of a new law is useless, it is indeed an achievement for the Portuguese municipalities. The PSD has been at the forefront of this process of decentralization since the first hour, as you know and have witnessed: firstly, because we have a history that is known, that is valuable and that is, indeed, the leader in this process, either in this legislature or in previous years; and secondly, because we have always been open to dialogue and because we want the best for the country. In fact, the agreement signed between the PSD, led by Dr. Rui Rio, and the Government is an example of this dialogue and of this ability and willingness to do the best for our country, based on four indissociable pillars that are not met at this time: the framework law on decentralization, sectoral diplomas, the 'financial envelopes associated with each local authority with the identification of funds per area of competence' — and I am quoting — and the review of the Local Finance Act. Mr Minister, I remind you that, at the parliamentary level, we have already requested, in June 2017, more than one year ago, support elements for decentralization, which have not been delivered to this day — we have been waiting for another year. The agreement requires the delivery of these financial envelopes, which have not yet been delivered. So, Minister, the government is failing, it can still recover, but it is failing. I should therefore ask you: is the Minister in a position to tell Parliament at the moment how much he will transfer to each municipality? Are you in a position to hand over the missing elements in this Parliament to comply with the agreement? Why did you withdraw from the application of IMI and VAT for the authorities when it was also based on the assumption that the agreement was signed, subtracting some EUR 900 million from the authorities? Oh, my God! That was important to the law of decentralization! Finally, I ask: did the Minister of Internal Administration get caught by the Minister of Finance? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u118	To request clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Internal Administration, there is here a great contradiction between what is announced and the concrete proposals contained in the bill. The government is talking about strengthening the financial capacity of the authorities, but how? Oh, my God! You can't see how that reinforcement takes place. It will certainly not be with the maintenance of the level of participation of municipalities in State taxes at 19, 5 % ; nor will it be with the postponement of the application of the increase of the participation of fregueries in State taxes ; nor will it be with the legal consecration of the non-compliance of the Law until 2021. The European Union average with regard to the participation of municipalities in state revenue is about 24 %. The Government has taken the objective of moving forward towards 19 % participation, but, in fact, with the proposal presented here, it will in very little exceed the present 14 %. There is no recovery of the lost financial capacity in the last decade, and much less there is reinforcement of this capacity for the exercise of the current framework of powers and tasks of the authorities. Mr Minister, the proposal to the Assembly of the Republic persists in disregard of the principle of fair distribution of public resources between the central administration and local authorities as well as local autonomy. Mr Minister, presenting a proposal for a local finance law to a possible transfer of competences to the authorities does not yield good results. On the proposal for a transfer of powers, although unanimously approved in the Assembly of the Republic a year ago, a request from the CFP for the Government to provide information on the financial impact of the same proposal, until today no information has been received. What is known so far is that the transfer of skills cannot result in increased public spending, so if there are areas that are underfinanced, such as education and health, underfinanced will remain. It proposes the creation of a decentralisation fund, which is not in practice a fund, because it will not contain clear rules of distribution, given the diversity of subjects in question, but rather a sum of amounts of different origin and destination. Give back to sectarian decrees, some of which, in turn, refer to gates. They continue to be unaware of the means accompanying the proposed transfer of competence and for the first time recognise that there is a debt to transfer with the new competences. Mr Minister, everything points to the following: what is under way is not a process of decentralization but rather a de-responsibility of the government and a transfer of charges to the authorities. Mr Minister, I would also like to warn you of the following: the proposed law which brings to the debate has a serious formal problem, contains a legislative authorization with a view to amending the IMI Code, Article 11. the, in violation of the provisions of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, is therefore required to expel the same article. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u120	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u121	Mr President, Minister of Internal Administration : The PSD and the Government have established an agreement on decentralization and, under that agreement, on 24 May, PSD and PS presented a joint bill establishing an independent committee for decentralization. The committee to be set up, as proposed, shall carry out a thorough assessment of the organisation of State functions and shall also evaluate and propose a programme for the deconcentration of the location of public entities and services, ensuring consistency in the presence of the State in the territory, assessing the resources and means to be transferred. This proposal also mentions that it intends to ensure a programme of auscultation and public debates with regional entities, in particular the metropolitan areas, the inter-municipal communities (CIM), the coordination and regional development committees ( CCDR ), the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias ( ANAFRE ). It also says that the studies to be presented and the hearing programme should culminate in the presentation by the independent committee for the decentralization by July 2019 of draft diplomas that will be referenced to subsequent legislative initiatives that are necessary. Mr Minister, the proposal to set up this committee is proof that the CDS was right when it stated that the process of decentralization which the Government so advocated, and intended to carry out, did not have a deep work to justify and support it. It is a matter that has not been studied, it is a matter that has not been evaluated... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u122	... is a matter on which we do not know the impacts, i.e. lack of data and elements, lack of studies and reflections on this very important matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u124	Mr Minister, the answer you have repeatedly given us on this issue is always the same, that the ball is on the side of the Assembly of the Republic. Of course, Mr President-in-Office will also say now that the creation of this committee has started on a parliamentary initiative, but if this is the answer to it — and will certainly be — then I would say that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group also mistrusts the government's work with regard to the process of decentralization and rather than wanting it to be an independent committee to deal with this issue. Is that what this is about, Minister? I appreciate your reply. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u125	To request clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u126	Mr President, Minister of Internal Administration, as already said by the Minister, decentralization is a cornerstone of State reform. That is why this is an electoral commitment of the Socialist Party and it is a commitment that is also part of the Government's programme. Strengthening decentralization has been a distinguishing mark of the governments of the Socialist Party and this reform which is under way will also be a distinguishing mark of this Government. Today we are discussing the review of the Local Finance Act. This review, as has already been said by the Minister, is not the only part of the package of measures which form part of this reform. In addition to the revision of this Act, there is the preparation of the framework law on competences for local administration where a set of new competences will be incorporated which are being built on the basis of the dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities and also the respective financial envelope which will accompany the new competences that will form part of that framework law. The Minister recently recalled that this financial envelope which will support the new powers to be transferred to the local administration will be more than EUR 1000 million. It is not enough to recognize that the municipalities and the parish are the state's best footing that provides certain public services. It is also important that the municipalities and the parish have the necessary financial resources to carry out their duties effectively, and not only those that already have but also those that will be transferred by the Government and the Assembly of the Republic. It is time to do justice to local finances and that is why this bill points out. So, Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions, first of which is whether or not it is true that this bill sets in motion a convergence process which will lead to the full participation of government authorities in State taxes in 2021, as it has not been for many years now. Oh, my God! Mr Minister, is it or is it not true that, with the application of this bill, the variation in transfers in respect of participation in State taxes by the authorities, depending on the variation in the tax revenue entered in the Stability Programme, and the convergence process I spoke about recently will lead to an increase in these transfers in 2019 and 2020, in particular of EUR 300 million for municipalities and EUR 20 million for Frequencies? Oh, my God! Is it not true that, in addition, a new revenue will arise for the authorities, which is the participation of 5 % in the VAT revenue, which will determine an increase in revenue, in this case, for the municipalities, of 45 million euros? Oh, my God! Is it true or not, as has been said recently, that the financial envelope that will sustain the new powers for local administration will be more than EUR 1000 million? Oh, my God! This is to be respected but also to do justice to local finances and to strengthen the financial resources of a state that performs more effectively its responsibilities and public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u127	To reply, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the questions you have raised, because they allow us to clarify even more clearly the essentials of this debate. After many years in which local authorities were victims of a repeated failure to comply with the Local Finance Act, the Government, for three years, has restored autonomy, restored confidence and strengthened the appropriations for the municipalities and the parish. With the State Budget for 2018, it was finally possible to have in 2018 a global volume of transfers higher than the Budget for 2011. Three years followed by restoring confidence, increasing transfers, giving autonomy to the management of European funds, the hiring, the use of debt margins. The authorities corresponded: the number of municipalities that exceeded the indebtedness limits decreased from about 80 to just over 20, with positive balances, debt reduction and, above all, capacity to respond to populations. We need to go much further, and therefore we believe in decentralization, we believe that, from education to culture, to the management of the beaches, to participation in the defense of the forest, the authorities, because closer, do better. That is why we want to implement, in accordance with the National Association of Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias, the most daring program of decentralization of our democracy. This Local Finance Act is an essential part of this process, because it establishes a model that allows you not only to know how much it is transferred in education, culture, health—and, yes, Mrs Berta Cabral, we are in a position to inform the Assembly of the amount to be transferred globally in each sector—but also how much it is transferred to each municipality. Secondly, we want to comply with the Local Finance Act. For this reason, what is envisaged in this proposal is the greatest increase in transfers to local authorities that have never been verified, either due to the variation in tax revenue, which is identified in the Stability Programme, or the fulfilment in three years of the commitment to full respect for the global level of transfers. We are also EUR 260 million below the level of transfers, of which 25 % will be transferred at least in 2019 and 2020 and finally in 2021. This means that with this bill transfers will increase by around EUR 200 million next year, combining the increase in tax revenues with the reduction of participation in the FAM ( Municipal Support Fund ), with the increase in transfers and with what will result from a new revenue framework. Finally, with regard to VAT and IMI, it makes no sense to compare what does not exist with what will be a new reality. In 2020 there will be a new revenue with a participation in VAT, which is susceptible to territorialization rather than concentration at the place where the company is based. This is justice, cohesion, decentralization and direct participation in VAT revenue. Finally, with regard to the IMI, what is at stake is to allow an instrument to promote rationalization in the management of public heritage. When the public estate is returned, it must be delivered for management to local authorities or subject to taxation. Good public management, for the benefit of the population and for development and cohesion. That's what we count on. As a specialist, we will make the necessary adjustments, in an intense work, so that this opportunity is seized, by decentralization, by the best local management. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u129	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the stage of the speeches of the parliamentary groups, and I call on Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The financial regime of local authorities is a fundamental instrument for ensuring the autonomy and financing of democratic local power. We found that subsequent amendments to the Local Finance Act have reduced the participation of authorities in government revenues. The draft law of local finances that the CFP brings to the discussion breaks with this path and meets the principles of fair distribution of public resources between central administration and authorities and administrative, financial and heritage autonomy. The draft law on local finances that we present responds to the effective strengthening of the financial capacity of the authorities, corresponding to what has been lost in recent years, to the guarantee of stability and applicability of the law, clearly defining the amounts, sources of revenue, mechanisms of evolution and forms of distribution, eliminating cyclical changes in each State budget, and is an instrument of strengthening, social and territorial cohesion, by combining the calculation of amounts and distribution criteria. in this sense, we propose the strengthening of the financial capacity of the authorities by increasing their participation in the state revenues, in the value of 31, 5 % for the municipalities and 3, 5 % for the parish, taking into account the current competences and putting an end to the inequity of the variable participation in the IRS and the assigned revenue, such as the Municipal Social Fund, including these components in the aforementioned participation. We also propose the introduction of fairer distribution criteria to ensure a redistributive function, thus contributing to social and territorial cohesion and the development of the local economy. We also propose the definition of rules regarding the relationship between central and local administration, based on assumptions of transparency in the delimitation of resources by having each of the levels of power for the exercise of its own competences, and mutual participation between the parties is not allowed. We accept, in exceptional situations provided for in the Budget Framework Act, the transfer of amounts below those provided for in the Local Finance Act, with the obligation of the Government to restore them in the following three years, accompanied by the publication annexed to the State budget of the maps with the amounts of transfers to be carried out and those of transfers in accordance with the law. We propose the existence of financial recovery mechanisms that serve to support municipalities and not to create increased difficulties or higher charges for populations. And we expound from the law a set of reports to the central administration, which greatly exceed the protection of legality, setting up an interference in local autonomy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill that the government brings to debate differs considerably from the local finance model proposed by us. From then on, associating the Local Finance Act with the so-called decentralization process does not hope for anything good and only serves the purpose of trying to hide the underfinancing to which the authorities have been subject. Only between 2007 and 2018, for failure to comply with the Local Finance Act, were withdrawn to the authorities of about EUR 3500 million. in this debate, the priority is to ensure the financial framework for the implementation of the current responsibilities of the authorities. In fact, the Government's proposal, despite incorporating rules of positive meaning already contained in the State budget, as well as the repeal of the GEF, essentially does not address the main financing problems of the authorities, by not seeking to recover the lost financial capacity and by giving force to law enforcement of the Local Finance Act, assuming that it is not to be fulfilled in the next three years. It is unacceptable for the Government to postpone compliance with the Local Finance Act, which is pumping itself to, and I quote, "convergence mechanism to ensure compliance with the Local Finance Act". In its proposal, it refers to the exception to compliance with the existence of procedures relating to macroeconomic imbalances or procedures due to excessive deficits, then providing for rules to prolong these effects, thus initiating the application of the law not applying it, in contexts where the country is not in any of these situations. There is no justification for non-compliance other than by the government's political option. In addition, the fact that municipalities remain involved in State taxes by 19, 5 %, while reducing their base of incidence, by withdrawing the funds corresponding to the new participation in VAT and the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security. With regard to the parish, the Government proposes to increase from 2 % to 2, 5 %, which alone is insufficient, but is further aggravated by the postponement of its full application. In addition, it introduces mechanisms that, instead of contributing to a fair territorial redistribution, aggravate existing asymmetries such as the new participation in VAT. More: it deepens a financing model based on a local tax and territorial competitiveness logic, which in no way contributes to social and territorial cohesion. It also introduces rules aimed at transforming the authorities into instruments for the implementation of the powers of the Government, contributing to the confusion of those with competence and for what. There are also other negative aspects in the proposed law, such as the provision of revenue from prices, the possibility of the CIMs to collect taxes and the government to collect municipal charges and charges, the persistence of reporting and information to the central administration and the replacement of standards for monitoring and monitoring staff costs, in violation of local autonomy. In short, the proposal for a government law does not go through a remedy, when what the situation requires is a new model for financing local authorities, as the CFP proposes. Transfers of funds to the authorities are neither a burden on the State nor a result of its goodwill, but rather a constitutional plan for the government to comply with the constitutional principles. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u131	Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u132	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: As part of the discussion of proposals for a new Local Finance Act, the Left Block Parliamentary Group presents a bill aimed at strengthening the financial autonomy of municipalities and introducing measures in municipal taxes. The draft law of the Left Block is based on three fundamental assumptions: the possibility of applying the principle of progressiveity, when the municipality excludes its variable participation in the IRS; the introduction of differentiated treatment in the taxation of buildings intended to inhabit the family's own and permanent aggregate; and the possibility of the municipal deliberative bodies to decide on the cessation of the sanitation and financial adjustment plans, when the municipality fulfils the legal limit of indebtedness, and not only on the suspension of those plans. In the first case, it is to comply with the constitutional precept of the principle of progressive IRS, which is distorted by the mechanisms of variable participation of municipalities in this tax. in this conformity, by establishing, equally for all, the return of part of the collection of the IRS, progressiveity does not exist, ending to benefit all those who take higher incomes. Thus, according to our proposal, municipal chambers, through the deliberations of the municipal assembly, may establish different percentages of variable participation in the IRS — different according to the general rate applicable to each other — respecting the principles of contribution capacity and progressiveness. In the second case, it considers the Left Block that the own and permanent housing of the family must have a tax other than that of the other buildings. This differentiated taxation should not take account only of the number of dependents, before, should be applied to all those who own their own and permanent housing. However, this reduction in IMI should be limited, not providing for high-value dwellings such as buildings not intended for the first housing, holiday houses and lease buildings, which would distort the constitutional principles of taxation of the estate. Thus, in our opinion, a percentage of 0 % to 0, 25 % will be applied on urban buildings for own and permanent housing and the value of which is not more than 400 guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration and a percentage of 0, 3 % to 0, 5 % on the remaining urban buildings and which exceed the previous value. Finally, another proposal we put forward here is that the adjustment and financial rebalancing plans cease by deliberation of the municipal council from the time of the full settlement of the loan granted by the State or from the date of verification of compliance with the total indebtedness limit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u133	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u134	Finally, Mr President, what we are presenting here is advanced proposals of undeniable social justice, which strengthen the autonomy of the municipalities and meet the constitutional imperatives. Our challenge is that these proposals are approved by the other parliamentary groups. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u135	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u136	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The autonomy of local power, its financing and the close relationship with the state have been, over the last decades, a desire for autarchs, populations and political parties, a desire for objective responses to the needs of the territories and for the realization of social policies that mitigate regional asymmetries, promoting equal opportunities for all citizens. The importance of local power in the country's economic growth and the increase in social and territorial cohesion is recognized. This objective is shared by all political forces, from right to left to right. There is no doubt in our minds: the reform of the State and the process of decentralization of competences for local authorities and inter-municipal authorities have been taken over by the current government as a priority for the strengthening of local autonomy. In order to have a strong and modern state, we need structural reforms, simplifying procedures, agreeing decisions and achieving greater effectiveness in public investment. Local authorities are the link between the state and citizens. Being the basis of the public service, they are also assumed as pivots of the ambitious state reform. The amendment of the local finance regime we are discussing today is a fundamental instrument for the implementation of the constitutional principle of subsidiarity and for the implementation of the process of decentralization, with the consequent strengthening of the competences of municipalities and the parish. With the adoption of this bill, the Government will initiate, through the State Budget for 2019, a mechanism of gradual convergence which will achieve compliance with the Local Finance Act at the end of the next three years. The municipalities and the parish will receive more 64 million in 2019, another 64 million in 2020 and more 97 million in 2021. Strictly, in a sustained manner and without jeopardizing the balance of public accounts, the Local Finance Act will comply. Under this law Portugal will also receive a fund for financing decentralization, which under the new Article 30. o -A, provided for in the proposal, will support the financing of the new powers of the local authorities, thus fulfilling the strengthening of the autonomy of the local authority. At the same time, the Government of the Socialist Party intends to carry out a review of the model of participation of municipalities in the revenues of state taxes, of direct participation in the revenues generated in the municipality and of the collection of local taxes and taxes in areas of municipal competence. It is also necessary to refer to the proposal for legislative authorisation to amend the IMI Code and to remove the exemptions from this tax granted to public property without use, by revising their fees. It is estimated that with the convergence and revision rule of the IMI to be included in the State budgets it will be transferred to the local administration — chambers and joints — as early as 2019, an amount of EUR 2900 million, EUR 3000 million in 2020 and EUR 3200 million in 2021. I should like to end by congratulating the Government on this proposal, which makes several changes in terms of funding, to achieve the autonomy of local authorities and to strengthen the promotion of social and territorial cohesion through the establishment of mechanisms for balancing and financing the authorities. The Socialist Party and the Government thus honour their commitments and implement one of the most important reforms of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u137	Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u138	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Remembering Lampedusa, it is not enough to do something to change something. I have been educated, we have probably all been educated, even the younger ones, to discuss matters related to the decentralization of competences of the central State to the entities closest to the citizens, the authorities. We were politically educated to discuss the dichotomy between the coast and the interior and all matters related to territorial cohesion. That is why this discussion is too important and cannot be wasted. Portuguese have high expectations that the process of decentralization is a success and has high expectations for improving public services, in closer proximity between the state and citizens. That's why the PSD is in this process. In addition, much of the authorships of our country also have great expectations regarding the success of this process, and we cannot disappoint these expectations. Mr Minister, the Government has to respect the commitments it has made and has an obligation to comply with them. The first pillar of the agreement concluded between the Government and the PSD — the transfer of competences to local authorities — assumes that this reform is approved at this Legislative Session, composed formally and politically, by the framework law, complemented by sectoral decrees, by the revision of the Local Finance Act and also by the respective financial envelopes associated with each of the authorities. This means that the three pillars, or four, depending on the perspective, concluded between the government and the PSD must be decided simultaneously. It is also stressed that they are not agreed with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities all the sectoral regulatory decrees and the financial envelopes are not yet known. The Minister must ensure, as soon as possible, the presentation of the associated financial envelopes so that this whole process of decentralization can work. The initiative we are discussing today does not yet meet the promise and needs to be greatly improved, because it does not strengthen local autonomy and does not strengthen territorial cohesion, by extending the labour standard, for example, from 5 % to 10 %, and by withdrawing the contribution of the IRS to the Social Fund, which means that much of the municipalities may be affected by this measure. This initiative does not meet what was promised: the IMI is going to have a different framework than was announced, and it was included in the preliminary draft of this bill, and only the devolved property of the State is going to pay IMI, the remaining ones will remain exempt, and this is not what was promised; it lowers the incidence of VAT eligible to 5 %, and it was initially estimated that this money could reach about 750 million euros a year and now it is only EUR 46 million; the same principle must also be applied to the revenue resulting from the end of the IMI exemption to state real estate, and in this regard the government has lowered its impact base, only including state-owned real estate, which implies a loss of revenue, estimated at EUR 200 million. Mr Minister, the PSD is and continues to be in good faith in this discussion, so it is hoped that this process will move forward, and we too will be very committed to helping that happen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u139	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we discuss here in this Parliament the initiatives of the Government and the various parties on decentralisation on 15 March 2017, the CDS stated that it was therefore in favour of a process of decentralization of competence for local authorities, provided that all means — technical, personnel and funding — for the fulfilment of these functions by the authorities are ensured. Thus, and as the opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities on this initiative of the Government, the process of decentralization involves three fundamental and complementary pieces: the framework law; the sectoral diplomas and the Local Finance Act. Each of these fundamental pieces must be discussed, studied and developed simultaneously. However, this process has been developed by the government and without being preceded by an in-depth analysis and studies which the issue can only raise. What we have verified, with the presentation of this Government proposal on local finances, are the same failures and failures, i.e. this initiative has not been accompanied by any studies, documents and opinions which have substantiated it or by any previous analysis of its impact, which is very important for a more comprehensive and thorough analysis of it. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of the legislature, in December 2015 the government announced the end of austerity, but this announced end did not reach the local authorities. Despite the current situation, both national and international, and the process of decentralisation which the Government says it wants to achieve, the fact is that the various State budgets already submitted by the PS Government do not comply with the Local Finance Act with regard to the allocation of financial resources between the State, the authorities and the inter-municipal entities, and the Government does not plan to comply with it in the coming year. On the other hand, we do not understand the option of the Government — and we do not agree with it directly — to withdraw from the Municipal Cohesion Fund the participation of 5 % of the IRS. In fact, at a time when territorial cohesion is essential for the development of the country, mainly from the interior, constituting the local authorities an essential vehicle for the fulfilment of this design and repeatedly affirming the Government that decentralization of competences for municipalities is essential for true social and territorial cohesion, the fact is that proposals such as this do not appear to be consistent with that cohesion, and may eventually come to win even more the internal/ coast dichotomy, not creating the conditions necessary for the authorities located in the less developed regions of the country to effectively exercise new competences and develop themselves. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: After months of waiting for the Government's proposal on local finances, what do we have? We have a great deal of this proposal on the draft which the Government has put forward, and this retreat necessarily means the loss of many million revenue for the authorities. We find no justification for the Government's withdrawal from the promised end of the IMI exemption from state buildings, now reduced in the bill to returned buildings, but mainly to the huge reduction in the participation of municipalities in locally generated VAT. In fact, in addition to the transfer only in 2021, three years from now, the new Article 26. o -A, as provided for in the proposal for a law, proposes a share in VAT revenue of only 5 % in respect of VAT charged on certain essential services, such as electricity, water, gas and communications, and in the housing and catering sectors. A final word for the so-called « decentralisation fund ». It refers to the bill which, and I quote, « constitutes a financial transfer of the State budget with a view to financing the new powers of local authorities and inter-municipal authorities arising from the Framework Law on Decentralisation ». It doesn't mean anything else at all. As the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities itself criticizes, and I quote, «the terms in which it will be created, implemented, distributed and articulated with the currently existing means are unknown». Minister, this is a lot of park. A reform of this nature and importance deserved another treatment by the Government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u141	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u142	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: First of all, I would like to greet, in a special way, ANAFRE, in the person of its President, Pedro Cegonho. For us, the PS Parliamentary Group, the Local Finance Act and this deep review which is presented today constitute a backbone for the reform of decentralization and can only deserve the support of this Parliamentary Group. Since the beginning of this process we have been available to all to receive all contributions and improvements to the process, either for the framework law or now for the Local Finance Act. In addition, this Parliamentary Group will present its own proposals with a view to better adapting the convergence process towards full compliance with the Local Finance Act. We will also submit proposals to replace Article 11. the draft law for the purpose of amending the IMI Code and the Statute for Tax Benefits. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this review of the Local Finance Act points to us - five major important ways: firstly, that of convergence with the average of Europe in public revenue, fulfilling the Local Finance Act; secondly, that of realisation of decentralization, with a new funding for new competences - more than EUR 1 billion in the fund of decentralization; thirdly, that of responsibility for the full exercise of these powers with additional revenue that add to this financial package, at the level of IMI and VAT; fourthly, that of the fulfilment of the constitutional principle of subsidiarity - whether or not we want to comply with the Constitution? Oh, my God! — this is a reform with full constitutional mandate; fifth, that of stability, predictability that during the convergence period no one will lose, on the contrary. These are five very important ways of making it possible for us to gain obvious gains from 2019 : plus 125 million resulting from growth with the evolution of tax revenues; growth aligned with this development as provided for in the Stability Programme ; plus 105 million resulting from the convergence process in accordance with Article 5. the Law, paragraph 6 ( a ), provided for in the bill ; and minus 12 million effort for municipalities under the Municipal Support Fund. All these contributions and all these reinforcements over 2019 are significant contributions, are significant gains so that this reform and this Local Finance Act can also advance the process of decentralization. We believe, as since the first day, that, with the framework law, with the new Local Finance Law and with the 20 sectoral decrees, we will have conditions and we will have all the pieces, all the links of a reformist current of development,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u143	You want to do the right thing to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u144	...so that Portugal ceases to be one of the most centralist countries in Europe, one of the countries that crystallizes most inequalities and departs from the socially justest countries. With this reform and with all these pieces, surely we will again be on the right path, at the service of Portugal, at the service of all Portuguese and all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u145	The floor is now also for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Manuel Frexes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u146	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The bill that we are discussing today, which amends the Law on Local Finance, is very short of the expectations created and, to this extent, is a deep disappointment, evidenced in the opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, with regard to several very important matters, which have been underlined here by all parliamentary groups and which have a negative impact, making it difficult for the financial autonomy of the municipalities to be strengthened and decentralization to be a reality. In fact, in principle, what Mr Minister came here to say to this Parliament, speaking in the 200 million and increasing revenue, is that he would give the authorities what they already have right in the current Law. That, Minister, leaves us very disappointed! It is therefore imperative that the government correct this path. Thus, the Government has the opportunity to correct its proposal for a law until the end of this Legislative Session in the field of debate. in this same period, the government will have to ensure the sectoral diplomas, which consist of the competences to transfer, and at the same time proceed to calculate the financial envelopes to be transferred, municipality to municipality. But you will have to do so in a serious way, i.e. not only deliver anything, you have to deliver acceptable documents and accounts. Well, Mr Minister, for decentralization to be a reality — the cornerstone of state reform, as you so much like to proclaim — it is imperative to work well and quickly, while the government is still ahead, and to promote the fulfilment of these conditions sine qua no.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u147	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u148	I will now finish, Mr President. We want to believe that the government will do everything to respect the agreement. If you fail, the Portuguese will not forgive another missed opportunity, especially after the total commitment that the PSD put in this process and the good faith with which you signed the agreement reached. Here's our alert...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u149	Thank you for finishing, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u150	I'm done now, Mr. President. Here is our warning: on our part, and in the name of the national interest, we will do everything so that, this time, they will not fail to comply with the maximum they so much like to boast, i.e., "the word given, the word honored! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u151	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor for one last speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We bear in mind who have been responsible for the various decades and successive governments that have contributed to the reduction of the participation of government authorities in government taxes. We're talking about PS governments, PSD governments and the CDS. But we also bear in mind that it was the attack of the PSD and the CDS, in a way deeply unacceptable and exceeding any democratic principle, the financial autonomy of the authorities and the administrative autonomy of the democratic local power. Therefore, Mr Minister, what was important at the moment, in view of this context, was that we were discussing a local finance law as proposed by the CFP here, taking into account the current competences, and that not only restores the lost financial capacity but also effectively strengthens the ability of the authorities to intervene in the current competence framework. We regret that on the Government's part this has not been the subject of debate in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u153	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u154	I shall conclude by saying that the CFP is, in fact, the party that brings the debate to the proposal that breaks with the past, is the party that brings the proposal that strengthens the financial capacity of the authorities, it is the party that brings the proposal that meets the constitutional principles and contributes to territorial cohesion. Therefore, if we want to move forward with a view to responding to the problems faced by the authorities, the parish and the municipalities, in fact, the proposal that gives this answer, which is not a remedy and which proposes a new model of funding, is that of the CFP. We all challenge to move forward in this direction, as proposed by the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u155	To close this agenda item, for an intervention, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, I am even more motivated here, realizing that we have a historic opportunity that is at the hands of all Members of the House and of all Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The result of this debate is that all banks have made solemn declarations of attachment to the fundamental importance of decentralization for a better defence of the public interest, in order to comply with the Constitution. Secondly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u157	I wanted to ask you to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u158	... we all agree that it is necessary, firstly, to comply with the current Local Finance Act, which has not been met since 2010 — this Act guarantees conditions for this — and, secondly, to create the financial framework for the exercise of new expanded competences.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u159	You really have to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u160	It is about the specialized work on the framework law, on this bill, on the sectoral diplomas and its incidence in each municipality that we are going to actively discuss in the coming weeks. We have to be up to expectations not of the authorships, but of the Portuguese so that we have a fairer, more cohesive, more decentralized country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u161	We move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No 134 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 151 / 2015 of 11 September 2015 recalibrating the full production of effects of the Budget Framework Act. To begin the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law that the Government submits to the Assembly of the Republic aims to reschedule the production of effects of the new Budgetary Framework Act ( LEO ). at this stage, no amendment to the Act itself is proposed, only the postponement of the production of effects of an important part of the new Budget Framework Act concerning matters which need to be completed in the ongoing implementation work. The provisions which do not depend on the implementation work that is in force, as expected, will enter into force in September this year. The remaining part will enter into force from 2020 and the entire process of drawing up the 2021 Budget will follow the rules of this new Law. The need for a postponement of the new Budget Framework Act proposed by the Government had already been put forward at the beginning of this year, in particular in the COFMA ( Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation ), with the generality of the parliamentary groups understood the complexity of this process and the reasons underlying the need for legislative intervention. In fact, the full implementation of the new Budgetary Framework Act presupposes the development of new central information systems, as well as the creation of a new State Accounting Entity ( ECE ), which implies the involvement and adaptation of the information systems of various public administration entities and in particular the Ministry of Finance. International practice shows that the implementation of financial reforms in this area, similar to the one we seek to introduce in Portugal, takes on average five years, longer than the three-year period foreseen in 2015 when the new Budget Framework Act was adopted. Thus, in view of the complexity of the work of implementing the new Law, international experience recommends that the production of important effects of the new Budget Framework Act with a more realistic deadline, as proposed by the Government, should be rescheduled. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u163	Mr Secretary of State, the Bureau records the inclusion of Mr Paulo Sá of the CFP to request clarification, to whom I give the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, the Budget Framework Act, adopted in mid-2015, provides for the implementation of the State Accounting Entity and that the State Budget(OE) and the General State Account (CGE) contain consolidated budgetary and financial statements for the subsectors of central administration and social security drawn up in accordance with the new accounting reference, included in the System of Accounting Standardization for Public Administrations (SNC-AP ). The adoption of this accounting system would improve public financial management and enhance the transparency and quality of accounting information in the State budget and in the General State Account, objectives which the CFP naturally accompanies. The former PSD/CDS Government established a transitional period for this new accounting framework of only three years. It is an unquestionable fact that such a short transition period is completely unrealistic, and it is clear from the outset that it could not be fulfilled. Such a circumstance apparently did not bother the previous Government. Whoever comes after you undress your boot! But if it is true that three years were clearly insufficient, it is no less true that the current government has left the process to be dragged, not taking the necessary measures in a timely manner either from the point of view of legislative amendments, or from the point of view of adjusting computer systems for the implementation of the new System of Accounting Standardization and the State Accounting Entity. Mr Secretary of State, how does it justify that the Government has not taken these measures in a timely manner, but that essential stages of the transition process are still lacking, identified in a recent audit of the Court of Auditors? Mr Secretary of State, what assurances can you give that significant temporary spills will not continue to be verified and that the new deadline, contained in the proposed law today under discussion, will be fulfilled? In view of the much still to be done, is it expected that the Budget Framework Act will have effects on the State budget for 2021? Or are we facing a new unrealistic deadline? Finally, Mr. Secretary of State, I refer to the question of the cost of implementing the new System of Accounting Standardization for Public Administrations. in a recent audit, the Court of Auditors notes that expenditure currently only with the adjustment of information systems amounts to EUR 55 million, which will certainly be much higher if all other costs are considered, in particular those associated with human resources. So, Mr Secretary of State, I also ask you what total cost the Government estimates for the full implementation of the Budget Framework Act. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u165	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u166	Mr President, honourable Member, on the questions raised, I would like to point out that we agree that the initial deadline set for 2015 was a very ambitious and unrealistic deadline. International experience thus confirms this and the opinion of the Court of Auditors is also in this regard. the analysis that we did to the other countries that sought to implement equivalent reforms, the majority took between four and seven years, so we requested an average period of about five years for the implementation of the new Law. Linked to that time too ambitious, the start of the implementation of the new Law had associated the transition to a new Government, which also required more significant initial work at that stage. We are confident that, with the knowledge that we have at this time and with the work in progress, we will be able, within two years, to prepare the Budget for 2021, to work in accordance with the new Budget Framework Act. This assessment stems not only from the work we are in progress but also from the knowledge we have gained about the requirements associated with the implementation of the new Budget Framework Act. In relation to the cost, the value you have referred to is not very different from the value that we are currently present. We know it will cost some tens of millions of euros. at this stage, and it is difficult to have an exact and precise value already, because only as it is being implemented is that a more accurate evaluation of costs can be made. But it will certainly be in a few tens of millions of euros. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u167	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers. I wonder if any parliamentary group is interested in intervening because, if there are no more entries, we will move to the next item on the agenda. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mr Duarte Pacheco of the PSD has written to whom I give the floor for an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Concern about the reliability and transparency of public accounts is old, but it has gained particular importance in Portuguese society after the financial crisis of the State caused by the socialist government led by Eng. Socrates and which led to bankruptcy in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u170	After the difficult time, in good time, the PSD/CDS Government has produced a change to the Budget Framework Act in a process that is involved and with consensual objectives, as seen today in this debate, in particular by seeking to improve the transparency of public finances, provide new tools for managing public resources and improve managers' accountability, increase the scope of public finance indicators, in order to better assess the quality of financial options, and create a results-oriented management model. Of course, there was the perception that this was a complex process, which needed time to be applied. But we also know it's in the Portuguese DNA working under pressure! Thus, the PSD/CDS Government provided three years for the full implementation of all these amendments, i.e. by September 2018. This despite the Coordinator of the study, who is today an illustrious member of this government, has proposed two years, a time limit which he found realistic and sufficient for the implementation of this Law. over the almost three years of the current government, we were all aware that little or no attention was given to this matter. We might even ask: Why? Are you afraid of rigor? Are you afraid of transparency? Do you want to run away from greater budgetary control? We cannot and do not want to believe that these are the reasons for this delay. The delay in applying the new Law may not only be due to ignorance and incompetence, there must be another reason. I give an example: the task of ensuring the implementation of LEO was entrusted to an entity created simultaneously with the approval of the Law, but this government only regulated it one year ago. Consequently, the overall nature of the projects is still being implemented not only because of the delay already mentioned, but also because of the lack of human resources allocation. There are diplomas on the financial architecture of the State which are to be reviewed, there is no information on the actual state of application of the SNC by public authorities. It is no wonder, and I shall conclude, Mr President, that, in view of this reality, the Government will be asking for two more years to do what it has not achieved in the last three years! by delaying the full application of the Budget Framework Act to the next Parliament, the Government is recognizing its failure, its inability, perhaps its fear of rigor and transparency. In practice, the Government is assuming that we are also facing a lost legislation in this area, because reforming and allowing reliable and timely follow-up of the evolution of public expenditure aggregates have not remained in the past, nor, even with much makeup, today remain with the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u171	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the rigour of accounts is something important and, perhaps, we should start by saying that this government is not three years old, it is two and a half years old! I would like to draw attention to the fact that this Law had been passed at the end of a legislative term and, of course, the process, moreover, extended, of change of government at the time — it was necessary to install the new one — which was largely justified by this delay. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the delay is not one or two years, it really takes almost 20 years to delay. And it takes almost 20 years to delay because these concerns, which remained in the Diário da República, on 11 September 2015, in the new LEO, largely already included Law No 91 / 2001. In other words, the concern that there was budgeting for programmes in order to measure the effectiveness of public expenditure; the concern about the control of multi-annual expenditure; the concern that there was a good accounting programme that would allow management instruments for public expenditure all existed in 2001 and we can say that by 2015 Portuguese public accounting continued to have essentially the same shortcomings. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on these matters, the main thing is not to publish a nice budget framework law. What is difficult is to implement a budgetary framework law in reality of public accounting. This was a difficult task and, as it is almost universally recognized, the deadline granted by the Law was a time limit when the Assembly of the Republic was, let us say, volunteer, if we compare the deadlines that these processes had in other European countries. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for the Budget, it seems to us that, with this bill, in the fifth budgetary procedure, which will be the year 2020 following the entry into force of the original law of 2015, we will have all the diplomas in force, we will have the budget for programmes in the Assembly of the Republic and still in this Parliament, which is what is necessary for the fulfilment of this timetable. The PS is comfortable with this proposal and will continue to have as priority the follow-up of the practical implementation to be made by the Government, translating this concern of the Assembly of the Republic into the Working Group set up within the Committee on Budgets and Finance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u173	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Budget Framework Act is extremely important, but unfortunately, because of its technical nature, it does not allow, from a political point of view, a discussion and a deepening that accompanies the importance that it effectively has, either in the budgetary process, or in the quality of information relating to public accounts and the capacity that we may or may not have to analyse that information. Perhaps that is why and because of its eminently technical character, of the difficulty of practical transposition of the principles set out in the Law, it is a Law that, over the years, regardless of each revision, has accumulated frustrations. That is, the objectives of the Budget Framework Act and the objectives of each revision are frustrated, regardless of the governments that have been in office. This should, however, call for a reflection on the fact that, for example, budgetary programmes have always existed in the Law, exist formally in the laws of the State budget, but in practice there are no truly effective budgetary programmes on budgetary policy and, above all, on budgetary management in Portugal. The same is true of the multi-annuality of expenditure. We can formally have these types of mechanisms, but what we know is that over the course of this time, more than 20 years, as Mr Rocha Andrade said — and this was evident in the hearings which the Working Group did — we do not, for example, solve constitutional issues that arise in relation to the possibility or not to make multiannual expenditure budgets and whether or not we are limiting a sovereign power, which Parliament has every year when it approves the State Budget Act, to define the expenditure for that year and not to be able to define the expenditure for that year, because it would obviously be limiting the power that the Assembly of the Republic has in the following years. Therefore, we continue to discuss budgetary framework laws without looking at these problems. What we believe is that, at this particular moment, the government is asking for an extension of time and that it has not acted diligently. If the deadline was excessively optimistic, this should have been ascertained immediately, should have been analyzed immediately, should have had a re-scheduled at the beginning and not beyond the middle of the legislature — three or two years and a half is indifferent to considering that it is more than half the legislature. And now we are at the last opportunity, before the first presentation of the State budget, at the beginning of October, to postpone deadlines for the government not to engage in illegality by presenting the State budget proposal on 15 October when it had to be done, if the law had to apply at the beginning of that month. Therefore, for us this is insufficient, it does not solve the problems, it is not timely and it is only intended that the Government, having failed to do everything previously said to restore the process to those who should be their terms, does not irregularly comply with the presentation of the State budget for 2019. For us there is little justification and therefore we will not follow this bill. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u175	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are obvious delays in the implementation of the new Budget Framework Act. It is obvious that we should have started earlier, walked faster, and the ideal would be that the next budget proposal would enter as early as 1 October 2018, with all the planned changes, among them the much-expected programme budgeting. The truth is that this did not happen, the truth is that the process is complex, the truth is that the deadlines were short and the truth is that it is better to reassess as long as it is time than, to precipitate the entry into force of a law that is not ready and cannot be put into practice effectively. Therefore, if the process has not been made in time or if it could not have been done in time, it is better to reassess the deadlines, provided that the entry into force is not delayed or this new strike is used to go forward eternally decisions that have practical consequences and, of course, it is also necessary to ensure that this whole process has political control and scrutiny, especially political, by the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u177	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has been said here that the period originally proposed by the former PSD/CDS Government was optimistic or ambitious. from our point of view, he was completely unrealistic and there was no condition to implement this Law in three years. It was an irresponsibility of the former Government to propose such a short deadline. The government is asking for a delay of two more years. We follow this request from the Government, but we leave a warning: the Government needs to be more diligent in preparing all the instruments necessary for the implementation of this Law. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u179	Mrs. Members, this concludes the discussion of the third item on the agenda. We move on to the fourth point, with the assessment of the 2016 State General Account. To open the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Secretary of State of the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the General Account of the State of 2016 and the implementation of the State Budget of 2016, I would like to highlight the achievement of the budgetary objectives, without amending budgets for the first time in many years, reaching the lowest budget deficit of democracy. But as much or more important is that this reduction in the budget deficit has been achieved in a framework of reintroduction of income, increased confidence in the economy and full respect for the Constitution. I highlight some of the measures in this Budget: the reduction of taxes, with the beginning of the elimination of the overtax in 2016 and with its subsequent conclusion in 2017; the reduction of the VAT of the restoration from 23 % to 13 %; the replacement of public service wages and the increase in the minimum wage; the replacement and increase in social benefits; and the thawing of the increase in pensions. The replacement of income within a framework of respect for the budgetary objectives was decisive for the very significant increase of confidence in the economy and families and for the relaunch of a new phase of growth of the Portuguese economy. I would also like to mention the implementation of several recommendations of the Court of Auditors, as described in the Court of Auditors report.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u181	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: In its opinion, the Court of Auditors reiterates multiple shortcomings and irregularities in the presentation of the General State Account, including disrespect for budgetary principles, non-compliance with legal provisions and inadequate accounting and control systems. Year after year, the Court of Auditors notes shortcomings and irregularities in the General State Account and makes dozens of recommendations for its resolution. Year after year, successive governments only partially implement these recommendations, and even so late, they continue to present general accounts of the State with deficiencies and irregularities. This is a situation that must be overcome, and the Government must make a serious effort to implement in a timely manner all the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, presenting general accounts of the State which accurately and transparently translate budgetary reality. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The year 2016 was the year when the most serious measures of the previous PSD / CDS government began to be reversed. In the previous four years, the pretext for reducing the deficit and debt, supported by the large capital and by the institutions of the European Union, PSD and CDS have carried out a comprehensive programme of confiscating the income of workers and pensioners, of liquidation of labour and social rights, of dismantling the social functions of the State and public services, of delivering national strategic enterprises to large capital. In view of the scale of the economic and social catastrophe resulting from its policy of exploitation and impoverishment, PSD and CDS have tried to justify themselves invoking the theory of inevitability. Allegedly, the measures that infernated the lives of workers and the people would be inevitable: there was no alternative to the cuts in wages and pensions, the closure of public services, the increase in the tax burden on labour income or the degradation of the National Health Service and the public school. Today, there is no doubt that the policy of exploitation and impoverishment of the PSD and CDS was not inevitable, it was an option of these two parties. In the new phase of national political life, resulting from the October 2015 legislative elections, with the decisive contribution of the CFP, rights and income replacement measures were adopted, responding to the most urgent problems of workers and the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u184	The State budget for 2016 restored the wages of the employees of the Public Administration, frozen pensions and strengthened the supplementary solidarity for the elderly, reduced the moderate rates, increased the family allowance and social income of insertion, consecrated the free of charge of school textbooks, eliminated the overtax of IRS for the lowest income contributors, reduced the VAT of the restoration, among several other positive sign measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u186	Faced with the replacement of rights and income, PSD and CDS, denying reality, desperate, predicted that the reversal of their exploitation and impoverishment measures would lead the country to bankruptcy, even announcing the coming of the devil. But the devil did not arrive and the measures for the replacement of rights and income have made a decisive contribution to economic growth and job creation, confirming the fairness of the CFP position, which has always stated that the path of progress and development of the country must be that of valuing work and workers. We must not forget that in 2016 the European Commission launched an unacceptable operation of blackmail, pressure and interference against our country, trying at all costs to prevent the implementation of measures to replace rights and income. alongside the European Commission, against the interests of Portugal and the Portuguese, PSD and CDS were placed, chorusing with those who from Brussels sought to prevent, even though shy, reversal of the course followed in previous years. The appreciation of the positive measures contained in the State budget for 2016 does not preclude the fact that these measures have fallen short of what was possible and desirable due to the fact that the PS and its Government assume the constraints and conditionalities imposed by the European Union. It is also clear from the fact that the Government has used and abused captivating to speed up the budget deficit, an option which has made it possible for the State bodies of the human, material and financial resources appropriate to their normal functioning and to improve the services provided to the people. The State budget for 2016, as well as the following two budgets, confirm that in order to pursue and deepen the policy of restoration of rights and incomes, in order to improve public services and the social functions of the State, in order to respond to the structural problems of the country and its multiple deficits it is necessary to break with external taxation and conditionalism and with the promotion of large capital. [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u187	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u188	That's the way that needs to be taken. That's the way the country needs! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak to someone else, but there are no entries and, if so, we move on to the next point. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Trigo Pereira has signed up in the meantime. I hope that the other parliamentary groups will take steps to register. You have the floor, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, of the PS, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to apologize for my voice, because it is due to an exogenous factor. We are discussing the 2016 State General Account and it is worth questioning why. Why is the General State Account appreciated in this House? Since the State's accounts are the result of the budgetary implementation of the year, a first reason is to see whether they are reliable and whether there has been a positive change in the accounts of the State and social security; a second reason—and because there are always improvements to be implemented in the budgetary process—is to see to what extent relevant recommendations from the Court of Auditors' opinion have been implemented, and if not to know why; finally, the assessment of the accounts allows contextualize the challenges facing the country. Before addressing these issues, I make an introductory note. The year 2016, like any post-election year, was atypical because, having had elections in 2015, began with the application of twelfths on the basis of the previous budget and only with the entry into force of the 2016 State Budget, on 1 April, if it began to run. We then had the situation of the PSD Government / CDS-PP, the XIX Constitutional Government, not to have begun the preparatory work of the 2016 State Budget before the elections, which means that the XXI Constitutional Government, of the PS, executed for months what was contained in the 2015 Budget, which did not elaborate. Does this make sense? Doesn't look like it. Does this help to appreciate the accounts of 2016? No, no, no. Could this be avoidable? Yeah. It would be enough to anticipate the regular date of elections, which should normally be between 15 September and 15 October. This period—it is important to remember! — does not allow the normal deadline for the delivery of the budget in electoral years or the European Semester to be met. I leave this introductory topic for general evaluation of this House. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Have the State and social security accounts improved this year? This is the question and the answer can only be positive. The PS government has changed the nature of budgetary policy and this has resulted in the return of labour income. The economy grew, unemployment fell from 12, 4 % in 2015 to 11, 1 % in 2016. Perhaps this is one of the greatest successes of this fiscal year. Obviously, this has an impact on public accounts. Despite the increase in gross debt weight, the weight of net debt of deposits — the most relevant variable — decreased and began for the first time a downward trajectory of 118, 6 % of GDP (gross domestic product) to 117, 8 %. It has already been said here by Mr. Secretary of State, but it is important to remember: the year 2016 was, until today, the year of the lowest deficit in democracy. Is this important? It's very important. Avoiding excessive debts is fighting for intergenerational justice. This low deficit in Portugal contributed to the country leaving the excessive deficit procedure and gaining a reputation in international markets, which, as we know, has meant that the interest rates at which we finance ourselves are increasingly low. Before we finish, there are two points I'd like to highlight. The policy of dignity of those serving the State had a translation into the accounts of 2016 and now in 2017. Staff expenditure increased significantly by 4 to 1 % if we consider product growth, inflation rate and partial elimination of pay cuts in public service. If we combine to this the gradual elimination of the overtax of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) for all taxpayers, we can only conclude that there was an increase in the net income of workers in public service in 2016. Those serving the State saw the improvement of their remuneration conditions in 2016 and, we can add, in subsequent years. Is everything done? Don't! Are there any vulnerabilities? Yes! There is still a lot to do and remain relevant risks, but the 2016 accounts show that Portuguese and Portuguese are better and that the country has become better. I'll finish by saying there's orders to pay. The PS and the Government will respond to the different challenges they face with seriousness and rigour, not giving in to populism or inappropriate demands in view of the country's available resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u191	Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, I wish you good improvements. Mr Cristóvão Crespo, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To analyze, through the General State Account (GSC) of 2016, the first year of government of the socialist majority, blogger and communist, is an interesting but alarming exercise for the results it has already produced.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u193	Even heartbreaking!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u194	Politically interesting, because of the ability that the actors have had to put up and remove masks according to the circumstances. Remarkable results, for the damage and damage they are doing in Portuguese society. The destructive capacity is much higher than it could be expected, at the start. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the year 2016 marks the beginning of a period of political illusionism protagonisted by the double Costa / Centeno with the patronage and support of Catarina and Jerónimo. Catarina and Jerome were the convenient and convivient partners. It's been a time of tricks, deceit and manipulation. Tricks, because they present and vote Budgets, with an adjustment strategy, with an increase in expenditure, and then it is seen that it cuts sharply. Deceptions, which have been and continue to be the victims of the degradation that have led to public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u196	Deceptions, which have gone and continue to be the victims of public officials. Manipulation, which they have done and continue to do, with oaths of defense of the quality of the public service, but that in practice they fall captive to the logic "we are all Centeno". Ladies and gentlemen. Members, and how the Government has managed to maintain this illusionist practice, will ask the Portuguese. What instruments did the government have at its disposal to show some, few, flowers? The most important and most relevant: the acquis and the package of reforms carried out by the previous Government, which gave rise to the country's economic recovery from the second half of 2013. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] Another: the abnormally low price of the oil barrel, which allowed the government to increase taxes on petroleum products as early as 2016 and allowed a huge increase in tax collection by this way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u198	On the other hand, the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, with a strategy based on sovereign active purchasing programmes with a transfer of liquidity to negative interest, allowed sustained reduction of the interest rate to be paid. Despite this unique context, that they were heirs, none of the most relevant indicators showed better results in 2016 than those obtained in 2015. It is enough to pay attention to real GDP, to the evolution of public debt and to public investment. In GDP growth increased from 1, 8 % to 1, 5 %. In public debt it increased from 128 % to 130 % of GDP. In gross fixed capital formation ( FBCF ), it increased from 5, 8 % to 1, 6 % of GDP, below 2015, reaching values below 2008. The average payment period of the State to suppliers, which had fallen sustainably since 2011, rose again in 2016. The risk of poverty for the unemployed has worsened in 2016, compared to 2015. In short, the governance of the last three years has been supported by reforms carried out by the previous Government, the balance price of the oil barrel and the monetary policy of the ECB ( European Central Bank ). Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this stage of illusionism, what were then the approaches that the socialist, blogger and communist government used? As we have already said, even before the presentation of the State Budget for 2016, there was a brutal increase in the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) to which neither the gas oil of agriculture escaped. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] from there forward it was to put the imagination to work in order to increase taxes, those that existed and others that were created. This was the involvement of the partners that each competed with the other and claimed their paternity. It was the destruction of the IRS and IRC reforms, with the elimination of the benefits granted by them ; it was the creation of the additional to the IMI ; it was the aggravation of all taxes with which the Portuguese live every day, from automobiles to sugar. Another decisive and highly effective approach: a radical and abrupt cut of public investment, which led to stopping or not starting projects that the country lacks and have been frozen. The magic wand of this act ended up being the captivating. Captivations used in all forms and pretexts and of which no service was safe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u199	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u200	Overall, captives reached more than EUR 940 million, thus concluding that of total captives only 46 % were released by the Ministry of Finance. More than half of the money the services needed was retained by the Finances. All public services have been reached, but we cannot fail to denounce the cases of the acquisition of goods and services and the Health Budget Program.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u201	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u202	Mr. President, I'll be done. Acquisitions of goods and services, which the services lacked, have been caught 62 % of the planned amount. Syntomatic, in the Health Budget Programme, of the amount of EUR 82 million was decapacitated EUR 3 million, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! EUR 79 million from this budget programme has been captured.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u204	In conclusion, Mr President, the year 2016 was the start of this governance strategy, of which we have been suffering the consequences. Practices and consequences that have not been confined to 2016, but continue to be used and continue to cause the degradation of the protection of populations and the provision of public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u205	Mr. Deputies, it is really to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u206	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is it not true that protection and relief to populations are worse? Is it not true that the National Health Service is worse?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u207	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u208	Is it not true that public school is worse? [[PS protests.]] This is the result of communist, blogger and socialist governance. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u209	Mr João Almeida of the CDS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed the 2016 Account, which was nothing but the year of all the captivitys, the year in which all « were Centeno » and the first year in which it probably became evident. The year 2016 was the year in which—and there is no other way to say this—there was a lie adopted by a majority in Parliament, which was the translation of a budget into a budget entirely different from what was planned. In other words, they brought to Parliament a budget which stipulated expenditure for each area and then executed it through captivating, often doing the opposite of what the Budget would understand, spending more where it would understand that it was spending less and spending much less where it said it would spend more. How was this possible? — ask the Portuguese. How could this have happened in 2016? It was possible because the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens approved a Budget whose execution never took care to monitor,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... they voted a mistake budget, a lie budget, and they were sitting waiting for no one to do that. It was much worse the attitude of sitting waiting for no one to do so than the act of approving the Budget. It was an irresponsibility, it was a concealment, it was a lie and it was an illusion to the electorate. [[CDS-PP applause.]] When we analyze the Account, we cannot fail to say that the year 2016 was the year of the lie of those who approved the Budget and did not want the country to discover how it had been executed. They were trying to get the Socialist Party's speech to pass, saying: "But this of the captivating has always been! There's always been captivating! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is true that there have always been captivating, there have never been so many, much less so many that they have reached the end of the budget implementation without being captivated. It was almost EUR 1000 million: the nearest year of this had been 2010, also in a socialist government ; in non- socialist governments, the maximum that was reached in final captivity was almost half — half, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — the value. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u211	Therefore, this well demonstrates the illusion and the lie that the Socialist Party practiced and that the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens did not want to monitor. The worst of these seizures, in addition to total value, is that they have been substantially different in each area and that we see that health or investment are the most affected areas, clearly frustrating what was the government's illusion discourse and of which the parties who supported it liked to echo. They were very pleased to say that they had a new economic model and that now, yes, they were going to fire the public investment, but see that with the budget implementation, the public investment in 2016 was less than the one that existed in 2015. In other words, a Government of the Socialist Party, supported by the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, made less public investment than a Government of the PSD and the CDS. That is what the budget lies were trying to prevent the accounts from showing and that the captivations allowed it to be executed. In health, it was the same thing: the one who was the Government of the Left, who was supposed to recover the National Health Service (SNS) through the seizures, stopped executing much of the expenditure that was part of the political discourse, but was not part of the policy that they applied—one more lie in a fundamental area of government. In other words, we arrive at the end of the year with the parties on the left who support this government saying: "In fact, something needs to be done, because there is a small problem with capitulations here. Do not keep on seeking. ” on the part of the CDS, we were consequent: we presented a bill for them to be known, throughout the budget execution, the captivations and the decapitations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u212	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u213	We have recently had access to the first report by the Directorate-General for Budget Implementation, which allows us to conduct this scrutiny. Was it any of the parties that supported the government that was concerned about this first? No, it was the CDS! The others came back, but came back to the lowest extent possible, because when in the State Budget for 2018 we proposed that there should be a maximum ceiling for captives, so that the Government would not abuse captives and that, even if it did so as a management tool, it could not do so as an instrument of illusion, there the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens dropped the CDS proposal. If an abuse of captivating continues to exist today, Portuguese can thank you for the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens. We are today with another budget implementation, but we continue to look at the future with concern, because— and I end with words that could be ours, but they are not, on the analysis of the 2016 Account, that I quote—"(...) the expectations that had been created as regards the possibility of the 2016 EPO to break the austerity cycle clearly, having been adopted a general fiscal policy orientation that is less favourable to economic growth..." and the recovery «... of employment(...) » — page 4 of the Economic and Social Council Opinion ( CES ) on the 2016 Account.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u214	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u215	I will finish, Mr. President. More: ‘(...) the public investment reached the lowest point in 2016...’ — Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, reinforcement: the lowest point! — «... of the last decades (... ), affecting investments planned in essential areas (... ) and penalising economic growth and employment » — page 18 of the Economic and Social Council Opinion. The Economic and Social Council is right: the implementation of 2016 was bad and unfortunately the subsequent years are not being better.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u216	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u217	If the results are not already evident, it is because we benefit from the best scenario we have ever had since we entered the single currency, but unfortunately we are not taking advantage of the opportunity or creating the conditions for our current situation to be sustainable in the future. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u218	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The General State Account for 2016 generally reflects the main budgetary developments this year. We will go there to good points and bad points, but I would like to start by saying that it is very clear that improving the performance of the economy, especially at the level of employment, always allows for better budgetary results. The part of the fiscal consolidation that is made with economic growth is increasingly sustainable, is more fair and is increasingly lasting, and it existed partly in 2016 because it was the year of the end of the radicalism of the PSD and the CDS. And believe something, sirs. Members: no one wants to return to 2015, no one wants to return to a governance of PSD and CDS,... [[Protests from PSD Deputies Miguel Morgado and CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] ... nobody wants to go back to the cuts in unemployment benefits, no one wants to go back to court in the RSI (social income of insertion), no one wants to go back to court in the solidarity supplement for the elderly ( CSI), no one wants to return to the time of antisocial radicalism of the PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u221	The year 2016 was the year that marked the recovery of rights, it was the year that marked the recovery of wages, it was the year that marked the recovery of unemployment benefit, support to the poorest, support to the elderly, it was the year that marked the increase in the minimum wage, and this was reflected in the public accounts and economic growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u222	All right! [[Protests by PSD Members and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u223	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, are we going to talk about captivating? Of course! There was a part of the increase of nearly 300 million to health in 2016 that was captivated, but the fact is that there is an abismal difference between this and the 2000 million that were cut into health in 2013 and 2014 by the PSD/CDS government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u224	All right! [[Protests from PSD Deputies Miguel Morgado and CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u225	That one, Mr. Members, it is a reality we do not want to return to, because if little investment in the SNS is the guarantee of its definition, no investment or cuts in investment, as the PSD and CDS did, it is to want to destroy the SNS in less than a short time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u226	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u227	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there was a part of the budgetary consolidation due to economic growth and the correct and adjusted measures, it is also true that economic performance could have been better if the government had opted for a less restrictive policy from the point of view of budgetary implementation. This means several things, and one of them is that the government chose to have a deficit that was beyond the goal it had set — and of the various goals that it had even revised over time — and the UTAO itself (Technical Budget Support Unit) said that economic growth could have been better, there had been a different policy. The most obvious fact of this budgetary policy that has fallen short of what was needed is public investment. The government cannot justify why it has not implemented the public investment it has budgeted, except for the fiscal restriction policy it has carried out, with costs for the growth of the economy. Another factor that should be mentioned are the captivations, obviously: there were 1000 million who were taken in 2016, which was the highest year of the captivations, although, with the captivations, the Budgets had risen, but much less than what was needed. Mr Secretary of State, seizures are a wrong form of budgetary implementation—I think there is already an extended consensus on this, until they have been reduced—and they are a wrong form of budgetary implementation because 1000 million are necessary for public services; they are a wrong form of budgetary implementation because this does not give autonomy to sectoral ministries and then sectoral ministers have to systematically come to Parliament saying that they cannot execute expenditure because the Ministry to which Mr. Secretary of State belongs, the Ministry of Finance does not leave and therefore centralizes expenditure that should belong to sectoral ministries; and they are a wrong form of budgetary implementation because it is not transparent. In fact, it was because it was an intransparent form of budgetary implementation that several parties in the Assembly of the Republic — and not just the CDS — proposed amendments so that Parliament could monitor the policy of captive government. It is regrettable that it has been necessary to do so, but it has been, and today we have new mechanisms to monitor and, indeed, we have mechanisms introduced into the State Budget for 2018 — on a proposal from the Left Block, it is said — that captivating is limited, particularly in health. There are other points which the Court of Auditors refers to and which are not exclusive to this Government, such as the fact that the provisional appropriation, which should be a provision for extraordinary expenditure, should be used systematically for expenditure already known when the State Budget is carried out and the fact that there has been chronic subordination in various ministries—as is the case with the Ministry of Health, which is overwhelmed every year, although it should be recorded that this subordination has been decreasing. The Court of Auditors continues to criticise the way in which tax expenditure is accounted for — or is not accounted for — and as a small number of tax benefits of IRC (tax on the income of the public) concentrates most of the tax benefits. There are other failures that must certainly be mentioned, but it should also be noted that the Court of Auditors notes that there were more recommendations to be accepted and accepted this year than in 2015 compared to 2014. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, the Court of Auditors alerts the high levels of public debt, and this is a widespread concern. Several times the Block has said that public debt is not sustainable and that it takes another type of action to deal with the debt problem, namely a restructuring...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u228	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u229	I will finish, Mr. President. The Court of Auditors also alerts to the weight that guarantees and financing to entities such as Parvalorem remain in the State budget. Because Parvalorem has not had any scrutiny at the level of its implementation, although it consumes millions of euros, it appealed — which has already been made through COFMA — to the IGF audit ( General Inspection of Finance ) to Parvalorem to be able to be sent by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u230	To conclude the debate, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, John Leon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u231	Mr President, I would like to start by highlighting a few points. With regard to the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors notes that the State budget for 2016 complied with 63 % of its recommendations. I would also like to point out that the intervention of the opposition parties was based on justifications for failing all the forecasts they made. [[Congrats from PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u232	That is so ridiculous that only Mr Galamba applauds!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u233	in these justifications that presented to have failed, they spoke in several things. The first thing they talked about was public investment. Public investment in 2016 was low but was particularly low in the first half of 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u234	It was less than 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u235	Those with management experience in the Public Administration know that implementing a relevant public investment takes at least six months to one year, so we already know who is responsible, largely for public investment being so low, especially in the initial phase of 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u236	In 2017, the state became the same, the authorities have risen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u237	As regards public services, the justifications they presented for the failures of their forecasts referred to the high level of seizures. We would like to point out one thing: this government has never had such a high captivating rate as in your government, which has reached take-up rates of 50%, 60%, 70% in the State budget law. We also wanted to point out that the spending of services in 2016 increased, while, contrary to your government, it decreased, it was cut. Therefore, they cannot invoke the argument of captivating when they compare responsible and reasonable increase of expenditure in 2016 with an abissal cut of expenditure during your government. With regard to the National Health Service, we wanted to point out that in this three-year period SNS expenditure has already increased more than EUR 1000 million and the pre-trogic peaks have been restored. Yes, during your government, there was a very sharp cut in the spending of the National Health Service, which we are reverting! Finally, we would also like to point out that achieving the budgetary objectives is fundamental to the country, fundamental to credibility and fundamental to ensure that we are reducing the debt, concern already mentioned here, paying less interest, and so that what we pay less interest can come to finance the social state, important for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u238	Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u239	To call on the Bureau on the conduct of the work, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u240	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u241	Mr President, recently when I completed my speech, I looked at the electronic picture and saw that it was three seconds away to finish the time it had. Before I left, I pointed out to Mr President that two seconds were missing, which, I think, would indicate that I would like to speak again. It is true that the management of my bench did not communicate it to the Bureau, but I note that Mr President, after the last intervention, immediately put the floor to Mr. Secretary of State to close the debate without even giving the possibility of making whom he could intervene, which in this case was only the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. So I do not question the legitimacy of Mr President's speech, I must say that I am a little disappointed with this conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u242	Your disappointment is recorded, Mr. After the assessment of the General Account of the State of 2016, we moved on to the general discussion of Bill No 119 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the cyberspace security legal regime by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1148. To present the initiative, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that, in this House and in society at large, no one will doubt the growing importance of networks and information systems in today's society. Its reliability, resilience and security are essential today for the continuation of economic activities and companies in the public sector and in the private sector. It is therefore necessary for these networks and these systems to be effectively defended by security incidents, whose frequency in the world in general has been increasing. This is the purpose of Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1148, which this bill, which we bring to Parliament today, aims to transpose. Among other aspects, the Directive lays down the obligation of Member States to adopt a national strategy for the safety of networks and information systems provided for in Article 4. the proposal of this law. Of course, the cybersecurity strategy is different from that of cyberdefense, which aims to ensure the national defence of cyberspace by the Armed Forces and cybercrime for criminal investigation in this field by the Judicial Police, without prejudice to the necessary cooperation between these three areas, as has been happening. The Directive provides for minimum safety and notification requirements for essential service operators and digital service providers listed in this proposal of law, without prejudice to those requirements being further densified. The Directive also determines that Member States shall designate a national network and information security authority, a single national contact point, which we propose is the National Cyber Security Centre, which, together with the High Space Security Council and the national IT security response team, CERT.PT, will form the security structure in this area with the powers defined by law. The proposal for a law finally establishes a sanctioning and supervision regime, with fines of low values, so as not to overcharge public operators and private entities in a first phase which must be much more pedagogical than sanctioning. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u244	For an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u245	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In order to ensure a high common level of security of networks and information systems, the European Union has defined cybersecurity as a priority, precisely determining the obligation of each Member State to adopt a cyberspace security strategy. It should be recalled here, Mrs Minister, that the previous Government approved the general lines of the strategic global plan for rationalization and cost reduction with information and communication technologies ( ICT ) in the Public Administration. This action plan provided for the definition and implementation of a National Information Security Strategy ( ENSI ), in particular with the creation, installation and operation of a National Cyber Security Centre. And the truth is, Mrs Minister, that the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 42/2012 constituted, on the basis of the Prime Minister, the Installation Commission of the Centre, precisely with the task of defining the measures and the instruments, whose final report pointed out that it was a new service of the direct administration of the State, with administrative autonomy, to function on the dependence of the Prime Minister. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that the economic and financial context of the country at the time and the provisions of Law No 83 - C / 2013 of 31 December have discouraged the creation of new public services, considering that the use of synergies of an existing service, especially in the area of facilities and equipment, was the most appropriate solution for the establishment, installation and operation of the Centre. However, at that time it was also defined, Mrs. Minister, that the National Security Office was the service indicated to host the National Cyber Security Centre at the early stage of its operation, subject, however, to an evaluation, evaluation of what would be done at the end of 2017, with a view to a decision on the maintenance of the definition or evolution for complete empowerment. Ms. Minister, today's proposed law in extravagant discussion of the transposition of the Directive, reinforcing that the National Cyber Security Centre operates within the National Security Office and establishing the Supreme Security Council of Cyberspace. It is true, Mrs. Minister, that the former coordinator of the National Cyber Security Centre regretted that the Government did not have the courage to restructure the sector, criticizing the fact that the National Security Centre had not been autonomous and continued under the care of the National Security Office.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u246	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u247	I shall conclude, Mr President. He said, moreover, that this is a political error, since military protection in an area such as cybersecurity is prolonged, which is eminently civil. Mr Minister, I ask you the following: what was the government's assessment of this empowerment? Is the Government receptive, in the field of expertise, to intensify this debate? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u248	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u249	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: When we discuss a legislative initiative in the field of cybersecurity in Portugal, the question we have to ask ourselves is what is the priority in order to strengthen the security of critical and sensitive structures in this area. And there seems to be consensus that what will be done is to develop competences in the economy, civil society and public administration itself, with a view to the relationship and resolution capacity of current incidents in what is the operation, let's say, of civil cyberspace. Now, the proposed law that the Government presents to us, by placing the National Cyber Security Centre within the framework of the National Security Office and, therefore, by subjecting it to a guardianship that remains linked to the military dimension of our State, opted for a different perspective from that which seems to us to be appropriate. It is really an approach that seems to us to be inadequate to what is important, because, as the Minister recently said, in terms of developing concepts, a real dimension is cyberdefense—and therefore the protection of control and control systems or the timely identification of hybrid attacks and the response that is necessary to these attacks—and something else is cybersecurity—and therefore the proper management of threats or incidents in the operation of essential digital services and also on the Internet of Things. Therefore, it makes no sense, from our point of view, to maintain an option to involve the National Security Office as a guardian of this area. It has already been said, and I think it is important to remember, that the former coordinator of the National Cyber Security Centre has rightly stated that there is still an option that is politically wrong, and the Left Block converges with that view. Recently, the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, in the framework of the Congress of the Socialist Party, proposed that the challenge of digital society be one of the strategic dimensions for the political commitment of the country. And I believe, the Left Block believes that there was no such thing as this, that it was very sensitive to this design, enough determination to take up the challenge of digital society—I repeat, digital society—in ruins with a digital pre-society approach. We have other repairs to make to the content of the bill and we will endeavour - in the field of expertise, we will present our views, with a view to correcting the mistakes that this bill has, in our view, and to contribute to making digital society really a challenge to be taken fully seriously and in the best way, developing social capacities in this same area. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u250	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u251	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Regarding the irreversibility of digital transformation, there are authors who argue that the world in which we live is already a digital world, not only because there are already natives of this world, that is, our young people who have already been born in this world with these bits and hyperlinks and do not conceive another, but also because all of us, those who are born in a world prior to this, have become digital immigrants. Thus, in this assumption, digitization is a path that, incontrovertibly, no country will cease to follow in the direction of sustainable development. Now, this bill has a history and already emerges following the Digital Agenda for Europe since 2010, in which Europe has resolved, and very well, adequately to respond to the issues of citizenship and security that were not only in the physical world but also in the growing development of cyberspace. And it is following this legislating impulse that this bill emerges, which will generally apply to all public institutions that move in cyberspace, with the exception of the Armed Forces and the systems that process classified information, which will, of course, be governed by their own legislation, and apply-CL to private entities, critical infrastructure operators and essential services. My first observation is, of course, to manifestly challenge any appreciation from which it turns out that the National Centre for Cybersecurity is a militarized structure, since, obviously, it has placed a structure dependent on the Prime Minister and not on the Minister for Defence means that it is an intrinsically civil structure. There is no doubt about that. And it is not the condition of a structure to be led by a citizen who is military that transforms it into a military structure, which clearly is not. Obviously, with this Directive and this bill, it contributes to building a common high level of network security and information systems. This bill indicates the National Cybersecurity Centre as a unique contact point for international cooperation purposes, and designates the national computer security response team. Under the law, there will be the National Cybersecurity Centre, the National Cybersecurity Authority and the CERT.PT, which is the national response team to incidents. In addition, legal provision is also given to the Supreme Council for Security of Cyberspace, until today only provided by Resolution of the Council of Ministers. In fact, it is noted that one of the competences of this Higher Council is the revision of the National Cyberspace Security Strategy, as we are already in the process of carrying out this review. Therefore, as soon as the law enters into force, a plan must be taken three years and two days ago. We are therefore two days away from starting this process. I believe that the proposal for transposition of this directive will deserve the approval of this House, which, of course, in the process of specialization - and I conclude, Mr President - will introduce the amendments which you understand. I conclude by saying that security is a factor of freedom, and it is -it is in the physical world and -it is, for the most part, in cyberspace. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u252	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u253	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The issue of cybersecurity is very serious, sensitive and, of course, what is at stake is the safeguarding of fundamental rights of citizens who daily use computer networks and the security of infrastructures fundamental to the functioning of the State. Thus, cyberattack defense is of fundamental importance in the days that run. What we have before us is a bill that creates institutional mechanisms that are unclear. And they're not clear why? What is the proposed structure? It is proposed that the coordination of the National Cyberspace Security Strategy be undertaken to a body with the participation of 26 entities to which coordination functions are assigned. We don't see how an organ with 26 units can coordinate whatever it is. Besides, it is not defined who coordinates. A council is set up, which is advisory of the Prime Minister, as can be read in the bill, but which is not chaired by the Prime Minister, is chaired by another member of the Government. It is relatively unusual for an advisory body of one entity to be chaired not by that entity but by another. It can also be read in the bill that a National Cyber Security Centre is created. But the only thing that is said is that this Centre works within the National Security Office, but it is not referred to as the coordinator. Is it the National Security Office itself? This National Cyber Security Centre has, in fact, essential functions. More: there is an incident response team that works, as can be read in the bill, within the framework of the National Cyber Security Centre and that is the CERT.PT. That is, CERT.PT operates within the framework of the National Cyber Security Centre, which in turn operates within the National Security Office and is the National Cyber Security Authority. But it's not said who names, who he is. So here is a shadow game that does not allow us to have an accurate idea of what the institutional mechanism the government is proposing. In addition to the issue which has already been publicly pointed out that there is a relationship with the military institution—we have nothing against the military institution—what we realize is that there may be this de facto link, but it is not a legal link, because it is not written anywhere that one knows that the National Security Office has to be chaired by a military citizen. We have nothing against the military institution, but there is something illogical here, because the computer networks of the Armed Forces are out of this diploma, as is obvious, but there are also the networks in which classified matter circulates. On this point, we raise a question: as regards this classified matter—until there are classifications of the most different type, from the state secret to another type of less solemn classifications—when it is excluded from the scope of this diploma, what exactly applies to it? It is also a sensitive matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u254	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u255	I conclude immediately, Mr President, just to say that there are a number of indefinitions that lack a very careful assessment in the specialty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u256	Also for an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva from the CDS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u257	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The legal regime on cyberspace security, which aims, and very well, to ensure a common level of security in the Union's networks and information systems, is a matter, as everyone here has already referred to satiety, of vital importance not only for its content itself, but for the essential interconnection that we share in today's global world, and for which the Minister drew attention. This is a matter which therefore deserves reflection and study not only because of its sensitivity, as I have already said, but also because of the technical issues that have already been raised by all parliamentary groups. I am not going to repeat these technical issues, because they are unnecessary and are already duly scalpeled, but I am going to mention just a few to record: the processing of personal data, which is concerned and has to be articulated with the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation), which is also under discussion; the proportionality of fines, a question that some entities raise and on which we have to see whether there is a problem or not; and the discussion that has been made about whether the dual model is better or whether it is better the unique model, which is the current model and which continues to be imposed by the government, despite the directive does not seem to lead to that path. Mrs. Minister, we should have a discussion on this matter, reflect on it and see what is the way to better deal with it. We will, of course, deal with all these matters in the field of specialty, which is what it is for, and we will do so - without the pressure of the systematic delays that the Government imposes on the parliamentary agenda. In fact, this is another matter whose discussion is delayed and it is a matter in which the CDS has not ceased to draw attention and to intervene actively. In fact, we are late in this matter, as we are late in other matters with interconnection to it, as is the case, for example, with the law on metadata or critical infrastructure plans. They are essential matters for which the Government has acted as if they were not urgent, but they are urgent, it is urgent to treat them and the CDS will not tire of demanding answers. Mr Minister, the central issue, and to conclude, is not only about these matters. We can — and we should, of course — discuss and reflect on the proposal, improve it, decide which is the best model and we can, in thesis, make an excellent law. But absolutely none of this will have any relief if everything continues as it is today. What I mean by this, Minister, is that today everything works without means and without resources. So, no matter how good we have laws, it will be impossible to have effective action on such a relevant subject as this. We can have the most complete and structured law, the best law in the world, but if we do not have material resources, financial and human resources at the same time, little will matter whether the law is good or bad. So once and for all, I urge the Minister and the Government to pay due attention to this matter in order to avoid the abandonment of good frames, constant resignations and successive disinvestment in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u258	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u259	I will finish, Mr. President. One day, Mrs. Minister, it may be too late to repent and we realized that everything was okay when it was manifestly not all right. Madam Minister, I urge you to look into this area very carefully to give you the necessary effective resources which you have not had in recent years and which you urgently need to have. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u260	In order to conclude the debate on this point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council once again has the floor for an intervention. The Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization — Mr President, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Before giving some clarifications, I naturally appreciate the contributions that have already been made and the ones that have been announced. First of all, I would like to say that the National Cyber Security Centre already exists — we are not creating it, it is not this bill that proposes its creation — and includes an incident response team, which is the CERT.PT. All this is working within the National Security Office. It is not a structure that we are creating now, it is a structure that is in operation. Secondly, I am referring to the fact that the National Cyber Security Centre is not part of a military structure — I believe that there is a confusion which we must clarify and which results from an opinion that has been made on this proposal — but, rather, in a civil structure, a central service of the direct administration of the State which is part of a government area that has nothing to do with national defence. The cyberdefense is that it is part of the national defence system, a cross-sectional area to all government areas, which depends on Mr. Prime Minister, with delegation of competence, in this case myself. the Organic Law of the National Security Office, where the National Security Centre works, does not even result in the appointment of a director or deputy general. at this time, the National Security Office is headed by Mr. Admiral Gameiro Marques, who was chosen according to his technical curriculum—and I ask Mr. Members who read it — and of its specialization. It is a highly valuable picture, which is clear to me, which receives my guidance and which, of course, I have chosen to exercise this position in accordance with your curriculum. The National Cyber Security Centre has its own competences: a specific staff map, including its remuneration status, and an own brand and identity that confers on it. As has also been said here, resources are scarce in this area and are very much to be desired, given the importance of the issue I bring today. So if we can share some technical resources and, above all, administrative resources, we will have more means and more resources to invest where we need to, which is in technical resources. The National Cyber Security Centre has seen its budget increased by 20 %. Few were the organisms that depend on me that had this benefit last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u261	I ask you to conclude, Minister. The Minister of the Presidency and Administrative Modernization — I am therefore aware that this is an area in which we have to invest, an area in which it is difficult to find competences and an area in which the Government understands, we must maintain a shared administrative support structure just so that we can have more resources for the technical part, a civil structure. I am not prejudiced about people who have made their career and training in the Navy, the Air Force or the Army, because they are here as if they were people of civil society, outside the national defence structure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, this point has been concluded. We will move on to the next point of our agenda, which consists of the general discussion of the projects of lein.o 869 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — For the implementation of a system of incentive and deposit of plastic packaging, glass and beverage aluminium (PAN) and 882 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Implements a system of deposit, return and return of beverage packages (recoverable tara) and creates the respective collection system through incentive (first amendment to the unified waste flow regime) ( BE) together with draft resolution No 1016 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Awareness campaigns for waste reduction and selective deposition appropriate to recycling ( The Greens ). To present your initiative, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Plastic is a global disaster, a problem for which Portugal contributes daily, because it does not adopt the best waste management mechanisms. In order to remove the plastic from the economy and the environment, we must act on several fronts that complement each other and that do not replace each other: refuse and reduce consumption on the one hand; reuse on the other; replace with biodegradable materials; and also ensure efficiency in the recovery and recycling of the packaging that is consumed. The NAP presents today a measure aimed at ensuring the recovery and recycling of almost all packagings of beverages, plastics, aluminium and glass, which stems from the finding that in Portugal most of these wastes are deposited on land, incinerated or disposed of for rivers and seas. In Portugal only 42 % of plastic packaging is recycled. The packaging storage system ensures the reduction of waste deposition in the environment and is already used in several European countries such as Germany, Finland, Denmark, Slovakia, Norway, the Netherlands, or Sweden, where an average rate of 94 % is reached for the resumption of beverage packaging. in this system, which we propose phased and fully enforce in 2022, is attributed a value to the consumer, after the return of packaging, through recovery equipment. The implementation of this system has several advantages in that it considerably decreases the amount of plastic, glass and aluminium that is sent to landfill or incinerated, drastically reduces the amount of waste deposited in the environment, enhances the materials and contributes to the effective realization of a circular economy, reduces the use of virgin raw material, contributes to the realization of the Paris Agreement and creates jobs. There is a clear need to create appealing and inviting alternatives to mobilize citizens to intervene environmentally and contribute to achieving national and European goals. The State should be the main mobiliser of the population through the creation of appropriate mechanisms and legislative frameworks to enable the implementation of the new European Plastic Strategy, so that Portugal can ensure that by 2030 all plastic packaging placed on the market is recycled and recycled. In addition to this general objective, the European Commission has announced that by 2025 Member States will be required to collect at least 90 % of disposable plastic bottles. This proposal for the NAP therefore gives shape precisely to the concerns of the scientific community, non-governmental associations of the environment and the European Union, in order to increase the levels of resumption of plastic, glass and aluminium, in the pursuit of more efficient and sustainable environmental policies, for the benefit of citizens and the planet, with respect for the principle of intergenerational solidarity, as well as the careful use of natural resources which are finite. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The time to act is now. We count on all parties to take further this step that aims to preserve and protect our common home.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u264	Mr André Silva, I did not interrupt him during the course of his speech, because we are in the process of adapting to the new rules, but I would ask him to note that the increase of time to the authors of the initiative is now two minutes, the end of the time initially allocated, and the initial time has no increase. As this rule is now being applied for the first time, I did not interrupt it, but the two minutes were consumed in its initial intervention. So this repair is done for the future. Having said this, you have the floor to present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u265	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have several ways of dealing with the crisis we face in waste management and also various forms of intervention. Awareness-raising and recycling are two of the responses, and should be encouraged. We also have the possibility to implement policies for reuse and reduction of waste production. The latter, normally less targeted, are the most effective in combating the crisis we have witnessed, particularly with regard to the urgent response to limiting the introduction of new packaging on the market, but also to reducing the plastic deposited in the oceans. Mrs. Members: It is about 150 million t deposited, only in the last 50 years. In 2050, says the UN, we can have more plastic in the oceans than fish. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you will also know, as well as I, that the market creates needs, some more necessary than others and many, too often, less. This perspective leads to an entry of infindable products into the consumer chains and also leads to an exponential increase in products, consumption and consequently waste. Now, if consumption habits have been shaped by the market and by the production of materials, what the Left Block says is that we should also intervene there so that not only the consumer has to change behaviors but also producers and operators. This is because these are the ones that primarily introduce materials into the ecosystem and model consumer behaviors, according to the needs they create or wish to create. What we propose, then, is to promote the practice of reuse, implementing the compulsoryity of a percentage and a system of deposit, return and return, in which packaging becomes a complete circular circuit — production, use and reuse. Packings are no longer produced from zero and are used again and again, as we did, in fact, two or three decades ago, and on time we still do. Nothing simpler and more effective. The Left Block therefore considers that operators should be held responsible for reducing the waste produced. We propose that, from 2023 onwards, half of the beverage product should be in reusable packagings, which potentially reduces the amount of waste produced. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament, consumers can adapt themselves, operators and producers too; only the planet and oceans seem to be at the point of saturation, so it is up to us now and here to intervene to induce changes in the behaviour of all players in the economy, according to their responsibilities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u266	To present the Greens'initiative, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you know, the Greens have taken the matter of waste, mainly waste reduction, as a priority on their parliamentary agenda. We have presented here several projects, namely just to remind some, about the reduction of superfluous or oversized packaging, which obviously implies a vision of what can contribute, at the market level, to the supply, to the reduction of packaging. Consumers are required to buy a certain product and to bring with them a package of which it immediately lacks is not correct and therefore regulate the market, in its offer, it is also essential, from the perspective of the Greens, for an effective waste reduction policy. I still remember another project that The Greens had been presenting relatively recently and had to do with the so-called disposable plastic dish. Plastic is effectively a plague in our societies, is used in excess, is released into the free environment, our seas and our oceans are caught up in plastic. It has already been mentioned that there are data indicating that in the year 2050, if everything continues with this undesirable normality, there will be more plastic in the oceans than fish, and this should actually make us reflect. We need reduction policies! What do the Greens propose through that bill? That, progressively, the market would no longer make available this disposable dish in plastic and would now encourage the non-disposable one, but within the disposable one, to use biodegradable materials, which, in our perspective, would be fundamental. This is to give some examples of the priority the Greens have given to this matter. Today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are challenging the Assembly of the Republic by presenting a draft resolution which is not so much about waste reduction but more about recycling, another component of the policy of the three Rs. And the truth is that, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we all observe well, we find that, a few years ago, there was a great deal of precision, particularly in the media, awareness campaigns for the separation of waste and its separate deposition. These campaigns have ceased to exist, which is regrettable, because they allowed a permanent incentive for citizens to be separated, this screening is done and this deposition in the ecopoint, depending on the type of waste, is done correctly. There are also citizens—and I think that you and the Members. Members will be aware of this — that, for some waste in particular, they have doubts about the ecopoint in which they should place their waste. Therefore, these campaigns are of awareness but also of information, of training for citizens and of encouraging us to gain more rigour and balance in recycling goals, which is a matter which, of course, society as a whole should have as its objective. in this sense, the Greens propose a very clear recommendation to the Government to develop and encourage these campaigns to raise citizens' awareness of ways and means of reducing or preventing waste, to ensure, together with waste management operators, the promotion of information campaigns to citizens and also to encourage the standardization of information signals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u268	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u269	I will finish, Mr. President. Can't I spend my last two minutes now, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u270	Mrs Deputy, this is not the case with you, because the fishing schedules do not increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u271	Ah! All right! So, of course, I will respect the Bureau's decision and I will take a decision on the other projects in these two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u272	I don't know if I made myself understand: you don't have a majority, Mrs. Deputy. You may have to take advantage of the specialty phase to develop your intervention. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u273	Ah! So, I can't use any more of the word... I didn't understand, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u274	We are all learning from the new rules, Your Honor. You now have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mrs Angela Moreira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Communist Party's Parliamentary Group has always demonstrated willingness and willingness to create a legal regime that creates the conditions for reducing the mass use of superfluous packaging. It is crucial that market taxes should be exceeded, which stimulates unbridled consumption and maximizes profit using the superfluity of tons and tons of packaging. The CFP's Parliamentary Group therefore believes that legislative intervention must be much more comprehensive than that which has been experienced so far in Portugal and must be based on the limitation of these market freedoms, as a way to reduce the use of products without any use, as well as on the effective reduction. As regards the initiatives under discussion, there are several issues that cause us doubt: the NAP initiative, which proposes the creation of incentives for the collection of non-degradable materials such as plastics, cartons, inks, chlorine, glass or aluminium, leaves entirely open what type of premium will be awarded. We believe that a system of storage, return and return of packaging should be introduced in an informed and pedagogical manner, which contributes to the reduction of waste production and not to its increase. On the other hand, it is not understood what the motivation for the collection points is solely on the large commercial surfaces. What interests will be behind this proposal? Is this not an advantage to large distributors, in a framework where news of claims for the creation of a private waste collection network for recycling have been made available to the public? Oh, my God! We see that the Left Block initiative extends the collection points to other places beyond the large areas. Giving priority to reusable packagings by the distributor applying the value of the tara, removing the cost of packaging to the consumer, has already been a practice in Portugal and can be a return value. In addition, the draft laws under discussion raise another question: will the creation of a network of collection points of these materials not lead to the deresponsibility of producers, in a framework where responsibility for the management and final destination of packaging waste lies with packaging or importing companies that place these products on the market? Oh, my God! We appreciate the initiative of the Greens Ecological Party, which focuses on information, training, awareness-raising and education for an environmental policy among all citizens, which we certainly follow. The genesis of the problem is in the production of the product and its superfluity. The reduction in production and use of packaging is a measure that is necessary, giving priority to the quality of life of people and the environment, deferring the whims of economic groups that use and abuse resources exclusively for their own benefit, causing an increase in the price of products and producing much more waste. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u276	Mrs. Members, I ask the parliamentary groups that have not yet entered their speakers in favour of doing so. However, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a debate of the greatest currentity and relevance, because, despite all the positive path that has been taken, as the recent Report of the State of the Environment 2017 shows, the objectives set are very little ambitious. Just look at the recycling targets of plastic packaging waste, which are 22, 5 %. And even the global waste recycling target in 2030 of 50 % is far from being reached. We must therefore go further and define a path and policies that necessarily reduce the amount of packaging waste by reusing and recycling more and more. In the CDS we believe in the implementation and development of ecological solutions and the adoption of mechanisms that can generate a change in behaviour, either through economic and financial instruments, or through awareness-raising and education campaigns. But more than believing in these solutions, we put them into practice, and that is an example of the recent decision of the Cascais and Estoril Frequencies Board, led by the CDS, which is the largest in the country, which has decided to abolish plastics, including handkerchiefs, bags or bottles, in their services. Look at this, ladies. Members, the decision of the Cascais Frequencies Board and Estoril was at the level of its services and not of the entire authority. It was a voluntary decision, the result of environmental awareness, as a way to set an example in the education and awareness of citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u279	To go further, what do we need? We lack the commitment to production and design, which respects the need to reuse, and for this we need investment in research and development, and we need to promote recycling at the level of the citizen either with awareness-raising campaigns and environmental education, either with the introduction of economic tools, or by placing collections close to the dwellings, as the State must indeed expand widely. All these actions are proposed in the recent European Plastic Strategy. Mrs. Members : These initiatives that we are discussing, although they all aim at the same goal, choose different paths and therefore we have to make each of them a necessarily different analysis. The Greens' proposal is in the right direction, to offer the Government greater information and awareness, and so we follow it and we will vote for it. However, we believe that it is insufficient to achieve the objectives that we all want. On the other hand, the NAP and Block proposals change the law, in practice, making mandatory measures for which it is already planned that can be implemented through Decree-Law No 152 - D / 2017. The NAP is more ambitious in the objectives, covering not only reusable packagings but also non-reusable packagings, at a later stage, but it does so with a vision, in our perspective, too urban—as, indeed, it is its characteristic, Mr President— by limiting the collection points to large surfaces, forgetting all rural Portugal where they do not exist. The proposal of the Left Block is more comprehensive as regards collection sites, proposing the existence of other locations, and also involves restoration. However, both fall short of imposing the mandatory free availability of private spaces of entities which are not responsible for the production or consumption of waste. Therefore, in the CDS we are available to discuss these proposals in the specialty, but we cannot follow them in the exact terms in which they are presented. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude, this year the European Commission will review the Directive on packaging and waste to introduce harmonised rules and to ensure that all plastic packaging is reused by 2030. Until then, the State may and should begin by giving the example, in particular by reducing waste packaging in the Public Administration and by reusing more.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u280	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u281	In fact, we find it strange that the parties on the left have not started by proposing this initiative, that the State should set an example when they defend the State so much and propose imposing the measure on the private. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u282	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Renato Sampaio.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PS governments have always encouraged the installation of effective systems for the collection and treatment of urban waste to ensure public health and environmental protection. The Strategic Plan for Urban Residues, of this Government — PERSU 2020 — points out exactly this path, still focusing on changing attitudes and behaviors, which we need to consider as a national design. Aware of this desire, the Government adopted a resolution in June 2017 in the Council of Ministers, the National Environmental Education Strategy for the period 2017 - 2020 ( ENEA 2020 ), which incorporates three objectives: more transversal environmental education; more open environmental education and more participatory environmental education. Today we are discussing initiatives by the NAP, the Left Block and the Greens, in order to raise awareness of the reduction and selective deposition appropriate to recycling. It is indeed important to align our legislation with the European Commission's recent legislative initiative on reducing the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. Ensuring high collection targets of this material is essential as well as strengthening the principle of the responsibility of the producer/packager in the management of these packages placed on the national market, anticipating the objectives of the Residue Directive, recently adopted by the Council and the European Parliament, within the framework of the circular economy package. Also important is the responsibility of municipalities for urban waste management, insofar as it provides that the quantities collected through packaging recovery equipment will be accounted for for for the goals of resumption of their urban waste management systems ( SGRU). Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS Parliamentary Group finds virtualities in the NAP bill for the preservation of the environment, until it is very close to the government policies already announced, as well as the Greens draft resolution, which meets the one envisaged in PERSU 2020. As for the draft law of BE, it is redundant since many of its measures are already provided for in Decree-Law No 152 - D / 2017. The PS Parliamentary Group and the Government effectively seek to develop legislative developments in reducing the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. However, the steps in these matters should be sustainable and cautious. With the implementation of the major objectives of PERSU 2020, we will increase the prevention of urban waste production and hazardousity, with consumer measures, with the strengthening of information and awareness campaigns and with the application of the polluter-payer principle. Together with industry and trade, we need to increase the reduction of packaging material. The country must increase the capacity of reuse, recycling and quantity of recyclables in an integrated plan, in upstream operation in the waste management chain and in increasing the effectiveness of the separation of waste collected selectively,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u284	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u285	I'm done now, Mr. President. He said that we must increase the effectiveness of the separation of waste collected selectively, where once again the role of citizens, industry and services will prove essential for the future of the environment. This is the way and we are committed to pursuing it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u286	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today a topic that has always been the subject of concern and action by the PSD. The PSD has also been the main engine of policies that, over the last few decades, have allowed for undeniable evolution of good environmental practices and improved rates of waste collection, separation and recycling in Portugal. The environmental challenges we currently face are great and we must be able to meet them. Today, because what we have still does not respond to the scale of the challenges we face, PAN, BE and the Greens present initiatives that aim to improve our effectiveness in re-use, separation and recycling of materials. The PSD is available, and will not be inhibited, to continue to contribute to overcome the challenges ahead. We have pointed out and promoted progress. Recently, we indicated a way to end the use of disposable plastic dishes in the restoration. As a government, we have designed the strategy of PERSU 2020 and we have pointed out sustainable production and consumption, green growth and the circular economy as ambitious goals and reforms, involving hundreds of organizations, in a commitment to the future, where we have framed green taxation, which led to a huge behavioral change in Portuguese society and which practically ended with the use of environmentally harmful light plastic bags in Portugal. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All measures that give rise to good environmental practices and that are sustainable for the economy and positive for society deserve the monitoring and contributions of the PSD. We therefore welcome them whenever we see the parties get involved in these issues and bring to the debate ideas and changes that may have a beneficial effect on our environmental performance as a country. The projects we are discussing today point to awareness-raising, reuse, betting in the tara system and advocate the introduction of incentives that aim to positively influence citizens' adherence to more environmentally correct behaviors and more effective recycling practices. The data from the countries that have implemented these systems tell us that the results obtained in the collection and recycling indices have evolved favourably during these applications. For all this, we understand that the discussion here deserves to be deepened. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, much has already been done in this field, but there is still much to be done. We have a duty to continue to act on behalf of the present and future generations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u289	To conclude this debate, in the limited time remaining, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u290	Mr President, I would like to thank the contribution of all parties and to respond quickly to two doubts from Mrs Ángela Moreira of the CFP. First of all, the value of the deposit cannot be on the legislative initiative, but it will obviously be regulated by the government at the door. Return machines have a cost of several tens of thousands of euros and it is natural that entities and operators with greater financial capacity and greater social and environmental responsibility are those who will be obliged to have these machines. We cannot impose that a mercenary has these machines and, consequently, those points of recovery. That is why, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, I would like to say that the doubts that the CDS has and the improvements that can be made to the draft law of the NAP should not prevent the CDS from voting favourably on this proposal so that, in the field of specialty, we make the improvements that are due and fair. I thank you for your contribution to the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u291	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to initiate the vote but I would like to ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to give an account of the file which has now entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, information that gave entry to the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 920 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Eliminates visasgold ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 922 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — eliminates the additional tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) and approves monthly revisions of the unit rates of tax applicable to leadless petrol and road gas oil to the continent ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u293	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, we will now enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register electronically will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 206 presences, to which 2 are added, by PS Member Nuno Sá and PSD Member Luís Campos Ferreira, making 208 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by reading vote No 568 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Loss of human lives in the Mediterranean ( PS ). I ask Mrs. Secretary Idália Serrão to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The most recent data from around 650 cases of loss of human lives in the Mediterranean reveal an inversion to the 2017 homologous period of about 1143 registered deaths, but continues to point out a very worrying reality about the number of deaths caused by the scourge of illegal immigration. This development was only possible due to the contribution of the European Union ( EU ) based on the assumptions of solidarity. « EU migration policy must be based on internal solidarity between the various Member States and institutions, and externally because human life is more important than anything else », said EU High Representative Federica Mogherini. It is therefore important to highlight the sorrow and solidarity for all lives lost in such desperate situations as these that lead thousands to give themselves up to an uncertain fate. in this spirit, we welcome the solidarity action of the Spanish State by welcoming the Aquarius boat, of the humanitarian organization SOS Méditerranée, which last Sunday was prevented from attacking in Italy and then in Malta with 630 refugee migrants on board. in this framework, we reject disrespect for the EU's treaties and assumptions of solidarity, which have guided it since its genesis in the Treaty of Rome, the Treaty of Lisbon and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union giving priority to the defence of human rights, which have been concerned by the attitude of Italy and Malta. As our Prime Minister Antonio Costa said: « If we all close borders we will not have a better Europe. We shall surely have a Europe that is far from its values." It is stressed in this table that Portugal is 5. the country of the 28 most received asylum seekers and has one of the most flexible immigration laws in the world. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret for the approximately 650 immigrants or refugees who, since the beginning of 2018, have died in the waters of the Mediterranean and for the more than 3,000 deaths recorded in 2017, calling for greater solidarity and the primacy of the defence of human rights by all European States ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u295	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] Let us turn to vote No 563 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of the poet Albano Martins ( PSD and PS ), who will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On June 6, the writer and professor Albano Dias Martins died. The poet and translator was born in 1930, in the village of the Roof, Town Hall of the Fundão. Graduated in Classical Philology by the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, Albano Martins was a teacher in secondary school and later at Fernando Pessoa University in Porto. Albano Martins is the author of works such as The Gold of the Day ( 1979 ), The Scaldating Wrenches ( 1983 ), A Hill for the Lips ( 1993 ) and Red Written ( 1999 ). In 1986, it was distinguished by the Brazilian Society of Language and Literature. The first book, Secura Verde, dates from 1950 and the second, Heart of Bussola, from 1967, then published regularly. « I had to work a lot to be a teacher », the poet said in March 2009 when he was honored in 1. the Tertúlia de Poesia Primavera, in Vila Nova de Gaia. So there is an interruption in the work, in the 1950s / 60s. in this homage session for its 80 years, transcribed in the blog of the Municipal Library of Gaia, Albano Martins said that he did not like to speak in literary career. « Poets have no literary career», he said. «Write because writing is a necessity, because it is imperative to write. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Albano Martins was involved with the group of the Tree magazine and was a collaborator of the Colóquio-Letras and the New Renaissance. In 1998 he received the Grand Literary Translation Prize for the Translation of General Canto by Pablo Neruda ( Campo das Letras, 1998 ) and in 2012 the Great Literary Translation Prize of the Portuguese Association of Translators / Portuguese Society of Authors for the Translation of the Antology of Classical Greek Poetry ( Editions Comparison ). As a translator, he also signed works such as Poemas do Desterro, de Ovidio, Cantico dos Canticos de Salomão (Arvor), or the Cantons de Leopardi ( Editorial Vega ). The Assembly of the Republic pays a deserved tribute to its memory and gives its family a sense of regret. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u297	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 561 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemning the refusal by the Italian Government to authorise the landing of refugees ( BE ). In order to read the vote, Mr Josés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 10 June the newly elected Italian Government, through its Ministers of the Interior, Matteo Salvini, and the Infrastructure and Transport, Danilo Toninelli, denied the landing of the ship MS Aquarius, operated by the Franco-German NGO SOS Méditerranée, in cooperation with the Doctors Without Borders. On board there were 629 migrants, including 123 unaccompanied minors, 11 babies and 7 pregnant women, who had been rescued from the sea the day before and who had been drifting in international waters for many days. These people, who managed to escape dramatic situations of torture and violence and who seek full living conditions in European soil, were unnecessarily forced to remain in an overcrowded ship where water and food were scarce. This resolution by the Italian Government was based on unacceptable xenophobic decisions. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns and repudiates the decision of the Italian Government to refuse the landing of the refugees of the MS Aquarium ship and calls for such situations not repeated in the future. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u299	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PS deputy Vitalino Canas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u300	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u301	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u302	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u303	Of course. Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u304	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u305	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u306	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies Miguel Morgado and Paulo Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u307	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to vote No 564 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemning the refusal of the Governments of Italy and Malta to authorise the landing of 629 migrants on board the vessel Aquarius ( PSD ), which will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last weekend, a ship with 629 refugees on board was prevented from looting in an Italian port by decision of the newly-impossed Government of that country. This act is a clear violation of the Geneva Convention and runs counter to the practice so far exercised by it and by the previous Italian governments. It is equally reprehensible for the Government of Malta to refuse to take men, women and children on board the Aquarius ship who were prevented from entering Italy when they were in a situation of great precariousness and risk on board this ship. Fortunately, the Spanish Government has responded quickly and has agreed to host these 629 asylum seekers who will still only reach the mainland on Saturday, with all the risks inherent in a journey of several days at sea, under very precarious conditions. Migration pressure in the last five years on Italy is known, given its geographical location, which has not occurred with the same proportion on many other countries of the European Union. The incident with the Aquarius ship reinforces the urgency of a European agreement that makes European immigration and asylum mechanisms more effective. Member States and the European Union should be able to respond to all requests in an effective and speedy manner by making their relocation in a solidarity and, in the case of applications refused, their return. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic condemns the conduct of the Italian Government and the Maltese Government by refusing the landing of 629 migrants on board the Aquarius ship, and urges the Member States and the Community institutions to reform European migration policy mechanisms and to deepen their commitment to solidarity in order to safeguard the safety of migrants in the Mediterranean, thus avoiding such incidents. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u309	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] Let us turn to vote No 567 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemning policies that violate the rights of immigrants and refugees ( CFP ). I would like to ask Mrs Idália to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « As the situation now taking place in Italy — with the unacceptable refusal by the Italian Government to welcome hundreds of people, including children — in recent years the dramatic situations of thousands of migrants and refugees in the Mediterranean have been repeated, transformed into a huge cemetery. The European Union has implemented policies for migrants and refugees who disrespect their rights. The complaint by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees of the Agreement between the European Union and Turkey is recalled. In addition to these agreements with several countries, the European Union has promoted other measures within its policy for migrants and refugees — many of which originate in countries that are victims of destabilization operations and wars of aggression supported by the European Union — such as return / expulsion, the selected Blue Card or the construction of centres of « retention », whether in countries that are members of the European Union, or in other countries. A European Union policy for migrants and refugees, deeply inhuman, selective and exploitative — synthesized in the concept of 'European Union fortitude' — which has contributed to the growth of xenophobia and the extreme right forces. The European Union also uses the human drama of thousands of migrants and refugees to promote their militarization and the creation of a so-called ‘Guarda de Fronteira e Costeira’ which would usurp sovereign powers of States. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic : Condemns the policies of the European Union which disregard the rights of migrants and refugees, that the situation now taking place in Italy is an expression; Demands respect for the rights of migrants and refugees, enshrined in international law; It calls for the end of interference and aggression in international relations, respect for the sovereignty and independence of States and the rights of peoples, including economic and social development, and international relations not based on the imposition of political and economic dependence, but based on peace, social progress, cooperation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u311	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We turn to vote No 562 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — From praise to the Portuguese athletes for the results achieved at the Canoeing Europe Championship ( CDS-PP ), which will be read by Mr. Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « After the brilliant result achieved in the World Cup in Szeged, Hungary, with two gold medals and one silver, Canoist Fernando Pimenta again climbed to the podium, winning three medals at the European Championship of Canoage in Belgrade. The athlete won a European champion, winning the Gold Medal in K1 1000, which was added to the Silver Medal in K1 5000 and the Bronze Medal in K1 500. At the so-called Championship, Canoists Teresa Portela and Joana Vasconcelos consecrated European champions in K2 200 meters. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, greets and congratulates the Portuguese athletes who participated in the competition, exalting the results achieved by Fernando Pimenta and Teresa Portela and Joana Vasconcelos. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u313	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is vote No 566/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greetings for the realization of the United States-South Korea Summit ( CDS-PP ), which will be read by Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u314	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last June 12, the first summit was held in Singapore between the President of the United States of America ( USA ) and the President of the North Korea State Council. Like what was recorded at the summit before that, between the leaders of the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea on 27 April of this year, and which culminated in the signing of the Panmunjom Declaration, the practical results of the Singapore summit constitute the product of a preparatory and diplomatic work marked by the creation of conditions of understanding and dialogue indispensable to the stabilization of the Korean peninsula. The best proof of this is the compromise expressed — on a consensual basis — in the joint declaration signed between the two countries, whereby the North Korean regime undertakes to complete the denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula and the US authorities to ensure security assurances to that country. It is true that all efforts will now have to confirm the general terms of the joint declaration of Singapore, but the political significance of this meeting shows a turning point between the two countries, in the name of peace, prosperity and security. The Assembly of the Republic therefore welcomes the positive results achieved at the summit between the US and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and calls for all necessary initiatives in the near future to comply with the general terms of Singapore's joint declaration. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u315	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 569 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Congratulations on the initiatives and efforts to ensure stable and lasting peace in the Korean Peninsula ( CFP ). I would like to ask Mrs Idália to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Since the beginning of the year important initiatives and efforts have been promoted to prevent the escalation of tension and confrontation and to ensure a stable and lasting peace on the Korean Peninsula, which is an example of the Panmunjom Declaration, signed on 27 April, between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea ( DPRK ) and the Republic of Korea. The holding of the Summit of 12 June in Singapore between Kim Jong Un, President of the DPRK State Affairs Committee, and Donald Trump, President of the United States, may represent another step towards a peaceful solution to a conflict that has been raging for more than 65 years, maintaining a powerful military device in South Korea. While not forgetting that agreements between the DPRK and the USA were established in the past, which were not subsequently respected and met—in particular by the USA—in the joint declaration of this last summit are made commitments such as: the establishment of new relations ; the joint effort to build a lasting, stable and peaceful regime in the Korean Peninsula ; or the work towards the complete denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula. The US commitment to suspend its military manoeuvres with the DPRK, which Trump considered to be a « provocation », is also noted. Considering the greater importance of continuing initiatives towards the implementation of effective security assurances for the DPRK, with a view to ensuring peace on the Korean Peninsula, free from nuclear weapons and foreign military forces, the Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary session: 1 — Welcomes the initiatives and efforts for dialogue and negotiation with a view to normalizing relations and to a stable and lasting peace on the Korean Peninsula and in the region; 2 — Calls on the Portuguese Government to repudiate acts of interference, pressure and threat that disregard the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and to support measures which, in respect of the sovereignty of the Korean people, contribute to the peace and peaceful reunification of Korea. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u317	There is a request from the PS to vote separately on the points that have just been read and so will be done. Let us therefore begin by voting on point 1 of this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1696 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the date of the relocation of the President of the Republic to Moscow, Russian Federation ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote together on three requests submitted by the PS, with the consent of the Government, by the CFP and the BE, for a period of 60 days, to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, of Bill No 131 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the Law on Local Finance and the projects of lein.o 551 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Local Finance Act ( PCP ) and 883/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the financial autonomy of municipalities and introduces judicial measures in municipal taxes ( seventh amendment to the Financial Regime of Local Authorities and Intermunicipal Entities and 33 ). the amendment to CIMI ) ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the bill and bills thus come down for 60 days to 5. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 134 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 151 / 2015 of 11 September 2015 recalibrating the full production of effects of the Budget Framework Act. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we will now vote for the General Account of the State of 2016. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the CDS-PP and the abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 119 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the cyberspace security legal regime, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1148. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 869 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — For the implementation of a system of incentive and storage of plastic, glass and aluminium (PAN) beverages. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u318	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u319	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u320	Mr President, it is only to announce a declaration of vote by the Greens on this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u321	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 882 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Implements a system of storage, return and return of beverage packages (recoverable tara) and creates the respective collection system by means of incentive (first amendment to the unified waste flow regime) ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CFP.]] We shall then vote on draft resolution No 1016 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Awareness campaigns for waste reduction and selective deposition appropriate to recycling ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to wait just a moment before we proceed to the vote. [[Pause.]] Since two draft resolutions on the same subject are then included in the script, their vote will generally be the result of the new rules. Let us therefore begin by voting, in general, on draft resolution No 1442 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The integration of EMEF into the CP — defends the future of the company and the railway sector ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u322	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u323	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u324	Mr President, to inform the Bureau that we will make a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u325	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a question which supports me regarding the next vote, and which I would like to share with you: the draft resolution No 1016/ XIII has been rejected ( 3 ). ( a ) another draft resolution on this subject remains, which therefore justifies a vote not generally, but a final vote. Do we agree with that?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u326	The projects aren't even matching! They're both PCP and they're no match!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u327	Therefore, let us finally vote on draft resolution No 1443 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By a National Plan of Railway Flying Material ( CFP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1658 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Consecrates September 4 as National Psychological Day ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u328	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u329	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u330	Mr President, it is to inform that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u331	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1671 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — More health care for the population of Our Lady of Fatima, Aveiro Town Hall ( BE ). [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 2 PS (Philipe Neto Brandão and Porfírio Silva) and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to wait a moment before we proceed to the vote. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u332	Mr President, if you will excuse me, the next two draft resolutions have to be voted on generally because they are on the same subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u333	There is, however, one question I would like to ask: since we will generally vote on draft resolutions Nos 1565 and 1666 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), requests for point breakdown required by the PSD and PS are not justified. Consequently, these requests shall be without effect, in accordance with their respective bases.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u334	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u335	That's how we'll do it. We then proceeded to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1565/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By the correct application of Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u336	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u337	Mr President, we shall generally vote on this matter, and I would therefore ask you to await the conclusion of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u338	Of course, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u339	Mrs. Members, therefore, the general vote on draft resolution No 1666/ XIII ( 3 ) is followed. ( a ) — By monitoring the effective application of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August, as amended by Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( Scientific Employment ) ( PCP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u340	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u341	May I announce the result of the vote, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u342	Before Mr. President does so, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u343	Is it to correct the sense of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u344	Mr President, with regard to this draft resolution, we had envisaged a point vote in which we would vote in favour of point 1 and abstain from points 2, 3 and 4. Therefore, you confront us with a position in which we cannot vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u345	Mr President, recently I had the opportunity to explain, with your express consent, as we have all witnessed, that this draft resolution would be voted on in general, so there would be no breakdown by points. We shall therefore, in general, vote on draft resolution No 1666/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By monitoring the effective application of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August, as amended by Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( Scientific Employment ) ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] Draft resolutions 1565 and 1666 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) fall to 8.The Commission. Mr. Hélder Amaral, recently asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u346	Mr President, it is to announce that the CDS board will present a statement of vote on the votes we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u347	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we turn to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft resolutions Nos 1421 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures to the Government for the requalification of the Basic and Secondary School of Rebordosa ( Walls ) ( PCP ), 1451 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In defense of the High School of Rebordosa, in the municipality of Paredes ( BE ), 1547 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the Basic and Secondary School of Rebordosa ( PSD ) and 1569/ XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for the urgent re-qualification and rehabilitation of the Basic and Secondary School of Rebordosa ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u348	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u349	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u350	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u351	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft resolutions Nos 1060 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Due to the necessary and urgent recovery intervention of the National Road 114 ( Montemor-o-Novo / Coruche section ) ( PSD ) and 1661 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that a study be conducted for an intervention between Montemor-o-Novo and Santana do Mato ( EN 114 ) ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Health Committee on the drafts of lein.os 726 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the use of the plant, substances and preparations of cannabis for medicinal purposes ( BE) and 727 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — For the admissibility of use of cannabis for medicinal purposes ( PAN). The authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of this text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] In the meantime, the Bureau was informed that, with regard to this vote, the parliamentary groups of the CFP and BE will make oral statements at the end of the voting period. We are now voting for the plenary of the indicative votes in the special session of the Commission with regard to the replacement text we have just voted on. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall final vote of the said replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We moved on to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft law No 813 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and construction of university residences ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, Mr Duarte Pacheco will also take note of an opinion by the Ethics Sub-Commission, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u352	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of Judge 1 of the Labour Court of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Case No 17383 / 17.6T8PRT, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José Moura Soeiro ( BE ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u353	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ending the voting period, we moved on to the previously announced explanations of vote on the replacement text relating to the drafts of lein.o 726 and 727 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). To this end, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u354	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The replacement text for the drafts of lein.o 726 and 727 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), today approved, is far from the original initiatives presented by BE and the NAP, safeguarding essential issues posed in proposals from the CFP, regarding the safety and health of patients and compliance with scientific and clinical issues in the use of cannabis medicines and preparations. The CFP reaffirms that regulation of the therapeutic use of cannabis cannot, in any circumstances, be used to legitimize or promote its recreational use, neglect the updating of the scientific study of the effects of cannabis consumption on the health of citizens or decrease public investment in the prevention and resources of public services in the area of drug addiction. The final text is no longer advanced with regard to scientific research or regulatory aspects because PS, BE and PSD rejected the CFP proposals in this regard. They also remain doubtful as they have opted for a definition of the substances based on plantcanabis which, in conjunction with the article on arrest and transport, may result in confusion with very different purposes of medicinal or therapeutic purposes. It is up to the CFP that the text adopted today provides for Infarmed's intervention in the authorisation for the introduction and marketing of cannabis-based medicinal products and preparations, as well as the fact that this institute is responsible for assessing the currently existing cannabis preparations, determining those that are in a position to be used for therapeutic and medicinal purposes, or that the Military Laboratory may assume responsibilities in the production of cannabis-based medicinal products and preparations, as with methadone, and also that the prescription of cannabis-based medicines or preparations for children and disabled or prohibited persons is prescribed for those who have and confirm legal protection. The withdrawal of BE and PAN proposals for autoculture as a result of widely stated rejection in hearings and opinions received during the specialty process is also indicated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u355	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, also has the floor for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u356	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On January 11, 2018, the Left Block brought to discussion a bill for the legalization of cannabis for medicinal purposes. We said that a law was needed to create access and because there was more than scientific evidence that showed that this use for medicinal purposes was safe and brought benefits to patients. In the specialty process, we found that many patients who wait for this legalization to be able to access the therapy they need and we also found that, although many times there was no need for specific legislation, it was necessary and urgent because this therapy was not reaching anyone and was inaccessible in our country. We found that, in the process of specialty, the various hearings we did gave reason to the Left Block so much that parties that initially said there was no need for any law, that no legislation was necessary on this matter, such as the Portuguese Communist Party, now also ended up approving the bill that was voted here, and still well. Mr President, in conclusion, I would also like to say that in the initial initiative of the Left Block we naturally anticipate the role of Infarmed. He was redoubled in the final version, we voted in favour of it, but he has always been there since the beginning. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-15.u357	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, having finished our work today, I inform you that the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 20 June, for 15 hours. We will hold the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, which will follow the preparatory debate of the next European Council, under Article 4 ( a ). the European Union Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation Act, as well as the discussion and adoption of the annual report sent by the Government ( Portugal in the European Union — 2017 ), as provided for in Article 4 ( b ) and ( d ). that of the same Law, which also has the participation of the Prime Minister. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 26 minutes.]]
