ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority will be in favour of determining the opening of the galleries. I also ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to make the appropriate announcements to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the projects of lein.os 858 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Dematerialization of dissertations, theses and other works for the award of academic degrees ( The Greens ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 859 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the holding of a awareness campaign and a new voluntary delivery period of firearms with a view to disarming the society ( The Greens ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 860 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the Extraordinary Income Program for Persons with Disabilities in Public Administration ( PEIPDAP ) ( CDS-PP ), 861 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the obligation to hire 2 % of workers with functional diversity ( BE), 862 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repeals the change in the age limit of the driving licence for drivers of categories D1, D1E, D, DE, and EC, as amended by Decree-Law No 40 / 2016 of 29 July ( BE ), 863 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repeal of the Supplementary to the Municipal Property Tax ( AIMI ) ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 864 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Single Persons Tax Code for the deduction of charges for young people's property up to 30 years of age with lease contracts ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 865 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the use of digital devices for personal use and allows digital photography in public libraries and archives ( PS ) and 866 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Changes in the special rate of residential income ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission. Parliamentary assessment No 64 / XIII was also included in the Bureau ( 3 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 23 / 2018 of 10 April amending the form of distribution of net results of social games exploited by the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa ( PSD ). I also refer to the entry into the Bureau of draft resolutions 1567 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government use all available mechanisms to prevent the purchase of the Media Capital Group by Altice ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1568/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the effectiveness and reassessment of the Military Military Merit Assessment Regulation ( CFP ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 1569/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for the urgent re-qualification and rehabilitation of the Basic and Secondary School of Rebordosa ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1570 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotion of public employment for persons with disabilities and measures to access vocational training and employment with rights ( CFP ), 1571 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake rehabilitation works at the Basic School 2, 3 Frei Caetano Brandão, in Braga ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1572 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the Póvoa de Lannoso Secondary School ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1573 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and urgent implementation of works at the Amares Secondary School ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1574 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and urgent realization of works in schools of the Group of the Schools of Santos Simões, Guimarães ( PCP ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1575 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the secondary school Father Benjamim Salgado ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1576 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the Basic School 2 / 3 Frei Caetano Brandão ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1577 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the procedure for the preparation of the Special Programme of the Natural Park of Montesinho, in order to involve in its discussion and weighting the authorities and local authorities and agents of the territory concerned ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1578 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and urgent implementation of works at the Barcelinhos Secondary School ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1579 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that measures are taken to enable the inspection procedures to be more efficient for economic operators ( NAPs ), 1580/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to strengthen the means and intervention in the Matos and Bissaya Barreto ( PCP ) Motherhoods Daniel de Matos and Bissaya Barreto ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1581 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures contributing to the improvement of employability of persons with disabilities ( PAN ), 1582/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Transparency in the processes of alienation from the National Fund for the Rehabilitation of State Buildings ( CDS-PP ), 1583/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, in conjunction with the City Hall of Lisbon, undertake the conversion and rehabilitation of buildings belonging to Colina de Santana in Lisbon, so that they may be used for housing, in a programme to be created, or already existing, with a view to renting for moderate housing purposes, mainly for young people and middle class families ( CDS-PP ), 1584 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government raise the real estate of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, with a view to establishing a programme for the rehabilitation or construction of rental properties for moderate housing purposes ( CDS-PP ), 1585 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Dynamization of the National Housing Commission ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1586 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create an income insurance ( PSD ), 1587 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Improvement of the National Rent Balcony ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1588 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a lease allowance in situations of sudden fragility ( PSD ), 1589 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a lease allowance for numerous and single-parent families ( PSD ), 1590 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to dredging of navigation channels and strengthening of donor cords on the coast of Algarve ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1591 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Programme of cooperation between the State and local authorities for the use of public real estate with a view to lease ( PSD ), 1592 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reposition of the age limit for the exercise of the occupation of heavy vehicles driver and guarantee of non-criminalisation in the value of the retirement pension ( The Greens ), 1593 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Monitoring the application of employment quotas for persons with disabilities ( The Greens) and finally Mr President, 1594 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Limitation and adaptation of the transport of live animals ( The Greens ), which falls to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Duarte Pacheco. The 'final' has, in fact, a very expressive meaning. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, our agenda is first of all the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister and then a debate on the Day of Europe. By congratulating the Prime Minister and other members of the Government, we shall thus begin the 15th year debate under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. Mr Fernando Negrão, from the PSD, has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u4	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the Members. Members of the Government. Mr. Prime Minister, I begin with a subject which is indisputable and which, in addition to being indisputable, concerns us all, which has to do with Mr. Eng. José Socrates and which, in the course of communication, is designated as « the Socrates case ». I have a set of very clear and very objective questions, which, I am sure, are on the head and on the thought of a significant number of Portuguese, and I am going to ask you these questions, Prime Minister. First: why did the Socialist Party take more than three years to demarcate José Socrates and his behaviour? [[All right!]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u5	Second: why, even after the prosecution of José Socrates, at the end of last year, did the Socialist Party always keep the same speech? Third question: what is the reason why only now in May 2018 the Socialist Party changes strategy and speech? Fourth question: was it afraid of being electorally contaminated by the behavior of José Socrates and Manuel Piinho? [[All right!]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u6	Fifth question, Prime Minister: for the PS and you, in particular, what is more important, votes and elections or principles and convictions? [[PSD applause.]] It was good, Dr. António Costa, that if he stopped evasive answers or formal pretexts and finally gave a clear explanation about what was going on. Let us hope that it will be today. Let us hope that it will not continue to take refuge in other political actors. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u7	That's where we got here! They have nothing to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u8	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u9	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, this is a debate with the Prime Minister, of course what you would expect me to say to you was that the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party is not here to answer and that the debate with the Socialist Party will be in another situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But if I gave you this answer, you would immediately say: 'There you are! He's taking refuge in formalisms to run away from answering what I'm asking him! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u10	And I'd say very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u11	And he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u12	Therefore, despite the obvious parliamentary disloyalty of your question, I will answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I will not, of course, answer either as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party or as Prime Minister, I will answer as Antonio Costa, in the same quality as I also spoke on the subject during the week. And I tell you this: for many years I have had the same understanding of what should be the interpretation of the principle of separation and interdependence of powers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u13	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u14	You've got days!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u15	in this understanding, I understand that we have a unique system of justice in the world, which has advantages and disadvantages, but has a huge advantage: it assures all citizens that none of us are above the law and that criminal investigation is carried out with all independence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u17	There is another absolutely fundamental principle, which is the presumption of innocence. Today, the status of arguedo, which, as you know, is a statute for the benefit of those who are investigated and for the protection of the rights of those who are investigated, is understood as a judgment of pre-guilty in Portuguese society. I also understood that we should never bring to the public debate what should be discussed on our own premises, which is the court. This is the understanding that I have and that I have always had and, therefore,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] For this reason, regarding the case of Eng. José Socrates, who has been referring, since the first hour, said that, despite the relations of friendship, of comradeship, he understood that the Socialist Party should remain out of this debate and should entrust the judicial system with the investigation and exercise of the right of defence to whom it has the right to defend. This position is the one I have had since the beginning and I have not changed my position on this matter at all. So last week, when I was questioned about the issue, I repeated the same, not letting it hide what is obvious today, yesterday and from the beginning: obviously, if those facts are proven, this is a disgrace to democracy, as well as, if the facts are not proven, it is a good demonstration that the justice system works, which is an honour to our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u18	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, disloyalty is not in Parliament, disloyalty is from you to the Portuguese because you have not answered one of the questions I have raised. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]] Mr. Prime Minister, on 31 December 2014, on his visit to Mr. Eng.o José Socrates in prison, on his way out, he said: "Let justice work in all its values, we want to ensure the principle of presumption of innocence."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u20	You don't know that! They've got nothing else!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u21	Last week and this week we heard senior leaders of the Socialist Party say and cry that they were ashamed of what was going on,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u22	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u23	And you, ex, Dr. António Costa, said you felt dishonored,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u24	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u25	... which means that whoever brought all this matter to the political plane was not the opposition, it was the government, it was the Socialist Party, it was you! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, one more question on this matter, to which he will answer if he so understands: the confessions of shame and dishonor reveal the recognition that something has happened, and something serious has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u26	Oh, my God! What is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u27	And, therefore, I ask you, Prime Minister, whether, after all, bankruptcy was the fault of the crisis or was it the result of disastrous decisions taken by the government to which you belonged, presided over by José Socrates? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u28	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u29	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I invite you to hear the statements I made last week on this subject. I did not, under any circumstances, say that this or that accusation, this or that fact, this or that person was embarrassing me or dishonoring me. I said what anyone can and should say,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u30	Even you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u31	... which is as follows: if those facts were proved in the justice system, this would be a disgrace to democracy,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...as, in the same way, I added that the justice system is based on the value of the independence of research and the presumption of innocence and that, if they are not proven, this demonstrates the functioning of the justice system, which is an honor for our democracy. I do not replace anyone, and much less the justice system, in the judgment of whoever it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u33	And as you know, for the most part, because you have been an illustrious magistrate, but also because you have already been part of a criminal process under other conditions,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u34	...no one has the right to judge anyone other than the magistrate, according to the trial itself, which is the criminal case.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u35	I should have said that years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u36	So on my part, and I believe that on the side of the other people who sit on the bench of the Socialist Party, there has been no change in the position on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the sovereign debt crisis, a phenomenon that, as you know, has not been exhausted in Portugal but has reached several other countries, my understanding today is the same: it is a crisis that has a systemic root in the defective construction of the euro area, which exposed in a way unnecessary countries that were particularly serious in the wake of erratic decisions that the European Union had adopted in 2009 to deal with the Great Depression of 2008. And now, Mr. Member, only for your tranquility, despite everything, I had left the government in 2007 and was no longer part of that government. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u37	But that is not why I have ceased to be a supporter of this government, which I have supported until the last day of the performance of its duties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u38	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u39	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, to reiterate that it was not the PSD that brought back the discussion of the José Socrates case. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u40	He came out of his back and pretended he didn't come in!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u41	We never said a word before we heard the top political leaders of the Socialist Party say they were ashamed of what happened. And, therefore, we are legitimized to discuss this case politically. [[PSD applause.]] Moreover, Mr. Prime Minister — I would say, if I may, Dr. António Costa — and more: this is not the first time the Socialist Party has brought this to the public scene. in a debate in December 2014, Antonio José Seguro accused him of being supported by an invisible party that mixes business and politics. So this wasn't the first time, this has time. [[PS protests.]] The problem is a serious problem, society feels this problem, needs answers to your questions, and the Prime Minister has not answered a single question from which you have been asked. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, let's change the subject to which we hope we have an answer. [[PS protests.]] I would like to be able to continue, but we have other themes, eventually as serious as this, as the fires are.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u42	He didn't answer! You didn't answer any questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u43	With regard to the possibility that no one would wish to repeat what happened in June and October last year, Mr. Prime Minister, of the tragedies that occurred at that time, Mr. President of the Republic said yesterday that he will not be returned to office if that happens, unlike you Exa—and that is revealing—,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u44	... that he said immediately that he would not resign if such a situation repeated. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, I would ask you to clarify to the Portuguese whether your position stems from the fact that your Government has no responsibility for the fires of last year, and even if similar tragedies happen again, if you continue to deny your responsibilities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u45	This PSD work session is way down!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u46	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u47	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I say to you what I have already had the opportunity to say: I always take on my responsibilities and the responsibility of a ruler, when there is a problem, is not to resign but to resolve it. That's what I'll do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u48	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u49	But, Prime Minister, the question is not that, it is not the appearance of the problem, it is the incompetence behind the problem. It is the incompetence and irresponsibility that leads to the problem! [[PSD applause.]] That is the problem, Mr Prime Minister, and that is why I spoke to you recently in principles and convictions. Mr. Prime Minister, we are a few weeks from the beginning of the forest fires. Once again, his government, instead of giving signs of tranquillity to the Portuguese, the signs that have emerged are signs of incompetence and accumulating cases and errors... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u50	...that can only make us worried. I will give you some examples, Prime Minister. The necessary air resources are not yet guaranteed. Today still a newspaper entitled that since 2006 — when you were Minister of Internal Administration — Portugal does not have so few planes to fight fires in May. The Civil Protection audit at the Pedrogão Grande fire revealed serious failures, late responses and disorganization, beyond the report having been hidden for six months, without anyone knowing where it was, and not publicly disclosed. Farmers, entrepreneurs and industry affected by the 2017 fire are still awaiting State aid. last May 1st, the Protection and Relief Intervention Group (GIPS) placed in Sardoal cannot help in the fight against fire for not having available a helicopter and a car all over the land. on Monday, the National Operational Commander of Civil Protection was resigned, only five months after taking possession. In addition, Mr. Prime Minister, we also know today that the Protection and Relief Intervention Group still has no gloves, suits, mobile phones, computers, or beds to be able to rest. Mr. Prime Minister, in view of these revealing signs of whom you have learned nothing from the past, I ask you if we have today, on May 9, a device of fighting properly rigged fires and ready to take action for the fight of tragedies that may occur? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u51	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u52	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, as you know on 21 October last year, the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution which fully implemented the recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission, set up in this Assembly of the Republic. Since then, we have been developing and executing the decisions made. One of these decisions is a significant strengthening of the Protection and Relief Intervention Group, which was set up in 2006. at this moment, what we are discussing is the duplication of the intervention capacity of this group, which has been formed and will be equipped, at an accelerated pace, because raising a force of this dimension, which has not been reinforced for 10 years and is now being reinforced these months, is a record-time work that we are running. We will, therefore, continue to comply with the resolutions, comply with the National Operational Directive, so that the device is in the best possible conditions in order to face the threat when it takes place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u53	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u54	Mr President, Prime Minister, I cannot but tell you that this is the standard answer you have given to all our fire questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u55	But don't solve the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u56	And the problems are piled up, the problems are renewed and we see no political or operational capacity to solve these problems. Yesterday it was difficult to hear the Minister of Internal Administration in the Commission replying to the questions asked by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. He was sad because he didn't answer a single question! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u57	It was like now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u58	It was painful because it did not have a concrete answer to give to the Portuguese, explaining to them what is going on and how the Government is prepared to solve the problems of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u59	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u60	Mr Prime Minister, we do not ask these questions because we are concerned about our political position.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u61	No, no! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u62	No, Mr. Prime Minister! We are worried about the Portuguese, we want to help, Prime Minister! And the question that I leave here to you, to finish my speech,... [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]] Ah! You think it's funny! I don't know what, do I? That smile is revealing too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u63	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u64	The question that remains here — and I conclude, Mr President — is the following: we want to help. Tell us, Prime Minister, how can we help? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u65	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u66	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, allow me to tell you, with all honesty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u67	Franchise? Oh, my God! That's to laugh!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u68	... that the two themes you have chosen for this debate say everything about the state of the PSD and what is the true position of the PSD in the political debate in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]] But I will not do the favor of accompanying either in tone or emotion. I will keep the CL-I-I-I-I, simply, serene, determined, as the Government is fulfilling its obligation, as we were throughout this winter untiring to mobilise the country for the great task of cleaning the forests, as we are doing, in a huge effort to create the means and strengthen the conditions for implementing the report of an independent technical committee, created, in good time, in this House, at the initiative of the PSD, and approved unanimously. By the way, the PSD does not link any to its recommendations, unless there is anyone, the Government, who respects the technical opinion endorsed by the Commission established by the Assembly of the Republic. We will be serene and determined, without agitation and without gesticulation. Good afternoon, Mr. Deputies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u69	Mr. Fernando Negrão is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u70	Mr. President, I know this isn't a regiment figure, but it's just to tell Mr. Prime Minister... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u71	Mr Fernando Negrão, I ask you only for a moment. Ó Mr. Deputy, understand,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u72	I understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u73	... has sufficient parliamentary experience, which I can only give you the word if you invoke the regimental figure for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u74	Mr President, the regimental figure... I just want to wave to Mr. Prime Minister and say - good afternoon, Prime Minister. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u75	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u76	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't give the floor to anyone else.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u77	Sad figure, sir! ...I should not have given you the floor, Mr President!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u78	I would ask your attention, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to take this opportunity to inform the House that there is a parliamentary delegation from the Islamic Republic of Iran, chaired by the Chairman of the National Security and Foreign Affairs Committee of the respective Parliament, to whom I greet. [[Upstairs, standing, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN.]] We now turn to the PS Parliamentary Group, but first I ask the House to help create conditions for the debate to continue. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u79	Mr President, Prime Minister, the PS Parliamentary Group does not come here for a party debate, which it does in other seats, comes here for a parliamentary debate on the missions of the Government and Parliament. If others do not understand their responsibilities in this House, we do not follow them in this drift. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the Government has acted strategically to ensure that science, technology, innovation and higher education, in their systemic linkage, make knowledge a decisive instrument for economic development and social and territorial cohesion. One of the crucial aspects of this strategy is the fight against precarious work in higher education and science, with the diploma of scientific employment, with the so-called 'transitional system of polytechnic education' and with PREVPAP (An extraordinary programme for the regularization of precarious links in public administration ), which also applies here to workers who, cumulatively, meet permanent needs and do not have an adequate link, without ever circumventing the statutory rules of careers, since PREVPAP was designed precisely to enhance careers. In order to change an inherent logic that misconceives precariousness as a management facility, the Government promotes a structural fight against precariousness, in particular with the revision of the legal regime of degrees and diplomas, which makes it dependent on the accreditation of cycles of studies of valorization and sustainable career development. However, Prime Minister, the real promotion of scientific employment is the creation of more scientific employment. The Stimulus to Scientific Employment program is what you are doing, with several lines of action, with competitions for individual applications for scientific employment plans in institutions, strengthening and creating R & D units, R & D projects, reinforcing all these modalities, scientific employment, with the goal of the 5000 doctoral research contracts up to the end of the Legislature. But the sustained creation of scientific employment goes through the modernisation of the economy, through innovation and science. The year 2016 was a year of turn: the R & D expenditure, which had declined since 2010, has increased again, and there we resumed convergence; it increased the weight of researchers in the active population, and the hiring increased more in private than in the public, and we can ask: why? Because public investment has been driven by private investment, because public policies count, because this government has once again bet on strengthening and diversifying institutions, on the territorial roots of knowledge, linking higher education, research and social and economic activities promoting cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u81	For example, with the Programme for Modernization and Valuation of Polytechnic Institutes, but also with the INTERFACE programme, I highlight here the vector collaborative laboratories, being six already created in areas as different as mountain cultures, Portuguese wine and wine, digital transformation of industry, integrated forest and fire management, the Atlantic, green technologies and products of the ocean. Of course, there is a lot of way to walk, and great challenges persist. For example, for the country to achieve the overall investment target in R & D from 3 % of GDP by 2030, we need to increase the overall investment share in national R & D investment by two thirds. This is due to the continuation of the strategies for creating interfaces between different institutions and also, for example, to address the acceleration of mutations caused by new forms of automation, digital, artificial intelligence and the economic use of large volumes of data, we need to develop much social investment in advanced adult education, in return, whenever necessary, to school and higher education, so that the transformation of jobs does not result in unemployment or exclusion. Mr Prime Minister, the question that I am asking you is the following: the preparatory work is under way for the next multiannual financial framework of the European Union, and because the best phases of our European membership are at times of convergence between national interests and common interests, to what extent can we expect our strategy to put knowledge to the service of social innovation to the European framework to find an ecosystem conducive to national objectives, and how does the Government intend to act with this objective? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u82	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u83	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, the development strategy we have presented to the country has innovation as the engine of development. Innovation requires continued investment across the knowledge line. It must begin with the universalization of pre-school to all three-year-olds and must be concluded with all mechanisms for transferring knowledge to the business fabric. It is this whole row that we have to work and there is no better way to transfer knowledge to the business fabric than to strengthen qualified employment. Therefore, more and better employment is inseparable from this strategy. Scientific employment is obviously essential because without investment in science, without application of scientific knowledge, it is not possible to derive the benefits of this knowledge. Over the years, the country has accumulated inadequate practices to replace contracts, which were not allowed or had no framework where they could be, by the most different precarious solutions and, even, the use of scholarships, which should be studied, as a way to finance real employment contracts. At the same time, today we have three instruments to operate: firstly, the competition for individual applications, within the framework of the FCT ( Foundation for Science and Technology), which has already closed on 16 February and which has received more than 4000 applications for the 500 vacancies which are open; secondly, the institutional contest for more than 400 research projects, which ended on 22 March ; and thirdly, a contracting mechanism, which the institutions may open by August 2018 on the opening of the competitions necessary for the hiring of persons who, by carrying out activities as pocketholders, effectively carry out subordinate work activities. I myself, even today, had the opportunity to contact and meet with several scientific institutions personally, as I have kept in touch with several Mrs. Recitors, with a view to boosting the application of this project. This process runs in parallel with the general mechanism in administration in relation to PREVPAP, which also applies to university tissue. It is therefore essential here also to combat precariousness, because the more stable we will have in research and its application to the service of an innovation strategy as a driver of development in our economy and society. That is the strategy we have been developing. As you have recalled here, we have a clear goal, which is to create 5000 scientific jobs until the end of the legislature, and that is what we have been working on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u84	I now give the floor to Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, we know last week the European Commission's proposal on the overall financial envelope for the multiannual financial framework. at first reading, it seems that this position puts the Portuguese interests in a difficult situation, because, if I may, I will compare it with the preliminary position defended by the Portuguese Government. The Portuguese Government defends the maintenance of the cohesion and agriculture funds, the strengthening of a set of centralised management programmes, which correspond to priorities such as migration or defence, and the defence of the Portuguese Government — in addition to the proposals of the European Parliament — as a consequence, since what was being defended was an increase in the overall financial volume of the funds, the increase in resources available to the European Union, in particular in the form of tax own resources. These were, in several cases, measures that would justify themselves as taxes that are necessary for strengthening fiscal equity within the European Union, such as the taxation of digital platforms, where a European tax would replace the non-existent taxation of this huge wealth creation at national level. What is given to us in the Commission's original proposal is that the overall level of funding available for the multiannual financial framework remains, more or less, in nominal terms, having effectively strengthened the centralised management programmes, but since the Commission has not given any development to the tax own resources proposals, thus losing an opportunity to strengthen tax justice in the Union, what happens is that the increase in centralised management programmes is carried out at the expense of a significant decrease in both cohesion and agricultural funds. Mr Prime Minister, since it seems to me that the Commission had a lack of ambition and a sense of opportunity to contribute to greater fiscal justice and greater resources at community level, I ask: what will now be the orientation that the Portuguese Government will follow in the negotiation, so that it is still possible to safeguard Portugal's interests in this area? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u86	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u87	Mr President, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, the negotiation of the next multiannual financial framework, together with the reform of economic and monetary union, are two central issues for Portugal within the framework of the European Union. And the multiannual financial framework is even the central issue for the development of the country in the coming years, taking into account the high dependence of the Structural Funds on their investment capacity. What we can say about what is known of the Commission's proposal is that it is a bad starting point. We all knew that the drawing of the next multiannual financial framework would be difficult: on the one hand, the exit of the United Kingdom deprived the European Union of an important contributor; on the other hand, we knew that there were new priorities taken by the European Union and that they lacked funding. The challenge of managing migration flows and integration of migrants, strengthening counter-terrorism measures and the need to invest in innovation and knowledge as an essential condition for managing the future of digital society were new dimensions that required the allocation of new sources of funding. In view of this, there was a need for greater ambition and, from the outset, we said that in order to respond to these new realities they could not serve as an adjustment valve neither cohesion policy nor the common agricultural policy. The common agricultural policy and cohesion policy are part of the identity of the European Union and both have proved well. And the worst thing an institution can do is to abandon what has already proved right to come to finance what it again wants to do. Now, we want the European Union to do what it has to do again, but not sacrifice anything that it has done well so far. And that requires two things: on the one hand, an increase in national contributions, and on the other hand Portugal has readily assumed the willingness to increase its national contribution to the European Union, and Commissioner Oettinger has initially proposed an increase of 1, 2 % and the European Parliament has proposed an increase of 1, 3 %, but we should all take the commitment to contribute more to having a better European Union ; on the other hand, the strengthening of the Union's own resources through the taxation of a number of activities which are difficult to pay at national level. Digital platforms are the best example of this, but financial transactions are certainly also an example that we must not and cannot ignore, as well as the taxation of particularly polluting activities and which are contrary to the mobilising objective which Europe has assumed, the decarbonisation of society as a whole and the fulfilment of the objectives of the Paris Agreement. What we have seen in the Commission's proposal is that, rather than betting on strengthening the Community budget, it proposes to maintain everything as it was, with the difference in strengthening, and well, investment in science and to create an interesting mechanism to support reforms — Portugal, moreover, it has proposed and has defended this mechanism — so that structural problems are resolved and the convergence of the Member States is encouraged, which implies a very significant cut in the common agricultural policy and an even more significant cut in cohesion policy. National frameworks are not yet known. We know that the overall proposal points to a cut of 5 % in expenditure on agricultural policy and 10 % in expenditure on cohesion policy. Whatever the situation — and there are those who suspect that the cuts in Portugal will be greater than the average — we consider this proposal to be a bad starting point, so we cannot accept it. Therefore, the position we are starting with is, as always, constructive and in line with the objectives we define: not to cuts in cohesion policy; not to cuts in agricultural policy, especially to cuts in the second pillar of agricultural policy; to strengthen investment in research and innovation; to strengthen the ability to integrate migrants into European societies; to have an active management of migratory flows, notably through programmes to support the development of the African continent; and to invest in combating terrorism, which is a global threat to all of us. What this Europe needs is to have a budget in accordance with its ambition. what Europeans really do not like is that Europe continues to promise them more than what, indeed, is capable of fulfilling. That is what disillusions Europeans, that is what generates populism, that is what generates anti-Europeanism. If we want a strong Europe, we need to have a budget as much as we want and we all need it to be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u88	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u89	Mr President, Prime Minister, the doctors are on strike ; this month began with another strike, that of the operational assistants, and is marked by the end of May the strike of the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. In March, the nurses were making strike. What all these workers want, like users, is to defend the National Health Service. And the Minister of Health has already acknowledged that the claims are fair, but he says that there are no resources. Well, that's not true. We have EUR 800 million that are being used to go beyond the target of the deficit that was already agreed on. Therefore, there are resources, what it is necessary for the Minister to decide whether he wants to be Mário Centeno or Minister of Health and whether the Government decides whether it wants to be part of the solution or the problem, because health workers are certainly the fundamental part of the solution. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, I am now referring to the prevention of fires, because I believe it is essential that we deal with this issue in some serious way. We cannot repeat the 2017 tragedy in the summer of 2018. however, there are problems in preparation: the National Operational Commander resigned and air and logistics means are delayed. We do not ignore that there are those who bet on blackmail as a form of business and we know that the same airlines operating in Portugal have already been investigated in Spain and that there are more contradictory interests that move in this world. It is up to the government to denounce and act. And I think it is important for the country today to have a word of tranquility on the part of the Prime Minister about what it counts with. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u90	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u91	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, let's start with the end. As you know, one of the key decisions taken was to end this concept of « firetime ». So what we are doing right now is anticipating what was planned to happen later in previous years. at this time, of the whole device that has been defined for this year—and is superior to that which we have in previous years—, I believe that only eight air resources are not yet identified the possibility of contracting. As for all the others, they are hired, in fact, the generality of them is already in national soil, and await the Court of Auditors' visa to be able to operate. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that the law itself provides that, if necessary, air resources can act even without the prior approval of the Court of Auditors if their intervention is essential. In other words, if there is a fire today where these air resources have to act, the law provides that they can act legally even without having the prior visa of the Court of Auditors. The main thing was that they were here, because if they weren't, they couldn't work. Therefore, we are in a position to act, if necessary. Mrs. Deputy, the country has not yet noticed, why does it only realize when televisions go to the ground, but you know how many fires have been extinguished on the last weekend? 222 fires have been extinguished.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u92	It certainly wasn't airborne, because they can't fly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u93	So the system exists and is responding. They will ask: "Will the Court of Auditors give a visa? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I cannot anticipate the decision of the Court of Auditors, but what we know is that we broke the circle that existed regarding the difficulties of contracting and it was possible to go to Italy for 20 air resources that we had not been able to find in the tenders we opened so that we could have the means necessary to manage the device in accordance with what is planned. Madam Member, on the first issue you have raised, I do not think it is worth dramatising the existence of strikes, because they are part of the essence of democracy. None of us believe that the strike is not part of the essence of democracy. It is clear that we are well aware of the need to do what is necessary at the same time, strengthening the means of the National Health Service and improving the conditions of all those who work in the State. Now, over these two and a half years, we have been doing both things, because we have eliminated wage cuts, we have eliminated the surcharge, we have rejected the 35 hour schedule, we have rejected the holidays that had been cut and we have rejected the progress in careers this year. Therefore, we have come to re-establish normality in the state, as well as the rights of workers in the public sector. In addition, we have also been strengthening the number of people working in the National Health Service. Today, there are more than 8,000 people working in the National Health Service than there was at the beginning of this legislation. The honourable Member can tell me that they are not enough yet, and of course we will not, in fact, continue to do so. As has already been clarified, we do not have a EUR 800 million strike, which is less than EUR 800 million in this year's deficit. The strike we have is due to good budgetary management, which has made us pay less interest and we need less money, which is good news, and with this EUR 74 million strike, which is what we thought we saved interest, we will increase the reinforcement of funds. The Stability Programme also provides for an increase of EUR 350 million in staff expenditure in the coming years. Of course, it is not only EUR 350 million for the National Health Service, because there are also shortages in public school, there are shortages in security forces, there are shortages in social security services, there are shortages in the shops of the citizen, there are shortages in multiple public services. So what we have to do is, of course, balance these EUR 350 million between the different staff recruitment needs and the legitimate expectations of each of our current public employees to see their income improved. It is with this balance sheet that we will invest EUR 350 million in staff over the next few years. We will do so and certainly in the next State budget we will have concrete options to decide on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u94	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u95	Mr. President, Prime Minister, every late investment in the SNS is wasted money in a contract with a private to do the service that the SNS should do. Each late investment in public services translates into an increase in our social deficit. And I remember that we have 2, 4 million people in Portugal living below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u97	But, Prime Minister, I would like to bring you another subject: bank secrecy. The proposals to change bank secrecy are as old in this Parliament as the arrival of the Left Block in the Assembly of the Republic and have been plunged by several majorities. Furthermore, only the PCP was held in the vote in favour of lifting the bank seal in 2005, 2006 and 2009, only to refer to years in which the PS would prevent this change. It is also true that there have been advances that have facilitated access to information to the tax administration, and we recognize these advances, but the problem remains: it always depends on suspicion and cannot be used the lifting of the bank seal to detect tax leaks. That is, in Portugal, who fights fraud and corruption is working in the dark. at the beginning of this legislature, the government made a decree that allowed tax access to bank accounts with higher balances, but that diploma was vetoed by the President of the Republic because of the financial and economic instability at the time - I think we will all agree that we are now living a very different moment. Even the President of the Republic, who has vetoed this decree, is now calling for a greater fight against corruption and economic crime. Now, we know that there is no fight against corruption, economic crime and tax evasion without following the trail of money. So the question I have to ask you is whether the government will remain silent on bank secrecy, on behalf of the President, even when the President is demanding changes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u98	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is not true that the Assembly of the Republic has dropped all its initiatives. All the proposals I made as Minister of Justice in 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 were adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u100	The Block's ones, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u101	For example, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão proposed an extension so that the Public Prosecutor himself could break the bank seal on his own initiative and that proposal was approved. New measures to reduce bank secrecy have already been adopted in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u102	The Left Block have all been rejected, as you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u103	Maybe the block guys have had less luck, but the ones I've proposed are better luck. Madam Member, I am not going to comment in public, because I never do so, the discussions between the Government and the President of the Republic, but when I understand that there are political conditions to resume legislation, which has been vetoed in due course by the President of the Republic, the Government will, of course, resume the legislative initiative, because we have not changed our view on the importance of this measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u104	You have the floor, Mrs. Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u105	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is appropriate to amend the law of bank secrecy. I remember that the veto of the President of the Republic did not cover any amendments under the agreement with the United States and the European Union, which, in fact, mechanically, PSD and CDS accepted. In other words, the Portuguese banks now inform Americans and other European countries of more than EUR 50 000 which are European citizens in Portugal, but do not give Portuguese tax information on these accounts when they are Portuguese. It seems aberrant, but actually today the tax only receives information about Portuguese accounts when these accounts are in foreign banks and do not have access to the same information when it comes to Portuguese accounts in Portugal. This discriminatory treatment violates the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and, of course, the sacrosanct European treaties, and makes no sense, because objectively it prevents the fight against tax evasion. According to international studies, Portugal loses every year taxes due from EUR 20 000 to EUR 30 billion in income. With fiscal justice, we would make a much more just and very different country. That is the challenge I want to leave here today, because for the Left Block, we must not wait any longer. On 17 May, therefore, there will be a legislative agenda for the Left Block Parliamentary Group on banking secrecy and we call on all parties to also schedule their proposals on this matter and the Government to follow this process. The Left Block proposes changes to the bank seal to enable the tax authorities to know deposits above EUR 50 000 in order to avoid tax evasion and thus to have equality circumstances between foreign citizens and national citizens with accounts inside and outside the country. On whom nothing is due, the State will be aware of what it already knows today by the statement of IRS. You're only right to fear this change that lives with dirty money or large-scale tax leaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u107	The second objective of our amendment is to enable taxpayers to know the great financial dangers they may be exposed to. We want with this amendment that the Banco de Portugal can and should disseminate the annual reports on the biggest debtors of the bank that are in breach. Parliament is currently debating demands on this subject but, as we all know, because I fear that every committee of inquiry will be required, these requests will be placed on the wall of the bank seal. So you need to move into the law, and let it be to know everything. The PSD calls for the biggest debtors of the General Deposit Box to be known. When you're in charge of public money, we need to know who failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u109	All right! But is there only public money in the General Deposit Box? Don't! The Bank received EUR 2800 million; for BPN it was more than EUR 5000 million of public money, and the account continues to increase. So, the PSD doesn't want to know about BPN's biggest non-compliances? of that bank that had the board of directors equal to a PSD board of ministers? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u110	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u111	With the same tolerance given to the other parties, I shall conclude, Mr President. And from BES, who is so involved in the Socrates scandal but has there been people in all governments in the last 25 years? Oh, my God! It has already been EUR 5000 million and it will be even more. Don't we want to meet? And from BANIF, the protected bank of the Madeira Regional Government? Oh, my God! What about the BCP and the BPI, which had loans of EUR 4500 million public, at the same time as the unemployment allowance and the family allowance were cut? Oh, my God! Don't we want to meet? Let's be consistent: let's have the courage to move...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u112	You must even conclude, Mrs. Member, with tolerance and tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u113	Of course, Mr. President. We have the courage to move in the secrets that only protect those who should not be protected and do so with two objectives: to fight tax evasion and to protect public accounts. One last note in five seconds: Prime Minister Donald Trump decided to withdraw the United States from the nuclear agreement with Iran. It was a mistake, it is dangerous, and Portugal should not be indifferent. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u114	To answer, Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u115	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, on the United States decision on the agreement with Iran we have already taken a public position, condemning that decision and stressing the danger it constitutes, because it is a backward step towards the guarantees of peace in the world. On the kindness of the decree-law of the Government, which was vetoed by the President of the Republic, I thank you for your praise, but, as you will understand, you do not need to convince me of the goodness of the decree-law of the Government. We were convinced and we were still convinced of the kindness of the decree that the Government has submitted and what I can trust is that the honourable Member and the Left Block also help to convince the President of the Republic of kindness of the legislative initiative of the Government and that there are political conditions for it to be adopted. We will certainly all be pleased with a broad consensus on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u116	You now have the floor to Mrs. Mrs. Assumption Cristas from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u117	Mr President, Prime Minister, three months ago, the CDS presented a legislative package in this House very focused on justice, in particular civil justice, administrative justice, fiscal justice and commercial justice, which ultimately affects more daily people and businesses. At the time, I asked what would be the position of the Socialist Party, I did not get an answer, but we kept waiting for proposals that eventually come from all parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u119	We also have proposals entered two years ago, such as that of lobby regulation, in the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, and we continue to hope that they will be given a faster impetus in this Commission. But for all this and for what we can do, we have a fundamental framework, which is the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Now, to move further in the area of justice, we will necessarily have to move in the Constitution. And my question is this: is the Socialist Party available to embark on this challenge? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u120	You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u121	Mr President, Mrs Cristian Assumption, the questions to the Socialist Party should be addressed, as usual, to the Socialist Party's bench. If there is a matter on which no government should pronounce itself is even that of the constitutional review, because it is even the only law in this House where we cannot even have initiative or participation at any level. Therefore, using his word, we cannot 'board' in any revision, because the Constitution deprives the Government of intervening in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u122	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u123	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we are already very used to the fact that Mr Prime Minister likes to wear and strip several skins and to say that he is here as Prime Minister and not as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party and that he has no connection with the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. We already know that, but there is a limit to this positioning. Moreover, Mr. Prime Minister, in this House today, has already exceeded that same limit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u124	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u125	...when I said I was going to take a position not as Prime Minister but how...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u126	Antonio Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u127	...António Costa. But, following your reasoning, there, in this bench, is not António Costa, is the Prime Minister of Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u128	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u129	Therefore, the question I will ask you, Prime Minister, is addressed to the Prime Minister of Portugal. So, after what we have heard in recent times about the position of the Socialist Party, after having seen that there was surprise on the side of various leaders of the Socialist Party — indeed, ministers of his government — about what happened in an earlier government that you, at first, were part of, but had colleagues who participated for a long time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u130	To the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u131	... and we realize there was a surprise, because no one saw anything, no one heard anything, no one noticed anything, I give it cheap and it is not my duty to doubt, it is up to me to ask you, as Prime Minister, the following: if that was so and if it is so, what is Mr. Prime Minister doing internally in his government? Does it or does it not consider it necessary to have an internal scrutiny, monitoring or prevention mechanisms, so that what happened to your socialist government of the past, where it was 2, does not happen now? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u132	To answer, you have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u133	Mr President, Madam Member, I do not know that for any member of the current government there is any situation such as that allegedly happened with respect to members of another government I also participated in. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u134	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u135	Mr President, Prime Minister, the question was not that but rather the following: does it consider it necessary and considers it important to carry out more scrutiny and greater monitoring of the action of the Government, in order to prevent situations apparently overlooked to all those who were in that government again happening? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u136	You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u137	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, frankly, if you have any concrete suggestions, I am available to hear it gladly.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u138	As Prime Minister or as António Costa? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u139	I believe that the situation described in the social communication, involving a former Minister of Economics, left everyone surprised, as the honourable Member would have been equally surprised if there had been this news about some of her former colleagues of government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u140	But there isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u141	Now, I assume that the honourable Member did not know what the sources of income of her different colleagues of government were. That's right! Open... If you have any specific form of scrutiny... I don't know what you mean by that, but if you have any suggestions I'm available to study, because I think it's essential to always strengthen transparency, public scrutiny and trust. However, I cannot have a general suspicion about all human beings because there is a situation where, allegedly, there is a breach that is, at least, ethically censorable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u142	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u143	Mr President, Prime Minister, I should like to say that I am somewhat surprised that, at least with regard to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, a very deep internal scrutiny and audit is not made to realize what happened then, when, moreover, a current minister of this government was, at the time, an advisor to that same office. [[PS protests.]] In any case, I hope that Mr. Prime Minister will be given repeated attention and all the alerts well present, because I am not going through my mind that, as Prime Minister, he can subscribe to what he has already said today, which was the following: if justice has a conclusion in the case of José Socrates, it is a disgrace to democracy—I think it is a disgrace to the Socialist Party—but, if there is another one, it is because it worked well.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u145	Mr. Prime Minister, changing the subject and leaving these alerts on March 15, I asked you here how many air resources were available and ready for the fires... [[Protests by PS MP Filipe Neto Brandão.]] ...and Mr. Prime Minister answered that there were 55 air vehicles, more than those that existed last year and more than those that always existed. I also asked you when these air resources were guaranteed. Following its line of the end of the "fire season", and well, and that we therefore have to be on prevention all year round, I was told that these means were guaranteed all year round. My question is this: what does it tell me today, when we realize that they are not yet guaranteed? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u146	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u147	Mr President, Madam Member, if there has been any illegality in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in any government whatsoever, our judicial authorities are certainly competent to carry out this investigation. Unless you understand that I have greater skill, capacity or competence to do criminal investigation than the Attorney General of the Republic, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Police. If I understand this, I would like to thank you for your compliments but, frankly, in my reading of the Constitution, I find myself unable to carry out criminal investigation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am also sure that if something very serious had happened, who in the meantime was the Minister of Economic Affairs, particularly in his Government, would not fail to have detected and communicated to the competent authorities for the appropriate purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u148	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u149	At least whenever I was a minister and I detected some illegality, or had doubts about legality, I always did the same: I always communicated to the Public Prosecutor's Office or to the Directorate of the Judicial Police. It is here, in fact, a former National Director of the Judicial Police who can testify to him, since I had the opportunity to hand him facts that constituted a grave suspicion of the practice of service crimes on my dependence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, since I have no tendency to assume that others are not at least as serious as I am, I have no doubt that, if I had detected any illegal conduct, who has served as an economic minister in recent years, would not fail to do what was obviously required to do, that it was to denounce this fact to the authorities. As far as air resources are concerned, I have had the opportunity to reply to Mrs Catarina Martins recently, and in the last 10 minutes there has been no new developments... [[PS laughter.]] ...to allow me to add something new to what I had previously answered to Mrs Catarina Martins. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u150	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u151	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if I recall, who succeeded Manuel Pinho was Vieira da Silva. Furthermore, at the moment, with the information that exists, and that was unknown at least generally, it would be natural for you, as Prime Minister, to ask for a trade union, an internal audit for all acts and all contracts performed at the time of Minister Manuel Pinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u153	Mr Prime Minister, as far as air resources are concerned, what I can tell you is that, in fact, it is inexplicable as Mr Prime Minister, a little more than a month ago, said that there would be 55 air resources that would be available in full time. It is that, after all, we will see the Operational Directive, which commands that there are 20, but in fact, there are not 20 and only 3 are completely legal. The others are there and, in an emergency, they can be activated because they exceed the Court of Auditors'visa, but we do not know what is going on in relation to all other means. What we realize is that, once again, there is a great mess: no deadlines are met, no work is organized in a timely manner, the Operational Commander leaves and it is the fifth that is now in office in his government. I recall that in the past this went very badly and, therefore, my question is whether the Prime Minister can maintain that, in fact, his Government is not failing in this area. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u154	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the honourable Member has read as I have read in the newspapers and, therefore, will know what I know, i.e. that a criminal investigation is open.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u156	You'll know more!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u157	As you know, in addition to being a doctor in law, in a union, the Government is asking the Attorney-General of the Republic or, in this case, the Attorney-General of the Republic to appoint a judge of the Public Prosecutor's Office to determine the facts. Now, if the Public Prosecutor's Office, not in the administrative sphere, is that of trade unionism, but in the criminal field, where research instruments are much more intrusive and allow further knowledge, already has an open investigation, which makes sense now to ask the Public Prosecutor's Office for a trade union, for the Public Prosecutor's Office to do, at administrative level, what are you already doing at criminal level? Oh, my God! Or don't you trust the Public Prosecutor's Office? Oh, my God! Look, I trust the Public Prosecutor's Office! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as air resources are concerned, Mrs Deputies, it is good not to make a statement. We have ended with the concept of "fire season" but, despite everything, the year is not all the same. In December there tends to be colder than in August, in August it tends to rain less than in January and, therefore, the device, having permanent elements, obviously does not have the same elements in 365 days of the year. It must be agreed that it would be a very bad management of public money for 365 days to have the same device of air fire fighting, and that objectively, even with all the risks of climate change, it is normal to predict that there are times of the year when the risk is frankly greater than in other times of the year. Therefore, the National Operational Directive, which is published and which you certainly know, also defines the timetable for the progressive commitment of the means and the progressive performance of the means, throughout the annual cycle, as it is normal for it to happen, and it will happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u158	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u159	Mr President, Prime Minister, although he trusts the Public Prosecutor's Office, this is not very consistent with his government's position: months before the term of office of the Attorney General of the Republic is completed they say they will perhaps replace it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] It is not exactly a sign of great confidence in the Public Prosecutor's Office or stability for the exercise of the mandate. Moreover, when I put these questions, I put them from the point of view of politics and ethics,... [[PS protests.]] ...which is another responsibility, alongside the judicial responsibility. I believe that a Prime Minister, at least this is how I interpret the functions,... [[PS laughter.]] ... must be able to do more than what is in the Criminal Code to prevent improper behavior, even if perhaps not criminally sanctioned by government members. On the issue of fires, we already realize that, in fact, advertisements are one thing, reality is another. The CDS, in advance, brought this matter to Parliament and we will continue to follow it very closely, in the hope that the tragedies of last year will not be repeated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u161	... but with a huge concern. Another matter that continues to concern us, Prime Minister, and not just us, is that of health. I don't have much time to put questions to you in detail anymore, but I ask you a very simple question: will you continue to allow this garrot from the Ministry of Finance to the area of health or will you change your orientation?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u162	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u163	Two final questions, one concerning Lisbon airport : Mr. Prime Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u164	It has to be very fast, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u165	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, a year ago in this House, he replied that we had to wait until the end of the year to have the result of the environmental study. Now, it's past the end of the year, we're almost half another year, and apparently the environmental study will be there. But there was a question that the NAP asked here, in one of the last 15-year debates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u166	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u167	Mr. President, I will finish. As I was saying, the NAP asked a question here, one of the last 15-year debates, which was whether or not there would be strategic environmental assessment, and this is not irrelevant. Mr. Prime Minister, will there be or won't there be? Do you know or do you still not know how to answer this question? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u168	With the same fairness on the part of the Bureau, you have the floor to answer, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u169	Mr President, the answer is very short. Mrs. Mrs. Assunción Cristas, as I have already had the opportunity to reply to Mr. André Silva,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u170	He can't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u171	... if it is legally necessary, it will be done, if it is not legally necessary, it will not be done. I am very pleased that I have confidence in the Public Prosecutor's Office and, therefore, let me, wait, be calm and patient, that some investigation of the Public Prosecutor's Office will come to an end and that the truth of the facts will be learned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u172	To put your questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u173	Mr President, Prime Minister, allow me to stress the situation in the National Health Service. In the face of a campaign against the SNS, which does not stop growing, the government continues not to want to solve the problems that persist over time, as is the case with the problems of professionals working in the public health service. To tell these workers that they are right but that everything cannot be solved at a time is not enough. Yes, we recognize that there are advances, but there have been a decade that these workers expect to value their wages and their rights. They wait for the workers and wait for the users, who are faced, every day, with new difficulties. It is for these professionals — doctors, nurses, senior health technicians and operational technical assistants — that it is due to the fact that the National Health Service still gives the quality response it gives today, despite all the troubles it has been subjected to.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u174	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u175	Mr. Prime Minister, health professionals and users deserve a more advanced response.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u177	Mr. Prime Minister, throughout the country, thousands and thousands of Portuguese workers celebrated 1. the May one, leaving the street, to the appeal of the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers), in a great and expressive manifestation of its demanding force, in defense of its rights, by the value of its wages, by reducing the working time. It was a great journey of demands for solutions of important and meaningful problems that are transversal to the world of work and that require the response of the Government and also of the Assembly of the Republic. From 2019 onwards, the requirement for a general increase in wages and also the national minimum wage for 650 €, from 2019 onwards, requires that the CFP accompany. It is a more than just requirement, given the unbalanced evolution of the distribution of national income and the economic model based on low wages, which needs to be exceeded. As the real wages rose a few tenths in each of the last few years, the wealth of the 25 richest in Portugal grew, in 2016 and 2017, 26, 9 %. Only the companies in the PSI 20 had an average profit rise of 12 % in 2017 compared to 2016, a reality that is not disconnected, too, from the serious offensive triggered in recent years against labour laws. It is also time to have another consideration and answer to the just requirement of reducing working hours to 35 hours, at this time marked by new scientific and technological advances, these, which may not only be a means of accumulating profits but an opportunity and an opportunity to improve living and working conditions, particularly, to reduce the pessimisticness of work, extending the right to rest, to the presence of the family, leisure and culture. How are we going to respond to these problems, Prime Minister? Mr. Prime Minister has already admitted that there is no sustainable economy that is based on low wages. Therefore, it is not enough to point out and state that concrete measures are in fact necessary, in addition to other issues, including working hours. Tell us, Prime Minister, when we move from words to acts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u178	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u179	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we have to look into reality. And what's the reality? In 2016, in 2017 and 2018, the national minimum wage rose by 15 %. In the last two years alone, all wages above the national minimum wage rose by 4 %. In other words, over the past few years, acts have translated words. There was an improvement in the effective income of workers, both those who receive the national minimum wage and those who already have a wage above the national minimum wage. We have also accelerated the thawing of collective bargaining in order to create better conditions for dialogue and to support an improvement in the wage process. This happened in the private sector, but it also happens in the public sector. in the public sector, we eliminated cuts in salaries and in several of the complementary elements, rejected the 35 hours a week and holidays that had been cut. He will say: "There is progress...". And I will tell you that there has been a great deal of progress, because in recent years there has been no progress, but there has been a retreat. We didn't step up, we moved on! And we've been moving forward from words to acts. It is also in the National Health Service that today, with regard to the beginning of this legislation, more than 3600 doctors and about 3000 nurses than it had. The number of diagnostic technicians increased by 4 % over these years. And this has effectively resulted in an improvement in health benefits for Portuguese people. Today we have more than 300 000 hospital consultations, more 19,000 surgical interventions and more 200 000 emergency treatments than we had in 2015, which means that there have been advances that have been supported by an important investment. In 2016, in 2017 and 2018, there was an increase of 700 million euros, I repeat, 700 million euros annually in health. It was not by chance that health was the excluded sector of captivating and it was not by chance that the decree-law of budgetary execution, which will shortly enter into force, expedites the mechanism for implementing expenditure in the field of health and, in particular, hospital units. We are developing an important investment program in 113 primary health care units, in addition to investing EUR 500 million in several hospital units, not including the launch of new hospital units such as the central hospital of Alentejo, the hospital of Seixal, the eastern hospital of Lisbon, the study on the Funchal hospital and other interventions that we are currently running.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u180	On the way, no, on the paper!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u181	Therefore, because Rome and Pavia were not made in one day, it is not in two and a half years that the accumulated headquarters is stagnated over a decade. What is important is that we have conditions to continue on this path that, as you say, has been made of progress and that it cannot re-mark step and much less may have retreats. We must continue to move forward, and that is what we will continue to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u182	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u183	Mr President, Prime Minister, the conclusion should be obvious: if the measures being taken do not solve the problems, we must continue to try to solve them with other measures, with other financing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u184	That's it, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u185	... responding to the aspirations of those working in this sector. [[PCP applause.]] Finally, Mr Prime Minister, the problem of corruption continues to arise cyclically in the public space and always associated with the relations of the dispossessed promiscuity and submission of political power to economic power, to the links of executives and leaders in large companies and economic groups with government responsibilities in successive governments, to the options of privatization, with decisions made in untransparent processes, in a framework of strong suspicions of corruption and trafficking in influences. The case of energy revenues involving today former Minister Manuel Pinho is the most recent to add to a long role. PT, CTT, SIRESP, ANA-Aeroports of Portugal, bank, submarines are examples of privatisations, concessions, PPPs (public-private partnerships) that fall within the process of favouring large economic interests of nebulous contours with serious consequences for the country. This reality deserved the strong and continuous denunciation of the CFP over the years, but also the fight against concrete proposals not only to reverse and recover for the public sector the basic, strategic sectors of the national economy, returning to the country what is its, but also to counter the practices of submission, corruption and collusion with economic groups. The proposals advocated by the PCP were rejected with the convergence between PS, PSD and CDS, weakening the fight against corruption, not only in the energy sector, but in all sectors where the scandals of privatization were accompanied by suspicions that some have only now discovered, shaking their own responsibilities throughout the evolution process. There is no question about the need for an accurate and prompt investigation into cases such as that of Manuel Pinho, but more is needed. A more comprehensive assessment is needed to address the set of links between successive governments and major businesses and economic groups. It was to this end that we proposed that the Committee of Inquiry should be extended so that it could examine all situations. This has always been our fight. It fights that integrates other proposals submitted, some of which are under discussion, namely: combating unjustified enrichment; combating offshore; combating capital flight and economic and financial crime; strengthening international judicial cooperation; strengthening the means of supervision and inspection of the State; strengthening mechanisms that prevent members of the Government from transiting to the administrative councils of economic groups; tight control of interest registration and the situation of incompatibilities. Yes, Prime Minister, I believe that in the years that I am now, there are serious people in all parties, but the truth is that this promiscuity ends up putting the problem and being at the root of the problems in terms of corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u186	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u187	It is in this sense that we would like to know what is the government's willingness to move forward in combating corruption, economic and financial crime. What attitude will the Government take towards the proposals for this path? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u188	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u189	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the Government's willingness to strengthen the means of combating corruption is total. I must say that I have recently had the opportunity to review the whole of the legislation and to check, even with some pride, that the great instruments for defining the type of crime of corruption, extending the instruments of criminal investigation to corruption and combating money laundering and trafficking in influence resulted from the initiatives I then presented as the Minister of Justice, complemented by a draft law of the CFP, I believe that the authorship of Mrs Odete Santos on money laundering.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u190	In 2001!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u191	Therefore, if the Assembly of the Republic believes that there are new mechanisms to be introduced, I only have to applaud because it is necessary to continue to strengthen the instruments of combating corruption. Combating corruption is a systemic challenge that covers governments, local authorities, regional administrations, that is, it covers any public sector. It is a phenomenon that undermines citizens' confidence in democracy, distorts competition and is an effective threat to freedoms. Therefore, all existing instrument that is effective in preventing and combating corruption can and should be mobilized. I shall then leave you a copy of a speech I made in September 2001 in the presentation of this legislative package, where you can see that it is certainly not here that there will be any distinction in our view on what is necessary and on the priority that must be given to combating corruption. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u192	And the time to give the floor, to put questions, to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u193	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I leave a few brief words for a larger issue which has already been mentioned today several times and which concerns the subject of corruption. Indeed, Prime Minister, corruption undermines citizens' confidence and harms them. It harms us, as a society, this absolute promiscuity between companies and rulers that the citizens have witnessed both in the act of governance and in the act of post-government. It is a matter to which we must, in fact, give another consideration. I want to make it clear here that the Greens are absolutely available to contribute to this debate and to the strengthening of anti-corruption mechanisms. Mr. Prime Minister, after the tragedy that took place last summer, the country's obvious expectation is that the means and conditions will be strengthened so that none of that will happen again. In other words, the expectation is that everything must be done to prevent tragedies and to generate the conditions necessary to have fire fighting capacity. however, Mr Prime Minister, you can put an immensity of men and women on the ground, but if you do not give them the conditions to act, in particular the equipment, the means, finally, and all the necessary conditions of intervention, it is clear that this will not be worth anything. That is why the country must be concerned about this news that has come to the public, in order to ensure that there are certain forces and teams, such as the GIPS ( Protection and Relief Intervention Group ), which are not properly attached, notably with personal protective equipment and other means, such as cars, transport and combat, in order to be able to carry out the actions that we are all asking for. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, I wonder what is really going on with regard to air resources, personal protective equipment and transport and combat cars so that they are not in fact still on the ground — with regard to air resources, Mr Prime Minister has already said something. Is the Court of Auditors, for example, taking longer than is normal to delay? Did the government delay? Why, at the moment, do we not have the effective conditions on the ground? Mr President, I now raise my questions all along, as time is running fast. Another question I would like to raise concerns the following: the government is not able to pacify the health and education sectors. You are not, Mr. Prime Minister, and this is seen, in particular, by what has been the response of professionals in the field of health. The many strikes that have happened have also been mentioned and Mr. Prime Minister says: « No one questions the right to strike ». Of course not, but the government has to make a reading of the strikes and it seems to us that it is making the wrong reading. It is not just a matter of guaranteeing the right to strike, but of reading what is meant by strikes, which are a form of radical struggle. So, Prime Minister, what the Greens find is that the government is not able to pacify health and education professionals, for example. With regard to education, how is it possible for the government to start a negotiation with the unions that the Assembly of the Republic has ordered...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u194	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u195	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was asking about education, how is it possible for the Government to start negotiations with the unions, that the Assembly of the Republic ordered through the State Budget for 2018 and also Resolution No. 1 / 2018 of the authorship of The Greens, saying: "We will not count, for career progression, the nine years that have been lost, we will count only two and, if they are not willing to do so, there is no negotiation for anyone"! How is it that the Government, which is obliged by law to hear the unions, representatives of the teachers, regarding the opening of tenders, launches out a notice of opening extraordinary, external tenders, and does not even give them cavaco?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u196	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u197	It is clear that the trade unions feel a part of this. Even to finish, I mean, Prime Minister, that, on the strategic environmental assessment to Montijo airport, it should not be done only if it is legally required. The government also has political will.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u198	Mrs. Deputy, there are limits to tolerance. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u199	And, or you have the political will to study as much as possible so that you can understand as little detail as possible and know as much as possible the impacts of that project, or then the government may have much to lose. The more challenged is a project, the more studies and public consultations must be done. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u200	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u201	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I believe that the Minister of Internal Administration yesterday had the opportunity to inform the House of the Republic of long time on the situation with regard to the hiring of air resources, the acquisition of cars, and the acquisition of equipment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u202	You've been for 5 hours to say nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u203	I draw attention to the fact that what we are discussing is absolutely extraordinary: a force that was created in 2006 with 500 or 600 elements — at the time, with less than three hundred and few elements — and which, over these years, little grew and doubled its elements in very few months. This is an absolutely extraordinary effort, which only the Republican National Guard could conceive, with its capacity for mobilization and organization and with the extraordinary financial effort that we are making. I draw attention to the fact that when Spain decided in 2005 to raise a special force of a military nature to combat fires it took almost seven years to form it. The first phase of the GIPS was formed in six months and this second phase is being formed in less time. So what the honourable Member says is a delay I would say is perhaps the difficulties of an excessive ambition that has been put in relation to having everything ready next day 15 and what we are now discussing is whether it will be 15, 20, at the end of the month or in the middle of next June. So the effort that is being made is enormous. But I should like to say to you that even I am surprised that the Greens put the focus on combat elements, because I think that the major conclusion, the most important and that no one can ignore, in fact, the report of the Independent Technical Commission, is that the great investment that needs to be made is the amount, it is in prevention: in the structural reform of the forest, in the cleaning of forests. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Madam Member, let us be clear: if we do not do this work - and that is where we have been concentrating our efforts - the means will always be insufficient to meet the needs. We can even have twice the GIPS elements, we can have twice the voluntary firemen, we can have twice the air resources, but if the conditions on the ground are not altered the means will always be insufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u204	And we've warned you about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u205	Well, Mrs. Member, I didn't want to insult you, but that was it. I was in this unpleasant position to say what the Greens supposed to be saying to the government. So that is our priority. But we do not ignore that prevention is not everything and that it is necessary to have means and to strengthen them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u206	Oh, come on! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u207	Mrs Deputy, that is why we decided to strengthen the GIPS, which we created 10 years ago and that during these years has not been strengthened; that is why we have signed more 79 permanent intervention teams of volunteer firefighters ; that is why we are opening the competition for admission of more than 200 elements to strengthen forest guards, to strengthen nature guards, to strengthen the CNAF (National Body of Forest Agents), to strengthen all means of surveillance. That is why, already last week, surveillance mechanisms went into operation through the watchtowers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u208	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u209	I shall now conclude, Mr President. This enormous effort that is being made is precisely because we all have reason to be concerned. And after all this is finished, even when men are all trained, equipped, with gloves, with all equipment, even after all air resources are available, I will remain concerned. And we all have good reasons to remain concerned, because the climate threat is immense, the state of the forest is what it is, the level of cleaning is what it is and, therefore, we certainly have every reason to remain concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u210	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u211	For me, I assure you that I will continue to be concerned throughout the year about this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u212	Mr André Silva of the NAP now has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u213	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, last year in July, as you know, Parliament approved a package of legislative amendments known as forest reform. One of the amendments adopted, proposed by the NAP, aims to implement a system of warning to populations in the event of an emergency or disaster, via sms and through the media. That is, when I, Mr. Prime Minister or other citizen find ourselves in an area affected by fires or earthquakes, for example, we receive a notice of civil protection with instructions on how we should act to ensure our safety. This measure is essential to prevent tragedies such as those that occurred on national roads near Pedrogão Grande. So, Prime Minister, we would like to know when this alert system will come into operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u214	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u215	Mr President, honourable Member, on 1 June, this alert system will enter into force, in which operators will send a preventive alert message by e-mail.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u216	Mr André Silva has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u217	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, another proposal from the NAP, which was approved during the forest reform package, was the obligation to include a list of municipalities that do not have a municipal fire protection plan on the ICNF site. Now, according to the list published on the website of the ICNF, on May 4th, five days ago, it is observed that there are many municipalities that continue without having the Forest Defense Plan Against Fires – this is the case of Pedrogão Grande – and many others that have been completely out of date for several years, such as those of Castanheira de Pera, Condeixa, Arganil or Tondela. It is not understandable that councils that lived the tragedies of the last year do not yet have an updated plan or plan, and it is very clear that these municipalities do not want or are prepared to make the proper fire prevention and consequently the protection of communities. I would like to know, Prime Minister, whether the Government is monitoring these situations in the municipalities and whether it is or will take steps to address these shortcomings of these municipalities, which will cause problems that will be ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u218	You have the floor, Prime Minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u219	Mr President, Mr President, I have nothing to add to what you have said. If there is a municipality that violates the law, it must comply. That's it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u220	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the 15-year debate. I think we can say goodbye to the Prime Minister and other members of the government. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to agenda item two, which is part of the debate on Europe's Day. To begin the debate, I have the floor to Mrs Ana Paula Zacharias, Secretary of State for European Affairs. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u221	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2012 a poetry festival was held in Berlin, where it was decided to make a poem in jail. That is, the poet took the last sentence that the previous poet had made, having to make a poem about Europe. In 2012 each poet began writing harsh words of crisis, suffering, unemployment, skepticism, sadness. Today, that poem would certainly be different. Today, the day we celebrate Europe, the balance sheet we make is much more positive for Europe and Portugal. For Europe, 2017, which seemed to be the year of all dangers, was also the year of all hopes. The instability in the international situation has had the effect of contributing to increasing the urgency of the European unity. At the same time, the global crisis has been leaving behind the hardest effects of the crisis: economic growth has increased, unemployment has decreased, it has improved the feeling of prosperity and optimism. One year ago, the European Union marked the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. in a spirit of unity, the leaders committed themselves to defending the values of freedom, democracy, the rule of law, human dignity, equality and solidarity and at the same time linked themselves to a joint effort of action in fundamental strategic designs: growth and employment, responsible social dimension, citizens' security, migration policy reform, projection of a strong Europe, cohesion and able to shape globalisation. This is how in these two plans, the values and the results and concrete action, the European project plays its future. Portugal presented itself in 2017 to the European institutions and to the Member States was certainly also a very different country from the past. Without a doubt our profile in the European Union has seen a remarkable development: a country under a programme of economic and financial assistance, Portugal has made a success of achieving its internal economic policy objectives without jeopardizing compliance with European rules. The Presidency of the Eurogroup represents for Portugal the recognition of the validity of its options, but also the possibility of the country having a more active role in the debate on the deepening of economic and monetary union and the future of Europe. In fact, in a context where threats to the integrity of the European Union appear in the most varied ways, such as Brexit or the rise of populism, nationalism or Euroscepticism, Portugal's European credentials give us a place of prominence among our peers. Europe is a fundamental option of Portugal, transversal to our society. And it is worth stressing here the Eurobarometer data, which confirm that 81 % of Portuguese feel - if European - above 70 % of the European average. through our history, because of our profile associated with greater capacity for intervention, provided by economic and financial results, we have to continue to contribute to finding solutions and facilitating agreements in the complex dossiers that are above the negotiating table. After all, the European Union is the art of commitment. And the compromise is only possible if there is dialogue, exchange of views and arguments. We must engage in this dialogue, taking into account the fears and expectations of all, even those who seem unreasonable, exaggerated or irrelevant. We need to listen to each other and throughout the European Union, avoiding stereotypes and understanding the reasons why they differ from one another. It is in this context that the start of the Meetings with the Citizens took place on 20 April. Similar initiatives will be carried out in all Member States of the European Union, and their results will be presented to the European Council in December 2019. Coordinated by the Government, in partnership with the European Commission through its representation in Lisbon, this initiative provides for a dozen meetings with citizens in various formats in various regions of the country, covering the most important areas of the European Agenda. It is precisely in this framework that the Government and the Assembly of the Republic, through the Secretary of State for European Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs, to which I leave a special greeting, will soon organise an event with young people here, in this House, to discuss the future of Europe. And the Europe of the future will be the Europe of citizens, or it will not be. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Europe we want is Europe that protects, a Europe that does what it promises, a Europe that realises. This debate with citizens is precisely for this reason: because we are facing very deep challenges. The European Commission has just presented the proposal for a multiannual financial framework for the period 2021 - 2027, which will deal with us in the coming months. This framework provides an opportunity to translate political statements into acts on the future of Europe. Without sufficient funding, we cannot implement the ambition we want. For this reason, and despite the positive aspects of this financial framework with regard to science and technology and with regard to reform programmes, the Government considers that this is beyond what Europe needs. We also believe that cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, two structural policies of the European Union, cannot be the only adjustment variables to allow the financing of these important new policies. The deepening of EMU ( Economic and Monetary Union ) remains a priority to find defence mechanisms in the coming crises. The negotiation of Brexit, the digital file, the mobility file, the migration file, security and defence require all our commitment and the widest possible consensus from here to the European elections in May 2019. I hope that, with 28 hands, we can build a new European narrative, successful and positive, which meets the expectations of the citizens. of them is the future of Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u222	Let us now move on to the debate. Interventions will be made by the constant order of the grid allocated to this debate on the Day of Europe. Mrs. Rubina Berardo from the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u223	Madam President, Secretary of State for European Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Ladies and gentlemen: We are celebrating the Day of Europe today. If you asked yourself: "What is Europe? », surely this House would present not only seven different descriptions, one for each party represented, as well as perhaps 230 versions of Europe, which each one of us realises and ambitions. I would therefore like to refer to the question: who is Europe? in mythology, Europe was a young Phoenician, who loved Zeus at first sight, for its beauty and grace. Zeus turns into a bull to approach the young man. Europe, seduced by the bark of the bull, first drowned him, then sat on his back. Without delay, the bull immediately shot flying over the ocean and revealed its true divine identity to Europe. This one, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the myth of the kidnapping or seduction of Europe, which has led our continent to gain its name. And there are many ways today to interpret this myth. But there is one in which we will certainly agree: the importance for the future of Portugal of the next multiannual financial framework of the Union. Mrs. Members, the PSD monitors the need to respond pro-actively to the new challenges facing the Union. We are also not immune to the budgetary restriction that represents the exit of the United Kingdom. However, in the first outline of the Commission, money is taken from the States — and from the regions! — the poorer part of the Union to reallocate these funds to the new areas which benefit the richest Member States the most. The PSD has already stated this: we are next to the interests of Portugal and we do not accept cuts in cohesion policy and in the common agricultural policy. The Commissioner for Budget responded to criticisms of the Commission's budget proposal, saying : « Criticism means that I am right». No, Commissioner Oettinger, you're not right! It is the denial of the basic principle of the Union: solidarity between peoples and between States.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u225	Today, we have heard Mr. Prime Minister of Portugal 'putting tears of crocodiles' on these cuts. But it is worth remembering — and the PSD will help the socialist government to remember what it has done. in the previous government, Portugal was a pioneer in the dynamization of the group Amigos da Cohesion, which brings together the 15 main beneficiaries of this policy. the current government has forgotten and ignored the Friends of Cohesion. And now, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we see the consequence: the European Commission is sacrificing — first of all! — the cohesion policy. Mr Prime Minister is no longer in the plenary, but perhaps the Secretary of State will have the opportunity to explain to the country why the Socialist Government has forgotten this collaboration of the Friends of Cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u226	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u227	But for the PSD, Europe is much more than the sum of all Community funds! It is an identity, political and cultural factor. Rather than those who in this Parliament support the government and reject integration, reject the euro and reject NATO, but who curiously never reject Community funds and Union support. Portugal and the Portuguese deserve—and we demand! — a government which is ambitious in European policy, which does not express shyness or shame, when addressing European integration in this Parliament. Let us see the Government's baffling delay in accession to permanent structured cooperation (CEP) in the field of security and defence, for example. Mrs. Members in the midst of all populist drifts in Europe exist, resist and persist Europeanists who can demonstrate that citizens are not inevitably condemned to choose these drifts. And we have several examples: the result of the Austrian presidential elections in 2016; Angela Merkel's response to the migration crisis; Emmanuel Macron's victory, precisely with a pro-European speech and proposals. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that Europe has faced, since its first days, tensions that have tested our resilience and our ability to transform, such as Europe, the young fenesia of our founder myth. Sometimes, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sounding truths also come from outside. John Kerry said a few days ago: « Europe needs to believe in itself ». This is how we embrace Europe: with seduction and against attempts to kidnap our Europe. Long live Portugal! He's alive in Europe! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u228	For an intervention, Mr Margarida Marques now has the floor by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u229	Madam President, Secretary of State for European Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Members: Today the Day of Europe is celebrated. Commemorating the Day of Europe is remembering the past. What the European Union has done, since its foundation, for peace, democracy, for the well-being of Europeans, for rights and for social protection, for science or for innovation. Commemorating Europe Day is to remember the founding fathers: Adenauer, Henri Spaak, Spinelli, De Gasperi, Jean Monnet, Robert Schuman. It's to remember Delors. But celebrating Europe's Day is looking at the challenges that have to do with the future of Europe. And you will not be surprised if I look at the future multiannual financial quadrupling — after all, the European Commission has presented to us, exactly a week ago, its proposal, because the multiannual financial framework has to do with the European Union that we want, not only the financial envelope to which each country, our country, has a right or will benefit. It is good that the European Commission assumes the need to promote innovation and puts itself in a competitive position in the field of technology, in the defence of the planet and climate, in the promotion of investment. It is good that the European Commission gives central importance to the protection of Europeans and those residing in the European Union. Protection in all its dimensions is in the first ambition of Europeans for the European Union. It is good that the European Commission is intransigent in the defence of European values, starting with the rule of law, threatened in some countries that are part of the European Union. It is good that the European Commission proposes a budget outline for the euro area. Without a doubt, but it is a first step, and a principle so rejected by many countries in recent years. But the European Commission's proposal is not ambitious, no doubt. The European Parliament had opened up a more ambitious budget proposal. this time we have an additional disturbance factor: the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union. But in the 2007 - 2013 negotiation we had enlargement: more beneficiary countries and, above all, goal 1, as Portugal. The European Commission seeks to show that the budget has increased. But it didn't increase, or it didn't increase very much. The proposed financial framework, for example, began to integrate the EDF ( European Development Fund ), which was not part of the previous financial frameworks. But it is not just the little effort required from the countries that concern us, because at last they are all beneficiaries. We are concerned that the European Commission has not proposed to bring an end to the rebats — and there are several — that have emerged following Mrs Tatcher's statement « I want my money back » ( I want my money back), also contradicting the European Parliament's recommendation here. We are concerned about the lack of ambition of the European Commission with regard to the mobilization of own resources, also far from the recommendations of the European Parliament. We are concerned that the European Commission has not valued social and solidarity, which are part of the cohesion of the territories. We are concerned that the European Commission has decided, in its proposal, to reduce cohesion money instead of putting itself in a demanding position to propose a new generation of cohesion policies. Yes, because today the scope of cohesion policies has new challenges. Cohesion regions must become or assert themselves as competitive regions, which incorporate technology and innovation, which attract people, skills, investment, companies. They are no longer « the poor regions » of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are concerned that you have decided to reduce the CAP (the common agricultural policy ). This proposal poses major challenges for Portugal in the negotiation process. The enhancement of centralised management policies, to the detriment of shared management policies, requires Portugal to have a demanding and intransigent attitude in negotiating its regulations. And this is not a bureaucratic issue, it is a matter with a huge political scope. Anyone dealing with structural funds knows well what I'm talking about. The geographical balance in access to these centralised management policies and programmes and their resources must ensure that all countries to which they have access on an equal footing. Under no circumstances can we allow, for example, the major universities, research centres or satellite operators in central Europe to be in a privileged position. Portugal has potential for growth in all these areas and the Portuguese institutions must be in exactly the same condition as Dutch, French or German operators. Does it require Portuguese operators? No doubt, but the rules will have to promote geographical balance. In short, Portugal faces three major challenges in this negotiation: reaching a multi-year financial framework ( FIF ) for the European Union that will enable it to respond to the ambitions of the European Union and European citizens; reaching a fair national financial envelope within the European framework; and reaching the regulatory framework for the management of funds and financial instruments that ensure balanced access from Portugal to all centralised management policies and programmes. Only in this way will equal and equal participation of all Member States in the process of European construction be ensured. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u230	This plenary is full of excitement and enthusiasm! There has never been a parliamentary debate like this! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u231	I now give the floor to Mrs Isabel Pires, whom I call on to make a better fulfillment of the time than the previous Member of Parliament, although there is due tolerance. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u232	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members: Today the European Union is quite different from the promises that have been made to the European peoples 68 years ago, far from those oaths of eternal solidarity. The brutal troika programme in Portugal, specifically, has shown our people how cruel this European Union project can be. however, every year on this day these promises are celebrated, ignoring the harsh reality. The problem of moments like this, Madam Secretary of State, is that it easily falls into the trap of utopian speeches on solidarity and freedom, on the union between peoples, which are not just propaganda. It's just a trap for those who stop looking at the reality of every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u234	Let us look at the European budget which is being discussed and will make it clear that the supposed solidarity has given rise to cuts in cohesion. Let us look at the economic objectives and realize that the supposed European Union of economic prosperity has given rise to the European Union of austerity. We look at the rights of the peoples and we will see how the Union wants them subject to payment of unpaid debts and the obsession of deficits, leaving behind public investment and defence of public services. Where are the peace proposals when the European Union, always subject to the belligerent NATO, loses in a complex puzzle of diplomatic relations and strengthens its budget for war and militarization, realized in the Permanent Structured Cooperation? Where is the European Union of rights, worthy of realpolitik, when European rulers themselves attack their people with attacks on freedom of the press or fundamental rights? The so-called European Union of Freedom has given rise to such unacceptable things as agreements with dictatorial regimes such as Turkey, or to a deafening silence on what is happening in Catalonia, Hungary or Poland.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u236	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for this debate there is enough ingenuity about a project that is increasingly oppressive! We should not allow this date to pass without serious reflection on what European project exists and what consequences it has for the populations it says it represents. So let's go to a few questions that we would like the government to answer. Will Portugal accept that the next European budget is an attack on cohesion policy and on the common agricultural policy, diverting money from this money directly into military programmes? Will Portugal accept that the European project is Europe-fortress, closed on itself, militarized, giving priority to arms and this industry and not to human rights? Will Portugal accept that European humanitarian policy continues to translate into payments to Turkey's dictatorial regime to serve as a wall in the refugee crisis? This is the shock of reality that the new multiannual financial framework presents: rejecting convergence, deepening divergence and completely undermining solidarity. Today we must not celebrate in vain nor continue the proclamation of empty intentions or come to speak in mythological fables and stories, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. What we should have is the responsibility to realize what is wrong and to have the courage to change — but radically change! — in the name of a project of union between peoples, indeed, and not in the name of a project that crushes peoples by a whim of few who want to rule on behalf of the interests of some. We know that in this debate, PS, PSD and CDS are together in a European project that forgets people, implements austerity and militates our territory, and for that they will not count on the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u237	Thank you very much, Mrs Deputies, has redeemed Mrs Margarida Marques in terms of time, of course. Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u238	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Only in terms of time! [[Laughing.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are today celebrating Europe's Day with all that it represents, and yet there are not few who ask whether we will indeed have reasons to point it out. That is why, 68 years later, we must not forget or neglect the main reason for European integration, peaceful coexistence between States, the construction of a social, political and economic project, and this perspective is indispensable to counteract analyses that are merely conjunctural or timely. We've achieved a lot in these 68 years. Europe is an area of peace, security, justice and social inclusion, an area of well-being that is unique in the world. Despite some more recent contradictions, Europe continues to be the continent of freedom and freedoms, of free initiative, of free movement, of respect for the unique and inalienable rights that are constant to our human nature. For more than 70 years, Europe remains the guarantor of peace, the guarantor of food self-sufficiency of nearly 500 million people, and also the guarantor of political and social freedoms for many peoples who have been denied them by the two worst forms of totalitarianism that the world has known. on European Day, it is worth recalling the founding principles and progress we have made over six decades, at a time when many of our citizens look to Europe more as a burden than an opportunity. It is enough to be lucid or careful to realize that today's Europe is a Europe that is not institutionally prepared to respond to the numerous crises that happen year after year, and that it is not prepared to respond to the cracks that are opening in the project of European integration, from the crisis of sovereign debts to the crisis of refugees, from terrorism to Brexit, through the increase of nationalist, populist, xenophobic and anti-European movements that rise to the right and left and that are not merely trivial issues. in this sense, we must praise and realize that, in the last year, we have already demonstrated it, as Europeans, we have the ability to overcome difficulties and I believe that the proven proof of this was the institutionalization of permanent structured cooperation within just over two years. Having said that, we must also realize that Europe continues to be suffocated by immobilism in the adoption of decisions which the Union itself has taken but which, after that, cannot comply rapidly and closely with the citizens. A clear example of this is the conclusion of Economic and Monetary Union ( EMU ), whose incompleteness continues to affect countries such as Portugal, which more than ever needs the return of confidence in the banking system in order to strengthen the financing of our economy. The CDS does not hesitate to assume its Europeanism, but ours is a Europeanism with a standard of demand, based on values such as solidarity. It is necessary for us to be able to progress in European integration without ever forgetting the value of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. Wherever we walk, we will always have, with great transparency, to ensure the legitimacy of decisions, but also to ensure respect for the sovereignty of States and peoples. It is necessary to move forward in this way and to ensure balance between decisions, but it is also necessary to ensure that for example the structures of economic governance of the Union, which are still to be concluded, can be made as soon as possible. And the truth is that since 2014 we have come year after year, the European Council after the European Council, report after report, deferring what is unacceptable and as important for Portugal as the conclusion of EMU. In addition to the requirement, we also talk about solidarity. We have, with the approval of the next Community framework, the multiannual financial framework, a huge test of the solidarity of the Member States. Either Europe is an area of cohesion and solidarity or it is no longer Europe. The reduction of cohesion or agriculture funds leads to an increase in inequality between countries and regions, and this is a rumb in the value of solidarity which we, in this bench, cannot accept. It is also a supposed loss of funds that has to do with an amendment of the criteria, in addition to the criterion of GDP (gross domestic product) per capita, that would be absolutely unacceptable for us. It was very important for the Government here too to say what efforts it is making in the national and international context to ensure that cohesion funds and agricultural funds are not reduced to Portugal, because that would be the worst way of marking this Day of Europe. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u239	We shall continue with the debate and now have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u240	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on the day of the signing of the victory over the Nazi-fascist forces in the Second Great War, which has become significantly on European Day, we welcome the struggle of the peoples to defend their rights, the right to development, progress and peace, and the right of each people to decide the course for their country. We want to welcome this day the struggle of the peoples of the European continent who have contributed to civilizational advances and who have been protagonists of emancipatory revolutions, whose legacy still today assumes a huge deal. [[PCP applause.]] The moment we live is a deep and steep crisis in the European Union and the European Union. This crisis is indissociable from the capitalist nature of the integration process and which, at the same time, makes its class nature evident. A crisis resulting from political options that have led to the widespread exploitation and impoverishment of the peoples of the Member States belonging to the European Union. They promised rights, cohesion, solidarity, prosperity, progress and peace, but what the European Union brought was unemployment, precariousness, poverty, inequality, exclusion, war. For Portugal, integration into the European Union, economic and monetary union, into the single market, resulted in the destruction of the productive apparatus, the destruction of jobs, the attack on labour rights and social rights, the withdrawal of sovereignty, greater dependence and economic and social backwardness. Given the absence and failure of the European Union to respond to the problems that people are facing, they now present to us as a solution for the future the insistence on the same political option responsible for the situation to which we have reached, in a kind of'step forward' in order to deepen the pillars that guide the European Union, federalism, neoliberalism and militarism, attempting to circumvent the problem. There are prospects for the European Union to withdraw larger shares of sovereignty to the Member States by deepening the concentration of economic and political power, the creation of the European Monetary Fund, a European budget and even a European Minister for Economic and Finance, made up of the European pillar of social rights, to legitimise the continuation of the policy of exploitation and impoverishment in the form of these structural reforms. At the same time, further militarism and interventionist policy, interference and aggression of the European Union, with increased cooperation with NATO, the creation of permanent structured cooperation and the objective of strengthening the defence and security budget. The preparation of the next multiannual financial framework meets this perspective, strengthening defence spending, aiming at an arms race at the expense of cohesion and the common agricultural policy, an option that deserves our vehement rejection. These are the political options of the European Union, for example, in the way it has been dealing with the issue of migration based on repression and expulsion rather than guaranteeing fundamental rights, which, together with the intensification of exploitation and the growth of poverty, create the broth conducive to the growth of extreme right forces, a worrying situation that is inseparable from the guidelines underlying the capitalist integration process. It is also a matter of concern to those who dare to defend the rights of workers and peoples, whether communist parties or trade union organizations, such as the criminalization of the struggle for better living conditions. This reality does not seem to disturb the European Union, which would propagate, but does not practice, the values of democracy and freedom and is well associated with the pursuit of rights, freedoms and guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u241	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u243	There is no shortage of those who intend to talk about Europe and the European Union as if we were referring to the same thing, or who are talking about the need to save Europe, when the aim is to save the process of capitalist integration of the European Union to continue to benefit the great capital and monopoly groups at the expense of exploitation of workers. Today we affirm that the best way to build a Europe of workers and peoples, a Europe that upholds and respects the rights of work and social rights, a Europe that is truly cooperative and solidarity, a Europe based on mutually advantageous economic relations, a Europe of progress and peace, does not go through the subjugation of national interests to the conditionalisms and taxes of the European Union, but rather by the ruin with the European Union and with everything that represents, by the affirmation of sovereignty, by the right to economic and social development, by respecting the rights of workers and by guaranteeing social rights, by the redistribution of wealth, by cooperation, by solidarity and by peace. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u244	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u245	Madam President, the Secretary of State for European Affairs and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: Mr Prime Minister, recently in the previous debate, said that, if we want a strong Europe, we must have a tailor-made budget. I think this is a lot to dream about, because a strong Europe would never go through a European Union that has as its priority not to pursue those who are the interests of the peoples but, indeed, the interests of the European elites. When the European Union divorced from the people, of course, it became self-inflicted, because without that fundamental support, vital to food, it is impossible to continue. It is for the people that the rulers must direct all their actions. But a Europe which, rather than promoting cohesion and solidarity among its Member States, has created a greater gap, including between the economic and social dynamics of these Member States, is a Europe that has failed, as it is evident. At the food level, for example, when we joined the EEC (the European Economic Community), we depended on the outside of about 25 % of what we used to consume; today we are brutally more dependent and, perhaps, the numbers are even practically reversed: we depend almost 70 % of what we consumed at the food level. So this also has much to do with the direct consequence, for example, of what was the common agricultural policy, which served interests like those of France but forgot about interests like those of Portugal. And here, what did you do? You've shut down our productive activity! We have received Community funds not to produce, to have our lands inactive.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u246	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u247	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u248	This is a European Union that fails repeatedly! And now what does the European Union propose, through a new budget? The cohesion policy is weakened and the common agricultural policy is weakened! This is to realize that, in fact, there is no solution here. A Europe that emerged from a logic of solidarity between countries has nothing to do with this. This is the Europe of elites, it is not the Europe of peoples, and therefore, of course, it has its marked failure, which is exactly what has happened. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u249	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the debate period. We shall enter the closing period, for which the Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor, at the disposal of seven minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u250	Madam President, thank you very much. Members and Members of Parliament. This is Europe. What happened here, now, was the debate on Europe, and this debate on Europe has room for poetry and mythology, including, because this is part of the European identity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u251	But there is also room for realism!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u252	And you have room for realism, yes, Mrs. Deputy. You're absolutely right! It has room to look at Europe which we want to build and for Europe which Portugal will defend, and which will defend with great pride, without shame and without delay, in all instances where it must intervene. And I am afraid - and I am afraid - that it has been done by the presence of the Prime Minister, from the first hour in the European Parliament, in the European Parliament, explaining what we want and what Europe we want, and I am afraid - that it has been done by all the countries of the European Union with which we have held bilateral relations and meetings at all levels to find the right path, the path of Europe we want, the way to Europe that Portugal thinks must be Europe. So don't think we're not going to work or we're not working. The Group of Friends of Cohesion is a group that will probably be set up from the moment our cohesion policy regulation comes out on May 29 because cohesion policy is this time — and this is another element of the complexity of this negotiation — an element that will have very variable alliances at geographical levels. What appears will be beneficial to some countries, less beneficial to others, even in terms of cohesion policy, and we will have to find these alliances in variable geometry, which we will do. As for the other aspects of the budget, I would like to thank Mrs Margarida Marques for stressing the positive aspects that this budget brings to us, which we cannot forget. These aspects are fundamental because they deal with the growth of science, innovation, employment protection, social protection and, above all, bring this outline of the budget line, which comes with a programme to support reforms and with a fund for investment and structuring, at a time when there are new systemic crises in Europe. The social aspect, European social policy, is central, and we must give it due attention. This budget thus brings extremely positive aspects, but it also brings concerns, of course, which have been listed here. One of these concerns is the common agricultural policy, and it is interesting that those who think that the common agricultural policy ends up being a negative thing for the country after all want the common agricultural policy. We must defend in accordance with our interests, in the way it can be useful for our country, and so on, because it is mainly about working on the issue of rural development. It is the pillar of rural development which is particularly important for Portugal. As far as cohesion policies are concerned, they must be modernised and new policies must also be opened up. From the outset we said that migration issues, for example, of integration of migrants, should be an important aspect within cohesion policy. We are prepared to accept this, but there can be no less money for cohesion policy. Cohesion policy can be more comprehensive, but it cannot have less funding, and that is why we will surely be beaten. As for Economic and Monetary Union, we will continue to defend the improvement of its resilience to economic shocks through the completion of the Banking Union, the creation of the Union of Capital Markets and this budgetary capacity which increases stability and promotes investment in the euro area. in this sense, we see these proposals submitted by the Commission on support for structural reforms and the investment stabilisation fund. We will also work in another area that has been mentioned here: this idea that we have to be with the citizens. Indeed, the European Union cannot be a European Union of elites, it must reach the citizen, it must be with the citizen, it must hear the citizen. This is a fundamental aspect, because this is where these populisms are born, the attacks on the rule of law, and the rule of law is and must continue to be a fundamental pillar of the European Union. That is undeniable, and that is why we will also work in this area. The European elections of May 2019 are at the door and we have a very demanding schedule ahead this year. We will work hard to defend national interests in order to achieve a result that is good for Portugal but that is also good for Europe, because that is what it is, that is also a good result for Europe, because Europe has to be that Europe that protects, this Europe that realises, that Europe that gives citizens the answer to their expectations. So this May 9 is a day of celebration, but it must also be a day of mobilization. Until the end of the institutional cycle of the European Union, we have much to do to demonstrate to the citizens the added value of our Union, the added value for Portugal, the value of that entity which, as has been said, brought us 68 years of peace, and sometimes we forget how important that is, we forget how fragile peace is. Mrs Paula Santos spoke of the moment of victory, and this moment of victory has to have a very great reflection on all of us, especially the younger ones, who do not know that this peace is so fragile. We will redouble our work in the legislative dossiers that are still under way, negotiate the multi-annual economic and financial framework and regain citizens' confidence. The year 2019 will be a year of change for Europe: for the first time, we will no longer have the United Kingdom with us, a Member State leaving the project. We all regret this decision, we all respect it, but we hope that the United Kingdom will continue to be a strategic partner and close to the European Union on its path, which will have to be composed of this virtuous triangle of citizens, Member States and European institutions. 68 years ago, the Schuman Declaration aimed at building a future that would end up with fratricidal tragedies in Europe. The European Union is therefore invaluable and irreplaceable. To contribute to its preservation, to its improvement, in a pragmatic but not free from idealisms, not from values, is the invitation that we are all obliged to accept. We count on you, we have debates like this, we have your help so that we can present a result to this challenge on the next Day of Europe, May 9, 2019, in Sibiu, Romania. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-09.u253	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the debate on the Day of Europe, we have come to the end of our work at today's plenary meeting. I congratulate the Secretary of State for European Affairs and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs. It is only left to inform the House of our agenda for tomorrow's session, which will begin at 3 p.m. and which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1476 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend the system of reserve funds for the buildings in force, ensuring their effective existence and use due, through a supervision to be carried out by the municipalities, promoting the existence of the financing necessary for the conservation of buildings ( CDS-PP ), 1477 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures for the protection and promotion of the lease, in particular the measures necessary for the establishment of the legal system of income insurance ( CDS-PP ) of draft law No 821 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates an incentive to rent housing, reducing the autonomous rate of taxation, within IRS, of income from real estate, resulting from lease contracts for housing, by amending the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November ( CDS-PP ), in general of draft resolutions Nos 1582/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Transparency in the processes of alienation to the national fund for the rehabilitation of the State building ( CDS-PP ), 1583/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, in conjunction with the City Hall of Lisbon, undertake the conversion and rehabilitation of buildings belonging to Colina de Santana in Lisbon, so that they may be used for housing, in a programme to be created, or already existing, with a view to renting for moderate housing purposes, mainly for young people and middle class families ( CDS-PP ), 1584 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the lifting of the real estate of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia in Lisbon, with a view to establishing a programme for the rehabilitation or construction of rental properties for moderate housing purposes ( CDS-PP ), 1586 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create an income insurance ( PSD ), 1588 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a lease allowance in situations of sudden fragility ( PSD ) and 1591 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Programme of cooperation between the State and local authorities for the use of public real estate with a view to lease ( PSD ). at the end of the debate, there will be a possible vote on the initiatives discussed. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 50 minutes.]]
