ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Having no record to announce today, we move to the first point of our agenda, which consists of a current debate required by the CDS-PP, under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on problems in the area of culture. To open the debate, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u2	Mr President, I am particularly pleased to see you here, presiding over the session. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The government promised « to turn the page of austerity policies», but we realize that after the expectation created to everyone, the culture did not turn the page. In culture, you have to wait, despair or shout to see if the government wakes up and opens its eyes to your responsibility. There are no more excuses, the Minister for Culture can no longer blame the past. Two years, four months and eleven days since the takeover of this government, it is worth reviewing the respective programme, supported here by the left, and seeing what has been done. In its Programme, the Government affirms itself as a partner and dynamiser of this collective effort and as a credible interlocutor of producers and breeders. However, we opened the previous public newspaper and read « Miguel Honrado has no conditions to continue in office ». This news created such crispaction in the sector that made dialogue with cultural structures impracticable. A stager even says that there has never been such a big attack on theatre in Portugal. In the same Government Programme, the Socialist Party affirmed the restoration of the Ministry of Culture as the first promoter of a coherent and sustained cultural policy, and that is its objective. What is called a true culture policy will be the Minister of Culture be called to Saint Benedict to explain to the Prime Minister as if he were a foreign ambassador or the Ministry of Culture wait three years for an authorization from the Finance colleague to prevent Mafra's sign towers from falling? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] In the Government Programme, it was intended that museums and monuments of particular importance could benefit from greater autonomy of management. And how many times have we seen here the Minister, following the words and commitment of the Prime Minister, to ensure that certain museums would have administrative and financial autonomy, but so far, and passed so many promises, nothing has been done because, as always, finances are blamed. The Ministry of Culture would be, in accordance with the Government Programme, a privileged interlocutor with the other protections, but did not pay support for regional social communication which protects because it does not convince the infrastructure colleague who is responsible for the payment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u3	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u4	They promise an active and consistent guardianship, but we have a Minister of Culture who says one day, in Parliament, that he wants a new institute for heritage, because the structure of the present, of the time of the troika, is disformed, to, two days later, he says he is not for now, no troika, but perhaps for the next legislature. The guardianship was thus for the next and consistency has already disappeared. It was also guaranteed in the Government Programme to value national theatres as national theatres, ensuring means to ensure the possibility of continuing multi-year projects with the necessary confidence, but half-legislation then the programme contracts with national theatres and the National Dance Company are still being completed and the necessary confidence is still awaiting. Moreover, they suffered a reduction of EUR 2 million and EUR 400 thousand in the last State budget. The CDS made a proposal to restore this value, which was rejected by the united left.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u5	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u6	It said the same Government Programme would redefine the rules and procedures for granting support. We had a Secretary of State of Culture who changed the model of support for the arts, because it was obsolete, and therefore made a new one, delaying the contest in more than a year and a half. When the results come, the Minister of Culture says it is open to rethink the model, that is, the new model became obsolete in one week! [[CDS-PP applause.]] In this programme, a medium- and long-term strategy was envisaged and this government made three amending budgets in one month in the budget of a single speech that arrived year and half after due course. And as for an effective interdepartmental articulation, as promised by the Government Programme, we have a minister who cannot explain the specific situation of the dancers of the National Dance Company to the Minister of Social Security or — wonderful articulation! — a Secretary of State who denies that the Prime Minister was surprised.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u8	On the heritage, they assumed a collective responsibility of preserving, preserving and disseminating, ensuring widespread access to their profits. But the Easter holidays arrived and the access was closed — a strike against them. And I quote the union: « The low staff ratio for what the museums need and to which the government, after two years of entry into office, gave no answers». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, 862 days have passed, more than half of the legislature, and this government continues to criticize the previous one, saying that the right has only now agreed to culture, as if this new model was not of its sole responsibility, as if it were only left-wing enough to support culture, as if they had not felt so many people who believed and had not seen improvements that now, without troika, it was your duty to produce.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u9	Madam Member, you are already exceeding the time allocated to the opening intervention. The surplus will then be discounted at the stage of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, I have always considered that the best stage on the left is to make the people believe that it is necessary to be of the left to be intellectual and that only the left is that they care about culture. But now the mask has finally fallen. [[CDS-PP applause.]] A government that promised a concerted strategy of internal dissemination of culture and that made a regulation to value artistic use as an instrument of correction of territorial asymmetries was the same government that left without support structures in several inner district capitals. Yesterday, we heard from the Prime Minister once again that the Minister of Finance did not solve this mess — that the government has retreated and will, after all, give support to all the structures. It's late. The solution comes when more than half of the legislation is passed and when all the deadlines for the competition are exceeded, in the midst of the instability that you, and only you, have caused. This is the state of art: we have a government that goes back and does not move forward. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u11	Thank you very much for the words you spoke to me, Mrs Teresa Caeiro. On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to Mr. Minister for Culture, Luís Filipe Castro Mendes, who I also welcome. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr President, first of all, I would like to say a friendly word of congratulations on your reinstatement. Mrs Teresa Caeiro, first of all, I wanted to tell you that we will turn to the page of austerity but we will not turn to the page of difficulties. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] We increased the 2015 crop budget for this year by 15, 7%! 15, 7% was the increase in the budget of the culture! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the increase in support of the arts, and as Mrs Assumption Cristos has taught us to do, I will show you a comic. [[Right now, the speaker displayed a chart.]] in this chart, you can see what was the support of the arts between 2009 and 2011 and then we see the evolution until we reach an increase of + 21, 4 %. On the question of the model of support for the arts, we know very well that we have made a model with the greatest rigor and with consultation of the sector. This model, in its practical application, and as a new model, triggered some situations of relative injustice. Why? For lack of funding. The strengthening of funding has therefore been designed to adjust the model and make it more fair, so that more structures can be covered, respecting the logic of the jury, because it is a competition, and the decisions of the jury are sovereign. For the time being, I would leave the other questions you raised after hearing the other speeches from the other parliamentary groups. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u13	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Proposal 24 - C, amending the State budget for 2018, by the authorship of the Portuguese Communist Party, states: « As a matter of urgency to reverse the policy of de-investment of professional arts support, the CFP considers that the overall amount for public support for the arts must reach a minimum level of EUR 25 million already in the 2018 budget. The overall amount of the support for the arts proposed by the CFP for 2018 corresponds to the updated value of the existing funds to support the artistic creation structures before the cuts imposed by the CFP (stability and growth pacts) and after the troika pact, and could continue. They had the PS, the PSD and the CDS approved this proposal and part of the problems we are discussing today would not have happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u16	And the reality has proved that the CFP was and is right when it defends the allocation of EUR 25 million for public support for the arts in 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u18	The problem is that when the PS decides to converge with the PSD and CDS, the problems stay deeper, often and you cannot find a solution as long as that is the way. We, PCP, propose a different line. But that's not just the problem. The new model of support for the arts clearly disregards fundamental issues for the development of a true public service of culture: decentralization, knowledge of the work of structures and creators, real simplification of procedures, respect for discourse and artistic work instead of obsession with financial criteria that none of this takes into account. The Ministry of Culture has requested tolerance for the model. But what tolerance was there for the companies and, above all, for the huge amount of criticisms that were made even before the new model of support for the arts had a letter of law?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u20	And we saw what happened, we saw the despoutery that we can read in various passages of the contest's tops, which show that everything is the opposite. If we are to see, the International Festival of Puerto puppets was considered not eligible in the first phase and is stated in the statement that no action was found to dynamize the internationalization of Portuguese arts and culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u21	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u22	At an international festival!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u23	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u24	It's awful, indeed! Upstairs—it's over! — this festival has a bilingual interpretation, it has an interpretation in LGP (Portuguese Gesture Language) and, even, it is a festival accessible to people with disabilities, but none of this has been taken into account! In the case of FITEI (Iberian International Theatre Festival ), for example, it is stated that there was no evidence of the need for full-time team recruitment. Well, then what's it like? Is there no need to combat precariousness and assert work with rights in culture? What's this? Oh, my God! In fact, it is necessary to review this matter of the jury, and it is necessary to review everything that you chaired for the jury decisions, because there are too many, too many wrong things here! No, Minister, there can be no tolerance for those who do not respect the rights of people and for those who do not respect the mission of cultural dynamisation, constitutionally attributed to the State and who must be executed by the hands of the Government. We therefore welcome the fight that will take place today in defence of culture at various points in the country, which is, in fact, fundamental. The question I put to you, Minister, is it simple: will the Government continue the convergence with the right or will decide to converge with the CFP, assigning 25 million for public support to the arts and, finally, because it is an objective requirement, take steps towards the goal of 1 % of the Culture Budget? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u25	To speak in the debate, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u26	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Dear Members, we are all aware that culture, already long ago, did not occupy such a central space on the parliamentary and media agenda and, unfortunately, for the worst reasons: with critical interventions by professionals, first of the cinema, after the arts, with the results known in the first phase, without the intervention of the Prime Minister, contests to extinguish the theatre— and deserve reference to the Teatro and The School of the Night, in Coimbra, the Teatro das Bieiras, in Covilhã, the Drama Centre of Évora, the Teatro de Amémoção de Setúbal, the Teatro Experimental de Cascais, the Teatro Experimental do Porto, the Seiva Trumpe and Pé de Vento companies, the Festival International de Marionetas and the International Festival de Teatro de Expressão Iberica, with the taking of positions of municipalities from north to south of the country and with protests marked as today in several cities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u28	Therefore, for two years now, the government has been creating a problem, with promises and expectations that it has not been able to match — or has not been competent to do so — ignoring the attention calls that the agents have been making. The truth is that the strong wave of challenge—as Mrs. Teresa Caeiro said, the words of Carlos Avilez "never as now a great attack was made on theatre in Portugal" are strong—has haunted, in the last day 27, the World Theatre Day. Nor did the fact that the Prime Minister felt the need to come successively to the public, first with the announcement of reinforcement, then caught by surprise with the controversy and, finally, with a letter of written commitment, served to reassure a sector that is disappointed and dusty. Everyone knows that DGArtes'budget ( Directorate-General for Arts) fell from 2015 to 2016. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u29	Everyone knows that the numbers to which Mr. Prime Minister calls facts compare what cannot be compared. Everyone knows that the pledge is not enough to restore the budget to the level at which it was before the cuts made in 2010. [[PSD applause.]] Everyone knows that the Minister has no power, because, despite the country's lack of intervention, the person who decides the budget for culture is the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]] The issues which the PSD would like to ask are not related to the budget but to the political assessment which Mr Minister makes in relation to some principles of the new model of support for the arts which he has approved and published. Does the Minister consider it a mistake, in terms of cultural policy, to compete together in the same programme and without differences of criteria, host structures and programming and creation structures? Does he or she not consider that the definition of independent structures is unclear, and that the city theatres, disguised, are able to take up that name unduly? Does the Minister believe that the total omission of the film network in the model is a mistake or not? On the basis of what criterion of the model, as yesterday seems to have insinuated Mr Prime Minister here, in some regions of the country there are more companies excluded by the jury than in others? Does the Minister believe that DGArtes has the right to play its central role in this sector or not? Does the Minister consider that the DGArtes budget today is or is not appropriate for the responsibilities he has assumed as Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u30	You have the floor to speak in order to speak in the debate, Mr Jorge Campos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to speak my first words to the cultural agents who, a little over the country, have risen against the recently verified competitive results. It is because of them and their struggle that we are currently in a situation that, despite everything, is different. Secondly, I address my words to the honourable Members. Members of the CDS, who convened this debate, recalling them: you were in a government that for four years had the equivalent of an average investment in these arts... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You will say what you understand, and I will say what you understand, if you don't mind. The median in the competitions that took place during your governments was 11 million and 500 thousand euros. That is what you have attributed, on average, for four years, to these areas. We start with 15 million and are now over 19 million. So there's a clear difference. They cannot, therefore, now stand up as big defenders and say that they are the champions of this cause. They're not, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. They're not! [[CDS-PP protests.]] That said, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the essential details of this invitation to tender, on which it is really necessary to reflect, because of course we are not satisfied with what has happened. First of all, I am referring to the values that are entered in the competitions. As the gentlemen know. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a political statement here that requires the 2009 levels to be reached in these areas. We have verified that, with this strengthening of appropriations, these values have already approached some of this level, but we are still here. Is the Government willing to move forward immediately for this amount? This is a fundamental issue. Secondly, I am referring to this new model of support for the arts. We have great reservations about the model, because, despite the consultations that have been made, the fact is that we have reached a situation, the results have been verified, in which much of what is recorded there seems simply absurd. It can't be! There is a great regional discrepancy, there are whole regions that disappear from the map in terms of support, there are historical companies, let us say, that are not contemplated. Obviously, all this deserves us not only a reflection but a protest movement. in this sense, we demand that this matter be settled. Are you available to review the new model of support for the arts, taking into account the finding and size of the mistakes that have been made? This is of the greatest importance. Finally, I am referring to a question as simple as this: we have systematically criticised the underfinancing of culture and have been opposed to this government in this matter. But we have a relationship with you that is a dialogue and that goes in the direction of solving the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u32	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u33	Therefore, we want to know whether you are available to start working together immediately so that we can reach the 1 % target of the culture budget. This is another fundamental issue. As for the ladies. Members of the right-wing seats, we will certainly hear them and we will count on them, but we do not take them very seriously with these initiatives that they have just presented to ride the wave of discontent. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u34	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first point we can always highlight in the debates that we have been conducting on culture is that we are all, unanimously, dissatisfied with the values mobilized for the sector. However, saying this does not mean recognizing that today the main deficit in this debate is budgetary or funding; today, the main deficit in this debate is that of memory and seriousness of the CDS in the way the debate views it and puts it on the agenda. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I speak of seriousness precisely because it is important to be clear to what we are discussing. And we're discussing three things as if they were the same: we're discussing the financial envelope, we're discussing the regulation of art support and we're discussing a provisional list that can still be corrected. Mixing three debates that are different is not serious and does not contribute to clarifying the issues related to this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would say more: to reiterate the idea that this is the greatest ever attack on culture is a fact that does not correspond to the reality of numbers. Between 2013 and 2016, there was support of EUR 45, EUR 6 million for the sector. The amount provided for in the initial allocation of this invitation to tender was EUR 64 million, an increase of 41 % — I repeat, 41 %! — the funds available. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moreover, after the increase indicated by the Prime Minister, this increase of EUR 2 million per year amounted to an increase of 59 %. Repeat: 59 %! When we talk about convergence, let me disagree on something Mrs Ana Mesquita had just said. Convergence is with you, convergence will continue to be with you and convergence translates into an inverter of a cycle. [[Right now, the speaker displayed a chart.]] I am again abusing the graphics, in the way of Prof. Assumption Cristas, to stress that where there was no convergence was in the years of the decrease of these values and where there is convergence now is when this arrow of this graph pushes up, when it goes up. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the fact that you are going up does not mean that you go up from one moment to the next and that it is also possible, from one day to the next, to make the mobilization that everyone would like. It has been possible to make this mobilization and we will continue our efforts to do so. By the way, I'm going back to forgetting the CDS. The CDS does not remember the fact that it voted for the sector itself and the follow-up that the previous government was doing in this area. Let's remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the fact that the monitoring committees of the previous programmes, at least since 2013, 2014, are indispensable for indicators that today would allow more stringent competitions to be turned off. It is that the previous government has left a legacy of zero follow-up to previous programmes, which makes it difficult for the seriousness and evaluation capacity to be made when looking at this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Teresa Caeiro, did you talk about Mafra? Oh, my God! Since 2014 the previous government announced « it is for the next month », « it is for the next month », « it is for the next month ». Actually now the Court of Auditors has given the visa, effectively now it will solve a problem of 14 years and effectively now the lanes will not fall and will again play the bells in Mafra. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us also remember the investment in the tables of Vieira da Silva. Preventing Miró's paintings from being destroyed and leaving the national territory and investing in acquisitions, such as the recent acquisition for the National Museum of Ancient Art, are in fact structured policies with the resources we have. It is not the resources we would like to have and we are not satisfied with them, I say it again, but we are pleased that there is investment in what is possible, which makes a difference from the previous picture. As we continue this debate, I also think it is important to focus on another aspect. Mrs Ana Mesquita spoke recently about matters relating to the jury. Now, if there are problems with the jury, this is the stage to solve these problems, this is the stage of the complaints, this is the stage to note the elements that you have mentioned today and that may possibly show a problem in the assessments of the applications. And they're going through the legal deadlines for that. If we want to be serious about the allocation of values in culture, we need juries, we need regulations, we need something that does not introduce subjectivity but introduce objective criteria, which is what is needed. Finally, in view of what Mrs Margarida Mano had just said, a large part of the companies she referred to had their problems solved due to the increase in the budgetary perimeter, precisely because it was recognized that a new model implies transition and, involving transition, the candidatures could have settled in previous assumptions. The candidatures need adjustment and, with the reinforcement announced by the Prime Minister, there was an increase of 43 entities, only on the provisional list, which are already covered. Therefore, we do not only have 140 but, yes, 183 entities that will be supported — more than 43 in the previous cycle — as this effectively represents the increase in average funding for each of them and the additional possibility of already responding and solving part of the problems we have encountered. This is the debate that was good for us to be able to achieve again values for the area of culture in the Budget for next year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u36	You have the floor to speak, Mr. Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u37	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The first point I would like to make in this debate is the recognition of the continuing failure of the cultural policy that the CDS has come here today. When Mrs Teresa Caeiro said in her initial speech that in culture she did not turn the page, she was making a brutal self-criticism to the culture policy of the previous government. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] Therefore, I think very well, Mrs. Member. It is unfortunate that they gave absolutely no answers when they had the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u38	Well caught this one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u39	Catched in the curve!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u40	In fact, there is a expectation that this page will be turned over, and the Minister has that responsibility. That's the expectation that's created. Let us be honest: when culture represents a real crumb at the level of public money that the government has to distribute, any ridiculous increase represents something significant in this tiny budget. Let us be honest and speak the truth, Minister! It is not worth talking here about 60-percent increases when we know that these are absolutely ridiculous things in a budget that is ridiculous. in this debate, I have only two very concrete questions to ask Mr Minister, but I think these are two absolutely structural questions. One of them is: what is preventing the government from allocating EUR 25 million for the support of the arts? What are you preventing, Minister? It is because the Minister will have to explain this framed because, as the Greens mentioned in yesterday's debate with the Prime Minister, there are things that the Portuguese cannot understand. What is the government's commitment to increase the defence budget in front of NATO, in front of the European Union, in front of everything that is structure, and in an area that does not interest anything to increase expenditure? The government has that commitment. There are political options to make here. Why do we always have money to fit into the banking sector, like 780 million for the New Bank? There's something here that you can't understand! Mr Minister, it is decades of cultural support. Why did the government have this extraordinary ability to reduce the deficit when no one asked you for that deficit number for 2017? The government had a goal that could have been met, but not; it wanted to be "more papist than the Pope", well below the deficit with which it had committed itself. EUR 1400 million was what was wasted on investment that could have been made, for example also in the area of culture. That is to say, in view of all this reality, Minister, what is preventing the government from allocating EUR 25 million for the support of the arts? The second question I want to ask you is this: what is the way in which the government is going to reach 1 % for culture in the State budget? As I am sure that, with your Government, it has not yet been able to exceed 0, 2 % of the State budget of what is representative of the budget for the culture, my question is the following: what is the way that the government is planning to move towards 1 % for the culture in the State budget? Mr Minister, the answers to these questions must be given. The Government cannot just say that it has increased 60 percent to support the arts over a four-year period in the Budget, when the Minister knows that this is virtually insignificant, since we are talking about a fairly small budget. It is EUR 215 million in support of the arts. That is the way to go, Minister. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u41	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Carlos Barros, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u42	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for Culture, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government has just announced the re-filling of about 40 artistic structures through an invitation to tender at the pre-hearing stage, and it is clear that this announcement, in this drift, the Government announces, at the same time, the failure of a new model of financial support for the arts which, after two years to be drawn up, ceases to serve the exact moment it enters into force. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u43	As we said a lot ago, it is now understood better than in culture, after all, the king goes naked. And the king goes naked since it was realized that the budget of culture in 2016, after all, in real terms, and without the ability to include RTP money there, was less than 2015 of the PSD / CDS government in 2, 9 million euros. Don't worry about it! [[PSD applause.]] In 2015, yes ; not in 2012, when the country was under rescue- has already tried to compare here what cannot be compared. The king goes naked since it was realized that the DGArtes budget in 2016, a PS budget, the Left Block and the PCP, was after all smaller than the 2015 budget...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u44	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u45	..., the last of the PSD Government / CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u46	And what was the proposal you made?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u47	Against myths and propagation, the fact and the problem is that the failure of the current model of art support can cause damage for several years still in the artistic creation sector, which objectively is bad news for culture, for cultural agents and for the country. Minister, what will you do to this failed support model that has been building for two years? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u48	Mrs. Members, the Bureau does not register. I remember that what is planned and what is customary, the party that launched the debate closes it, and the government has already announced that I would like to have all the questions before I answer them. [[Pause.]] You have the floor to speak, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u49	Mr President, it is true that there is a very clear issue in this debate: it is that the PSD and the CDS run away from what their enormous responsibilities were in the disaster we came to in the area of culture. And those responsibilities cannot be squambled, because, in case of Mr. Ladies and gentlemen don't remember, there were huge protests, huge fighting actions during your government in the area of culture... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Maybe they're having memory problems, but we're not! I also want to say that it is true that there is a problem here: the government's refusal to give an objective and concrete answer to resolve the contradictions that have been generated only helps the PSD and CDS create the myth that everything is worse now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u50	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u51	At the time, when they were in the government, the problems were very serious. But now this cannot be allowed to be the speech in force. Therefore, the questions we put aim to know what concrete steps are going to be taken to solve all this, i.e. in relation to the EUR 25 million that are necessary for the support of the arts and to know, in relation to 1 % for the culture, what steps will be taken. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, we would also like to know whether you are going to converge with the CFP in the draft resolution we have adopted on this matter in relation to the reinforcements of support, in relation to the need to review this matter of the jury and in relation to the need for revision of the model itself. These are the issues we left on the table. We are not satisfied with this process. Now there are 184 supported structures, in 2009 were 223. There is still a long way to go. They need concrete and objective answers, Mr Minister, not for us, but for those who are out there today, for those who will be focused on various points in the country demanding a different policy for culture. What, then, is the government's objective response to the fair demands of culture in our country? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u52	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u53	Mr President, the government has created many expectations in the culture sector, guaranteed respect and dignity and failed. It has, of course, failed when it extended the scope of a competition without ensuring a sufficient financial allocation, and the result is in sight: there are dozens of very important structures for the country at risk of closing doors. It is therefore necessary now to correct the present and prepare for the future. At present, it has already been said that the reinforcement will be 19 million. At the time of the PSD government / CDS, it was 11 million... this is another league! We're talking in another league, which doesn't connect PSD/CDS! But it's not enough! to the 19 million additional 6 million must be added to reach 25 million, which guarantee the sector and ensure that all structures that are financed remain financed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u54	That's where the Block goes...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u55	But let's talk about the future, and the future is already in 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u56	That's where the Block goes...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u57	The Prime Minister says that the amount now transferred, 19 million, guarantees stability in the sector, but it happens that the stability of the sector is precarious, the stability of the sector is the rope to the neck, the stability of the sector is not known tomorrow...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u58	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u59	We do not need to guarantee — and I will finish, Mr President — the stability of the sector; we need to create the stability of the sector, and the stability of the sector is created by 1% of the Budget. And it's humiliating, it's much less than the government's margin for the 2018 deficit. So they can tell us that they don't want to do it, but don't tell us that it's not possible, because we know that it's possible to do it already in 2019. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u60	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for 8 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to point out very telegraphically that there are numbers for the debate: 48 new supported entities; 82 supporting entities; a total of 183 supported structures, more than 43 in the previous cycle; and an adjustment of funds, precisely given that there are amendments to the regulation at the request of the sector to ensure sustainability, in particular the need to guarantee 60 % of funding for each of them and also to ensure regional balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u62	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u63	I shall conclude, Mr President. Are there aspects that can be improved? Of course! This parliamentary group is available for convergence, but, Mrs Ana Mesquita, convergence means we meet in the middle of the bridge and there is no surrender from the side. I think we can continue the dialogue and we will find a balanced solution capable of responding to everyone's problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u64	Mrs. Heloísa Apolónia still wants to use the word?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u65	Mr. President, I just want to hear the answers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u66	The Minister for Culture then has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our convergence is with the parties that support this government in Parliament...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u68	Sure! And that they approved the State budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u69	...and with whom we made the agreements that you know each other. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's our convergence! currently, with regard to the support for the arts, we have managed to converge or, better than converge, to exceed the 2009 numbers : 21 % in 2009 and 21 % in 2018, 4 % in 2018. We, with the reinforcement we made to the competition to support the arts, reached and surpassed even the 2009 values, which was the sector's claim.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u70	That's not true! The scope of the contests was not the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u71	It is clear that this model was not conceived as a rigid model,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u72	Yeah, he's a discretionary!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u73	... as a pond model; the model was conceived as an evolutionary model, as a model that receives criticism of reality itself. The model is not immune to the reality of things and therefore due to the insufficiency of the allocation to satisfy the companies that have been declared eligible by the jury, the Government has taken the initiative of a boosting of 59 %. We reinforced the speech so that the model could better satisfy, with more justice...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u74	You're comparing the incomparable. The scope of the competitions is not the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u75	...and more rigorously, the candidatures. Is there something to correct? Of course. For example, creation and programming. In fact, we wanted to do so, but only because of insufficient funding is that we did not make that distinction. As for theatres, in relation to decentralization, we put a ceiling of 45% per flat region, where applications from a flat region could never exceed 45% of the total candidacy. But our work is not limited to supporting the arts. We reconstituted the Fundação do Côa ; we, as it was remembered, finally succeeded in the rehabilitation of the lanes of Mafra ; we were able to buy the paintings of Vieira da Silva, which could leave the country; we bought the paintings of Álvaro Pires de Évora. With regard to museums, we have given our full attention to a complex problem, which cannot therefore be solved with formulas that do not respect reality. Our commitment is clear: we want and agree with the wishes of the sector. With regard to those on the street, who are manifesting themselves, I wanted to say the following: count on this government, count on our support and count on our commitment... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ...and with our will to meet the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u76	And with the money too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u77	This government has heard the sector, will continue to listen to it and will continue on the path of convergence with the parties that currently support this government solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u78	To close the debate, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u79	Mr President, I look at it again, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State and Mrs. Members, the sad spectacle that the majority played in recent days would give the ideal motto to Gil Vicente to write a new piece, a farce—not of Inês Pereira but that of António Costa—and would not need to pull much by the head: the role of Pero Marques, the betrayed husband, would be of the cultural agents and the central role, that of Inês Pereira, would naturally fit Antonio Costa. Gil Vicente would have only one difficulty, to find a role for Mr. Minister of Culture, but with imagination, perhaps he could succeed. in an abbreviated version, history can be told as follows: António Costa, willing to win the 2015 legislative elections, bets many tokens in culture and promises that it will not only constitute a Ministry of Culture as it will reach the goal of 1% of the State Budget. But soon it was realized that the passion for culture did not pass, after all, a summer passion that quickly forgot. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u80	The first State Budget of this Government was the first signal, with a budget for austere culture rather than austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u81	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u82	The second sign follows, with the resignation of the Minister, four months later, and with disturbances on all fronts: from polemic in cinema to captivating in support of social, regional and local communication, passing through still non-existent, program contracts with national theatres, little or nothing was left. The final march is now given, with the contest of support for the arts, which definitely ignits the sector, that drags it to the greatest challenge of all time in the area of culture and leaves the nude in which it fell. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Cultural agents feel betrayed and are absolutely right. They learned that, after all, austerity remains, that culture represents only a few parks 0, 2 % of the State budget — and I say - slowly so that it is understood - and that the Minister for Culture has no weight, no force or even presence. Worse, they perceive worse; they realize that the so-called taste buds of culture — BE, PCP and The Greens — shout a lot and cry more, but they are also part of this great farce. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u83	Not only do they allow such a state of affairs as they favour Budgeting and allow a regulation to pass, which now entered into force, they say has to be revised. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] It is with you, because you support this government, that you have approved the Budget which they now say is insufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u84	In CDS time it was good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u85	And what does the protagonist of history do to all this? He amends his hand and, as is his custom, makes the square of the circle, throwing money on the problem. Unfortunately, this time it does not solve the issue. The problem remains and persists and the culture continues in an emergency state. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] at this moment, what we have is incoherent, inconsequent and insufficient. The story doesn't end here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are waiting for the end of history, and we hope that there will be a happy end, but we also hope that you will be consistent and do what you learn and never practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u86	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u87	I shall end, Mr President, with the tolerance that has given the other parties. The majority should thank the CDS for this debate, because at least it made the country know that there is even a Minister of Culture. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u88	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the current debate required by the CDS-PP, under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on problems in the area of culture. We are now moving to the second point with the general debate on Bill No 111 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to approve a more favourable tax and contribution scheme for maritime transport and a special collection of material based on tonnage of vessels. For an intervention, Mr. Minister of the Sea, Ana Paula Vitorino.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u89	Mr President, I am very pleased to see you resume your high duties. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with high expectations that I submit to VV assessment. For example, this bill, which aims to authorize the Government to create a new tax and contribution system which, together with the simplification measures and the expected increase in efficiency, boosts the growth of the national merchant fleet and maritime employment. The national fleet, under the conventional record, has suffered a dwindling decline in the last 40 years, with only two ships registered today and an estimated 90 % decrease in crews compared to the 1980s. Portugal has lost competitive advantages in the conventional registration while other European countries have, in due course, implemented more competitive regimes. The European benchmarking, which I promoted, concluded that the majority of the Member States of the European Union have adopted the Dutch tonnage tax model because it has become simpler with regard to the smaller number of classes of ships, stairs, coefficients and other elements of determining the collectable matter. In short, the proposal I am presenting today includes three structural measures for the promotion of merchant marines: a special scheme for determining the collectable matter subject to IRC (tax on the income of legal persons) based on the tonnage of ships, designated by the tonnage tax regime, but also the exemption of IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) from the remuneration taken from that quality by crew members and, moreover, a special social security rate of 6 %, of which 4, 1 % for the employer and 1, 9 % for the worker, with the State supporting the differential in order not to diminish social protection. With these measures we looked forward to recovering 50 % of the lost fleet and employment in the last 40 years, in just five years, in addition to the equally expected increase in vessels registered in the International Register of Madeira Ships ( MAR ). The diploma shall also include measures to simplify the registration of merchant ships whose subject does not include the exclusive reservation of the legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic. Because of its economic and social importance we have the reception of VV. Ex.. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u90	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government intends to approve, by legislative authorization, a special taxation scheme for maritime transport activity and a tax and contribution benefit scheme applicable to its crew members. The proposal aims to create a special tax system, the so-called tonnage tax, based on the tonnage of vessels for companies opting to register their vessels in the Portuguese conventional register provided they are strategically and commercially managed from a Member State of the European Union. The proposal is that the subject matter collected for IRC be determined according to the tonnage of the vessel with a special determination regime which clearly leads to a profound reduction of the collectable matter. In practice there is an accounting change in this subject which can be collected under this special scheme and consequently there is a substantial reduction in the tax paid with particular relevance by transnational economic groups, in particular European giants. On the other hand, there is a reduction in the burden of these shipowners with the work factor, particularly with the social security regime in which the shipowner's charges are about 12 times lower than those of the other companies and the workers' charges are about 15, 7 times lower than those of the other workers on behalf of others, supporting the other taxpayers, in both cases, these differences. The proposal, in its basic orientation, is essentially an approximation to the conventional registration of certain aspects which we consider deeply negative for the registration presented by the International Register of Madeira Ships. With regard to this record of Madeira it is important to question what has been the real impact on the country of advantages and benefits given, by this convenience regime, to shipowners in their vast majority of other stops and latitudes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u92	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u93	At least since 2014 the MAR, so-called, has held the fourth position at European level and its growth has been spectacular either in terms of number of registered vessels ( 250 % increase in five years ) or in particular in tonnage (910 % in five years ). The question that needs to be asked is: what benefits has this brought to the placement of Portuguese seafarers? For the Portuguese naval industry? For the balance of maritime transport and their freight? We are talking about nearly 500 ships, which, despite being registered in Portugal and flying the Portuguese flag, are in fact — I repeat — foreign vessels in their overwhelming majority without any effective relationship with the country, either in the operational plane or in the strategic plane. The central issue for the country is the need to revive and develop our merchant navy but in real, concrete, effective terms and not only in formal and statistical terms. The government, the PS, the PSD and the CDS will say: it is preferable to charge less tax to many companies than to very little tax. The problem is that this argument, of the supposed fiscal competitiveness, is the same thing that invariably opens the door to benefits and exemptions for the same as usual,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u94	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u95	... at the expense of the workers and the people, in an auction of privileges that we cannot accept. We've heard, too long ago, that veiled threat that we'll get worse if we don't give them what they want, but what life has already shown, over and over again, is that for more than...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u96	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u97	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, what life has already shown is that, however much we give them, they will say that it is not enough; these supposed inevitability are the problem and not the solution and, of course, they cannot have our support. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u98	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u99	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members : Mrs Minister, we understand, and we support, that this was a measure that the sector asked for a long time ago and, as you mentioned and well, it is a measure that aims to support the national shipowners, the national branding navy, attracting new international shipowners to the Portuguese conventional registration—he said, well, that only two ships are registered, I had the idea that there were three, I was adding one more — and, of course, also supporting, with this tax regime, Portuguese crews and the fixing of a reduced competitive rate does not seem to us to be a bad idea at risk. We need to look at a little more detail, and I think we can do it in the field of expertise, for some doubts that still remain, on our part, about this regime, although I realize that this is something that has been asked by the sector. But perhaps the little effectiveness of this measure may have to do with another one, which is not currently under discussion and on which we have asked several still unanswered questions, which is that of Portugal being the only country that does not yet allow armed guards on ships, which, perhaps, would also be a way to help the Portuguese merchant navy. We have some doubts, which I would like to clarify, on this matter. The first has to do with the rational, which seems to me to answer the question of the Portuguese Communist Party about Portuguese workers. Thus, with regard to the draft diploma, Article 3. The special arrangements for determining the collection material applicable to maritime transport activities shall be laid down for the crew of the vessel to be 50 % Portuguese nationality, a country of the European Union or a country of official Portuguese language. If this seems to be a protection of employment, at the same time it may be a barrier to shipowners, and therefore I would like to appreciate a little better the rationality of this proposal. In view of the fluctuations in the sector, we also believe that the minimum period of stay in this scheme, which is set out in Article 2. the option exercise, which is five years, could be greater, because it seems to us, in general countries that have chosen this incentive, time is greater. So, also on this matter, looking at what was the cargo movement, the ship movement and what is happening today, it seems to me that we could consider since the oscillations may not allow us to derive all the benefits of this regime. Then, with regard to the determination of the collectable matter and what could be an incentive given by a member of the Government, of reductions of 10 % and 20 % to the amount of collectable matter, to vessels exceeding 50 tonnes and which had to do with environmental protection measures or actions, I did not understand exactly what they were. What exactly are we talking about? Are ships using fuel and taking environmental protection measures, at the bottom of what is a measure that is in the National Strategy for the Sea, which is the supply of ships with liquefied natural gas? That is to say, we want to understand a little bit of what we are talking about so that eventually we can better certify our position and do something that seems very useful to us. As it is in the National Strategy for the Sea and it is consensual in all parties, what Portugal has to do is take advantage of this opportunity, either with those of the silk route, either with those of the sea routes, or with the huge potential that Portugal has in its own extension of the platform.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u100	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u101	I will finish immediately, Mr. President. We have to look very seriously at the potential at sea for the Portuguese economy and therefore we are in principle in favour of this Government proposal, but we are available to discuss our doubts as a specialist. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u102	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of the Sea: This bill aims to create a more favourable tax regime for vessels wishing to fly Portuguese flag, but the country already has a favourable tax regime based in Madeira and which, in the view of catching vessels for registration in Portugal, shows success ; if success is assessed only by the criteria of the number of vessels, it is already more than 500. And, therefore, in this perspective, there is already a competitiveness factor for the country in the field of shipping. In fact, when it comes to an island or outermost region, whose economy is fragile, it is justified in principle that there is a differentiated, more favourable tax treatment, and another debate will be the concrete application of this concept. The first question, therefore, is whether this proposal will improve the overall position of the country in terms of competitiveness. There are other issues pending to improve this competitiveness, including the problem of safety on board ships, when they occur in conflict zones or are subject to the phenomenon of piracy, speed in bureaucratic procedures and in the registration of licensing and training of seafarers. As regards the effects which are alleged to have on the explanatory statement with this scheme, the reality of Madeira's registration completely denies these effects. Developing national ports will not be achieved with such measures. Developing the shipbuilding industry, increasing investment, economic development or employment did not happen in the case of Madeira. It is not with this set of measures that we have achieved these objectives, how much we will have more ships with the Portuguese flag. But what about it? They will not have any more crew members, they will not travel from the routes they are currently operating, they will not replace their crew, because, in fact, the criterion for access is to have more than 50 % of crew members in the European Economic Area, which does not even require Portuguese citizens to have. This is part of the European objective of improving fiscal competitiveness, but it is no more than a fund run, in which everyone cuts tax rates and everyone loses tax revenue, which gives an ephemeral advantage, because soon another partner country will take the same type of action and disappears the advantage that this scheme can bring. What would be a paradigm shift to strengthen employment, encourage industry and the role of our ports would be public investment in requalification, in communication routes, particularly in the railways of the ports, to connect them to the interior of the continent, investment in the shipbuilding and ship repair industry. This, yes, would have a very important role in the country's growth, employment and economic development. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u104	You have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mr João Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The merchant navy is particularly important for the development of the economy of the sea, as an opportunity window which impresses maritime transport a new dynamic. In Portugal, and in contrast to the successive increase in the volume of cargo enlivened in national ports, maritime transport has been losing competitiveness and importance, with the consequent loss of employment opportunities, removing young people from this activity. The strategic analysis for the increase of port competitiveness on the horizon 2026 even identifies as weakness to consider the decline of the fleet with national flag. Despite the growth in the International Register of Madeira Ships, with about 500 vessels, Portugal, in fact in the first register, moved from more than 250 vessels, which held in the 1970s, to two carriers registered since 2017. The European Union stressed in maritime transport policy 2020 the establishment of more favourable national tax regimes, promoting the competitiveness of European shipping. The Government Programme, approved in this House, refers to the sea as a future bet, refers to the promotion of maritime transport in the face of Portugal's geographical position, recognizing the potential of affirmation not only in port and logistics but also in transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u107	It objectively defines the increase in the number of vessels with national flag, in order to provide the country with a load capacity supply, reducing the almost absolute dependence currently existing, on international shipping and at the same time increasing the offer of employment for Portuguese crew members. It even points out the intention to carry out a European benchmarking which will enable Portugal to replicate the most favourable legal and fiscal conditions, in compliance with the applicable European and international rules. It is precisely what is intended with this legislative initiative, in which the Government achieves another objective of its Programme, promoting the national merchant navy, encouraging the promotion of the fleet of ships with Portuguese flag with the designated tonnage tax, a tax regime adjusted to reality, determining the collectable matter for shipping companies of goods and people, as well as a specific contribution regime aimed at crews, stimulating the increase of seafarers in Portugal. The autonomous regions have been heard, which have issued favourable positions, and there are suggestions to consider, in the context of the current legislative process, both the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, and the Regional Governments of the Azores and Madeira, as well as public positions of different national maritime groups. The PS Parliamentary Group therefore welcomes the proposal presented here today, on a cross-cutting basis to different sectors, with implications for port activity, finance, social security, work or even defence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u108	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u109	I conclude now, Mr President. We are talking about a matter of sea, we are talking about the economy of the sea, we are talking about the realisation of the Portuguese sea. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u110	You have the floor, too, for one speech, Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is known that the PSD understands the development of the economy of the sea as a decisive instrument to realize a country more committed to the use of endogenous resources, to the creation of qualified employment and thus with better bases to ensure its autonomy. This objective is particularly relevant today, insofar as it is seen that, perhaps in the next two or three years, Portugal will benefit, due to an increase in the continental shelf, from a territory under its jurisdiction in the order of 4 million square kilometres, corresponding to 90 % of the immersed territory. So Portugal will inevitably find its window of freedom there, as it has happened in the past, which is obviously an imperative that must govern public policies, insofar as it convenes aspects of an economic nature but extends to the geostrategic, social and identity dimensions lasting and of very wide scope. It is from this point of view that we appreciate all matters relevant to the sea. That is why it is indisputable that it is important to have a strong maritime policy and, in order to achieve it, a country should not, under any circumstances, dispense a merchant marine, whether the same means from the point of view of the related sectors, such as shipbuilding and ship repair, ports, job opportunities and to some extent national security issues, that is because, in the context of the exponential growth of maritime traffic and with the intensity of trade, the country has to be able to create conditions to be leader, in an area in which it has obvious comparative advantages and which must be one of the most relevant driving forces of the economy. It must be said, and I want to say that in an absolutely indisputable way, that it is incomprehensible, almost absurd, that the country, for decades, has been witnessing the loss of the merchant marine without reaction and has never been able to mobilize to try to counter this trend, when the merchant marine must be a decisive pillar of the economy. in this sense, the proposal we are discussing today deserves our consideration and deserves to be considered in the specialty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u112	But what speciality? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u113	...not without, however, failing to make a few comments. On the one hand, it is paradoxical that a government, whose action has been to increase taxes on companies, intends in this case to reduce them, since the desirable would be a general tax breakdown of IRC, which offers predictability and security in order to attract investment, investment, that country does not have by the hand of the government, that the government cut and that it needs to mobilize, whether it is foreign or not, because we do not have many conditions to attract it. On the other hand, this proposal should be accompanied by other matters,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u114	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u115	... and we have already asked the government, many times, to do so, because the issues of tonnage tax and tax and tax and tax framework are not the only determining questions to regenerate the merchant navy. Other issues must be brought here, particularly in the context of maritime training, ratification of international treaties and armed guards on board.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u116	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u117	Therefore, not being the answer to all evils, nevertheless, it deserves our concerted effort in the specialty and we will be open to evaluate the best solutions for the country in this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u118	To conclude the assessment of Bill No 111 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), you have the floor to Ms. Minister of the Sea, Ana Paula Vitorino.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u119	Mr. President, thank you all. Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I would like to say that this diploma is part of an even wider package, whose policy is to create a national system of vessels and seafarers, which has already been authorised by this House, and which is also associated with simplification measures relating to recreational nautical activity, seafarers' professional activity and the authorisation, registration and licensing of vessels used in fishing, the preparation of which is in the final stage. The problems that have been raised today are being followed, with particular attention to the need for a security regime on board ships, to deal with the phenomena of piracy. With regard to this proposal, there are some clarifications that I would like to make now, without prejudice to others, elsewhere. I would like to mention, on the one hand, the substantial differences between this regime and the international regime in Madeira, which alone substantially raised the revenue of that autonomous region as far as the merchant navy is concerned, but this regime requires that, in order to be adopted, there should be a transfer of decision-making centres to Portugal, which, from then on, increases the likelihood of an increase in all related activities, including ship maintenance and repair. On the other hand, it also imposes a minimum level of national crew members, which, of course, because of our integration into the European Union, must cover European citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u120	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u121	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is therefore a regime desired for decades by the merchant marine sector, and by all political areas, which comes to meet those that are the primary needs of the sector and for which Portugal departs in a disadvantaged position, because it has been successively postponed, in time, the moment of decision on the revisions of its competitive conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u122	You really have to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u123	We want to recover and count on VV. Ex. To get it. We therefore look forward to the approval of this bill by this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u124	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the debate on the proposal for a regulation No 111 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), so we will generally consider Bill No 112 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines the mission and tasks of the National Crime Victim Support Commission. To present the bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Helena Mesquita Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u125	Mr President, first of all, I would like to begin by complimenting you, and the whole Bureau, as well as the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a noble mission here. This proposal for a law submitted by the Government to Parliament fulfils the commitment it has made in its Programme to reform the current Commission for the Protection of Victims of Crime (CPVC). As we know, the costs of victimization for the victims themselves and society are gigantic and public policies of justice and internal security are increasingly focused on reducing victimization and on supporting and protecting victims of crime. With this bill, the government seeks to respond to those political-criminal challenges, promoting a greater balance in how the criminal justice system frames the protagonists of the criminal drama. However, this proposal for reform of the CPV does not involve a completely innovative approach to the model enshrined in the current Act No 104 / 2009. This proposal aims, on the one hand, to improve the system of compensation for victims of crime and, on the other, to explicitly commit to the Commission the task of ensuring that victims of crime and citizens in general, by various means, the necessary and useful information in terms of protection and support. In addition, the Commission's powers are extended, allowing it to promote the financing of projects aimed at the support and protection of victims of crimes, whose funds will be allocated by prior selection in the field of duly advertised procedure. A conceptual harmonisation is also sought between the victims of violent crime and the victims of domestic violence contained in Law No 104/2009, with the homologous figure of particularly vulnerable victim, which is currently provided for in Article 67 ( 1 ( b ). o -A of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It should also be pointed out that the circumstance, as a result of this harmonisation, of the victim of domestic violence has ceased to appear autonomously, before integrating himself into the figure of particularly vulnerable victim, does not mean less protection to these victims or their secondaryization; on the contrary, it reflects this government's ambition to intensify the direct financial effort to support these victims and to support projects and responses that have as recipients the victims of this crime, which so much suffering entails. It is also worth mentioning that, through this diploma, if you have extended the range of violent crimes, which are capable of integrating the right to compensation, such as compensation for victims of terrorist crimes. Finally, and in view of the increased powers of this body of the Ministry of Justice, the designation of the Crime Victims Protection Commission, contained in Law No 104 / 2009, is amended to « National Crime Victim Support Commission », seeking to give it a greater projection in the sphere of its operation. We have therefore expanded, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the responses of information and support to victims of crime, taking into account the challenges facing the system and current budgetary framework of the Ministry of Justice. Part of our own revenue will also be channelled to this body. We are thus taking an important path, based on solid steps, with a real projection in people's lives. We are sure and will be persistent in vision and in the following direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u126	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, who wish to speak in this debate, please sign up in good time. Mr Vania Dias da Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The adoption of policies to improve the system of protection for victims of crime is a good programmatic principle, that the CDS obviously communicates. The focus here must essentially be on three questions: in the repair of damage, in the protection of the victim and in the prevention of revitalization. And, as we all know, positive steps have been taken, particularly with the status of the victim, with the regime of compensation to victims of violent crimes and domestic violence and also with the committee, which is now intended to be densified in its powers. And in this the APAV (Portuguese Victim Support Association) and other private entities have been a very important armed arm, which I take advantage of to leave a tribute. But, Madam Secretary of State, more needs to be done in this area, particularly in terms of protection of the victim and the prevention of revitalization. And this bill does not go to the essential, it only looks at the accessory and, at some points, it is wrong, as I will tell you. There are several doubts here that the CDS has and that they lack a lot of weight, a lot of study and consultations to those on the ground, under penalty of something that apparently is beneficial to be transformed into a harmful thing. The first problem, the Secretary of State, is in the concept of victim. It seems to us that there are criteria here that cease to be objective and that even in a certain way the door to a certain guilt of the victim is opened. I speak of Article 17. the, paragraph 2 ( c ) of the Bill No 112 / XIII ( 3 ). a ), which says that « The circumstances of the crime and the conduct of the victim(...) » must be addressed, and it is important to understand what this means, because, if it is what appears, it actually leads to victimization, which cannot happen at all. We still have a second problem when, it seems, the relationship between compensation or compensation, as it is now called, and economic insufficiency falls. We need to see whether this actually happens, if there is indeed a gap between compensation and economic insufficiency here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u128	And that's good or bad?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u129	It is also necessary to densify this concept in order to prevent there being a problem here. Finally, the Secretary of State, we also see with some concern the extension of the powers of the Commission, with the financing of projects and activities. In this thesis we would not be concerned about, what we think is that there is a lack of human resources with the necessary multidisciplinaryity and a problem of capacity, which the Commission will face and which, therefore, will probably become just a dead letter and in which the Commission will not do what it is responsible for. That is why, Madam Secretary of State, and to conclude, we will have to understand what it is possible to do here, because there are, in fact, several matters that deserve correction and others that do not even seem to have correction. So we'll have to watch this quietly. I also say that the essential thing is missing, and that is the question I leave you with. As I said recently, in the protection measures and measures to prevent revitalization we know that there are lack of social responses, many cases are known that are not signaled in time and in which the victim even ends up being.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u130	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u131	I shall finish, Mr President, by telling the Secretary of State that this was what we needed to answer and that is what we expect. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u132	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u133	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: We understand the goodness that certainly was on the basis of this bill. We welcome the objective of improving the system of support and protection for victims, in particular the compensatory regime for victims of crimes, but we cannot fail to express the strangeness of some of the options taken here. The first question concerns the dilution of the concept of victims of domestic violence and its integration into the broader concept of especially vulnerable victims. It is correct, but it is not even possible to disregard the symbolic importance of the empowerment and explicit identification of victims of domestic violence in this and other diplomas. One cannot ignore the positive effect and impulse that this can result in the fight against domestic violence and the consolidation of a paradigm of rejection and condemnation of domestic violence, which is still the most deadly crime in Portugal. It is too early to disregard this important effect of the empowerment of domestic violence, or of its victims, in any legal degree and therefore we do not follow this option. The second question concerns what remains, in our view, a reduced understanding of the concept of victim, especially in the light of what is required by the Istanbul Convention. The reduction of the scope of understanding of a concept, in this case of the concept of victim, has the consequence to decrease the level of protection, which would be intended to increase or deepen. Thirdly, it is not understood to reverse the mechanism of automatic recognition of victims' need to receive financial compensation under the current scheme for their submission to an evaluation procedure to determine whether or not the victim will be entitled to any financial compensation. The need to find objective conditions, such as the existence or not of economic deficiency, cannot go beyond the verification of the conditions laid down in Article 17. the proposal of this law. These criteria are vague, subjective, and open the door to discretion and moral judgment by those who will have the responsibility to decide. It also seems to us that the extension of the Commission's functions would imply recognizing the need for other means and other competences for the exercise of these functions, which this bill does not do. In conclusion, and despite the kindness of this proposal in what is the objective of deepening the rights of victims of crime, it seems to us that, in the terms in which it is built, it ends up having the opposite effect. We believe that this bill has room to work and to be improved in the field of expertise and therefore we hope that there will be the necessary openness for this to happen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u134	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u135	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: First of all, I would like to greet all those who in some way contribute to improving the conditions of victims of crimes, in particular the Commission on Protection of Victims of Crime and the Portuguese Association for Support of Victims, who have done remarkable work, with the technical and financial means they have, and have contributed to the increasing number of victims of domestic violence and violent crimes being effectively supported. Even so, there are still many victims for supporting and considerable delays. Therefore, we believe that what is fundamental is to improve the victim protection system, make it faster and increase the funds and resources available so that no victim is left out. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, that is why we have not been able to understand this option from the Government, in what seems to be an attempt at miracle multiplication. We cannot see how the government intends to do more with the same resources, to cover more types of crimes, to cover more victims, and thus to run the risk of worsening the response and increasing delays. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in such a sensitive and important matter as this one recommends caution, even more so when most of the entities heard in this legislative process criticise the proposed amendments and rattle with the Government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the inconsistencies are so many that the intervention time does not allow me to identify all. I am now left with the incomprehensible monopoly logic that confers on the same entity the competence to instruct and decide on claims for compensation to victims and, at the same time, to assess and decide on the allocation of projects to private entities that promote the rights and protection of victims of crimes; or, for example, by the reversal of the logic and nature of a collegial body, when powers are allocated limited to the President of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not see ourselves in this model. We do not see ourselves in the model that suggests to the courts and the Public Prosecutor what to do and what to interfere with the separation of powers. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe in miracles, much less in miracles of multiplication. We do not believe that with the same resources and the same means more victims of crimes can be supported. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the right way to improve and strengthen the protection of victims of crimes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u136	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u137	Mr President, Secretary of State, Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament: The adoption of policies aimed at improving the system of protection for victims of crime and persons at risk is the programmatic commitment of the XXI Constitutional Government and also of the Socialist Party, so the bill today, here, is under discussion—and it welcomes itself—it assumes that it aims to improve the system of protection for victims of crimes and people at risk, by reforming the current Commission and the compensatory regime for support for victims. With this legislative initiative, the Commission's powers are extended, its designation is amended and it is entitled 'National Crime Victim Support Commission', trying to give it greater scope and projection, in the orbit of its action and intervention. It also highlights the fact that the regime regulates not only the granting by the State of compensation to victims of crime but also the subsidies granted to private non-profit entities that develop activities and projects to protect and promote the rights of victims of crime, adding the allocation of generic information skills to the Commission to victims of crime. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Commission will see its role strengthened by redefining its mission and tasks with the extension of its structure. However, above all, the most important thing is that the scope of the support provided is extended and cumulative requirements which existed in Article 2 are removed. , paragraph 1, of Law No 104 / 2009, in particular the requirement for temporary and absolute incapacity for work of at least 30 days for victims of violent crime and the requirement for serious economic shortage for victims of domestic violence. That is, we will surely have more victims of crime to be supported, which is worthy and entirely fair. It is particularly relevant and positive that the expansion of the range of violent crimes which are now eligible to integrate the right to compensation, including terrorist crimes, torture and other cruel, degrading or inhumane treatment, and the crime of aid to illegal immigration, appears to include terrorism, torture and other cruel, degrading or inhumane treatment. The right to information to victims is also central in this process, so it is intended that the new Commission will be able to provide more information, in particular as regards services and support to which victims may resort. We would like to highlight the concern about improving the interinstitutional link between this Commission and the victim support offices and the entities that have the mission to prevent and protect all those who lack this support. in this perspective, it is also enshrined the possibility of holding protocols and it is chosen as a form of preferential action the electronic platform. It also highlights the unifying purpose of this proposal, which is, in fact, praised in the opinion of the Advocates' Order. We would like to stress the importance of the catalogue of definitions for the application of the new cash law in Article 2. the, which the Supreme Council of the Magistracy considers relevant. In fact, the conceptualization of certain figures, which is intended to stabilize, of undetermined definitions or concepts, for better clarity, is relevant. However, we cannot move away from definitions enshrined in the Code of Criminal Procedure when the 2012 Directive is transposed, which we will refine in the field of specialty. Through this proposal, the dichotomy "victims of violent crimes" and "victims of domestic violence" is eliminated...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u138	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u139	I shall conclude, Mr President. This dichotomy is therefore eliminated, opting for the figure of the especially vulnerable victim. It should be pointed out that this amendment does not restrict the access of women victims of domestic violence to individual compensation or advances. Finally, given the complexity and sensitivity of this matter, we will be attentive to the contributions and opinions that are coming to 1. the Commission so that we can debug, in the field of expertise, doubts and some inconformities, in order to improve the unity of the legal system, ensure legal certainty and legal certainty in a field that requires clarity, objectivity, agility and strict compliance with the international conventions to which Portugal is subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u140	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u141	I shall conclude, Mr President. Above all, the main objective of this proposal is to guarantee the victims adequate support, protection and information, at the same time, which can ensure a modern legal-crinal state that does not exhaust itself...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u142	Madam Member, I have appealed to you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u143	... in the legal-penal persecution of the authors but which also goes to effective protection of the victim and prevention of revitalization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u144	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, Madam Secretary of State, starting this discussion from the accounting of the costs of the victims will be inadequate, until this matter, in fact, obliges us to reflect. I believe that the victim protection system, particularly victims of domestic violence and other violent crimes, is in many cases the most fragile. We understand that the proposal here is important. In fact, it recognises something that has been put on the table for several years, the need to strengthen the means, materials and human resources of this Commission, but it is also important to have the ability to see more about this. Much has been done but a lot is still to be done and we must continue to bet on the protection that the State has an obligation to guarantee all victims. The Commission's successive reports of activities have, over the course of several years, always alerted to the following: the need to strengthen means, the need to ensure a wide dissemination of the Commission's role. There will be many victims of violence in our country who do not know the existence of this Commission and the right to claim this compensation. In fact, data and reports show that in 2016 I believe 311 victims claimed this right. of these, victims of domestic violence were 197, and there were much more than 197 victims of domestic violence, unfortunately. It is therefore necessary to go much further in disseminating the objective of the existence of this Commission and the right that victims have to seek this compensation. The CFP has, as I said, been alerted for many years to the need for strengthening the means of this Commission. In 2015, on a proposal from the CFP, a law was adopted which allowed the increase in the monthly amount of compensation to be allocated to the victim and the form of his payment, precisely because the Commission's successive reports alerted to this need. But you need to go further. It must be ensured, Madam Secretary of State, that multidisciplinary teams supporting the courts have psychologists to ensure the monitoring of victims during the process. It is not acceptable for victims of domestic violence and others to be subjected to judicial proceedings without any psychological support. The participation of psychologists and other technicians in the follow-up of the victims must be ensured in the courts. We understand that the criterion of economic insufficiency is a criterion that must be studied. Support may be required by victims who have income below the minimum wage, even by an interpretation by the Commission which I believe is happy, because the legislation did not exactly focus on these terms. But over the years the Commission has taken care of interpreting from the value of guaranteed monthly income. This was important and certainly allowed to support more victims, but it needs to go further. I did not understand whether the CDS was against or in favour of removing the criterion of economic insufficiency.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u146	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u147	We know that it is evidence to restrict this support only to victims who have a lower income than the national minimum wage is very short and will leave out many victims who, with or without children, have very low incomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u148	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u149	I'm done, Mr. President. We are available for this discussion. Many opinions were received on this subject, full opinions, which put forward specific proposals for it. The CFP will be committed to this, but above all, so that the rights achieved here are translated into life. It is not enough to implement the law, it is necessary to carry out in life with the guarantee of the capacity to strengthen the material and human resources, and we will also work on that, Secretary of State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u150	We now move on to point 4 of our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolution No 1323 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — At the end of outsourcing in the provision of health care and psychological monitoring in prisons and guarantee of access to the health of prisoners ( BE ), of Bill No 814 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the existence of self-services for the provision of medical, nursing and psychology care in prisons( 5 ). the amendment to Law No 115 / 2009 of 12 October approving the Code for the Enforcement of Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom ( PCP ), in general, and draft resolution No 1462/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the contractual and wage stability of psychologists working in prison establishments ( NAPs ). To present the initiative of the responsibility of the Left Block, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State: There is a fundamental principle of dignity that has been taking its way over the years of this political and governmental solution. This principle is that the Public Administration should be the first to enforce the rule that, with permanent needs for the performance of a function, the person who performs it must be integrated in the respective institutions. The program for the regularization of public administration precariouss is to apply to all sectors of this Administration. No sector can be excluded from this regulation for no reason. Now, if there is a public administration instance in which the rule of law should prevail absolutely, it should be, for all reasons, the prison system. Unfortunately, it's not like that. It is entirely the opposite in many dimensions and also in this area, where there is precisely a recourse to precarious work for the performance of functions that are permanent. This is precisely the case of the provision of health care and psychological follow-up in prisons, where more than 7000 hours of work are contracted to companies under outsourcing for medical care, nursing care, psychological follow-up. This, above all, to four temporary workers, and these companies or simply resort to—as is the case with one, which provides services in tens and half of prisons — fraud, fraud, fraudulent failure not to pay due compensation to health professionals, or then pay them absolutely poor wages, which are less than €5 per hour of work, and deny fundamental rights to these professionals. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, an e-mail that we receive for this purpose from health professionals who provide health care in a prison establishment with this regime. He told us this e-mail: « We have been a permanent and indispensable need for more than 10 years, but so far we do not know anything about the program to regulate the problems in the Public Administration. What's going on? What answers do we have? Many of us are delaying their family, professional and personal lives waiting for an answer». For, quite well, it is this answer that the Left Block here recommends that the Government give and urgently: that it enables an internal health and psychological monitoring service in each prison establishment and that the professionals of that service have a stable bond, without resorting to intermediation, and appropriate to the exercise of that activity. That is what demands the dignity of the health professionals concerned; that is what is required by the State's obligation to care for the health of the prison population that is in its custody; that is what is required of a democratic rule of law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u152	To present the initiative of the CFP's authorship, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State: It is known that the Portuguese prison system is faced with very serious problems, and this is the subject of this legislative initiative, from our point of view, is not one of the least serious problems with which the prison system is debated. It is known that citizens who are in prison, and who should not be deprived of their dignity, have the right to obtain from prison services the necessary medical, nursing and psychological care. This is also enshrined in all existing legal diplomas on the subject, in particular in the Code for the Enforcement of Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom and the General Regulation of Prison Establishments. However, the situation with which the prison system is faced is far from that reality. We have recently heard, published in the media, that there are only 30 psychologists serving all prisons in the country, which are close to half a hundred. It is known that the situation in terms of the provision of medical and nursing services is very irregular. There will be prisons that have some effective facilities for this purpose, but this is not a generalized situation, far from that. What we know is that there are prison establishments in which even medication is provided to prisoners by the guards themselves, which is a very dangerous and unacceptable situation and which only occurs, effectively, because there are not in these medical and nursing institutions enough to do so. This is because, to a large extent, the prison system has been resorting to outsourcing for the provision of these services. What is known is that this service is provided by temporary workers who pay I will not pay, because they are situations of false green receipts, but unreasonable fees — this when they are paid, when there are no situations in which these fees are late — and with a service that is extremely poor in their provision. Now, what we propose, more than any recommendation, is that the Code for the Enforcement of Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom should clearly record the duty of the State to ensure its own services of health care, nursing care and psychological support in prisons. This is what we propose and can be done with the collaboration of the National Health Service, but what is essential is that there is a framework of health, nursing and psychology professionals in prisons and that this is a duty of the State registered on its own site, i.e., in the Code of the Enforcement of Privy Penalties and Measures of Freedom, so that the State cannot exempt itself from the provision of a service that has the indispensable duty to provide, under dignified conditions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u154	To present your initiative, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u155	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal there are 49 prison establishments, with an effective occupancy rate of 110 %, and more than 14 000 prisoners. The psychological monitoring of these is carried out by only 30 professionals, in a situation of high precariousness, as a general rule, who receive about €5 gross per hour, under the provision of services and through a subcontracted company for this purpose, with payment of the maturity to 45 days. Deploring psychologists as a crucial role in prison establishments, both in intervention with prisoners, including rehabilitation and social reintegration programmes related to drug addiction and addiction, with consequences for changes in the behaviour of prisoners, as well as in intervention with professionals working there, including preventing stress and burnout situations, the follow-up should be constant and not only punctual, which is not compatible with the current situation marked by a defective presence of psychologists in prisons, especially when it is aggravated by the precariousness of contracts, reduced working hours and incongruent wage values with the level of responsibility, specialization, the need for training and psychosocial risks associated with their work. Without psychologists and without sufficient psychologists it is impossible to improve the rate of recurrence, which is in 50 %, nor to reduce the high suicide rate in prisons, which is of approximately 16 suicides per 10,000 detainees, much higher than the European average. This is why it is essential to reverse the current situation, in fact by placing a commitment to social reintegration and permanent support for prisoners. We therefore propose that the recruitment of psychologists be ensured to prison establishments, as well as to ensure their contractual and wage stability, in order to provide a psychological intervention of continuity, quality and effectiveness that enables prisoners to watch for psychological health and develop a culture of civicism and citizenship, of rehabilitation and rehabilitation, as opposed to a culture of violence and negative socialization, with human and economic costs that are incompatible with Portuguese society.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u156	For an intervention, Mrs Eurídice Pereira, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u157	Mr President, I welcome you, as well as the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The provision of health care is discussed today in the prison system and, for this provision, the labor stability of health professionals who operate in it, including doctors, psychologists and nurses. On this issue it is important to bring to the debate a fundamental aspect which, if I fail, does not allow the correct scrutiny of the three initiatives. I am referring to the entry into force in 2010 of the Code of the Enforcement of Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom, where the medical and medicinal provision of prison services to the imprisoned population has undergone profound changes in its structuring and conceptualization. This Code guarantees the prisoner the right to have access to the National Health Service under conditions identical to those guaranteed to all citizens. With this paradigm change it was clarified that the prisoner is, for all purposes, SNS user. Unfortunately, between 2011 and 2015, nothing advanced in order to implement such an important decision. This dossier is being, like so many others, recovered by the current government. In fact, because of the joint order of the protections of justice and health, a Working Group was created in 2017, which aims to evaluate existing constraints on access of the imprisoned population to the SNS and to present solutions to overcome them, in order to ensure access to primary health care, treatment of infectious diseases, mental health care and oral health care, and, with this stabilization, the stabilization of labor relations. Of course, the provision of health care to this segment of the population presents an increased complexity, since the citizens in prison are subject to safety procedures when travelling abroad, which often causes constraints to clinical observation. It is important to point out that there are already effects of the action of this Working Group, but it is important to speed up, for faster results. Thus, and until the SNS meets the necessary conditions — those that were legislated in 2010 and stagnated between 2011 and 2015 — and it is known that the provision of health care to the imprisoned population cannot be interrupted, it is up to the services of the justice sector to ensure the continuity of such care, in a period that we may consider transitional. In fact, there are competitions for the external recruitment of 12 more doctors and 24 nurses. With the exception of vacancies for psychiatrists, the remaining doctors did not have opponents to the contest, which also reveals the difficulty with which the Directorate-General for Rehabilitation and Prison Services copes to fill out their staff framework in the field of medicine.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u158	I ask you to conclude, Madam Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u159	I am concluding, Mr. President. In view of this whole context, in which the Ministry of Health is making efforts to respond to its obligation, enshrined in the law, it becomes counterproductive to make some of the proposals we are discussing, but it is certain that the path that is being taken is aimed at ensuring the resolution of the underlying concerns of the various initiatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u160	For an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese prison system is faced with serious problems that need to be solved. And they're different-order problems. If it were not for nothing else, the fact that this debate has already been raised deserves a greeting on our part. Unfortunately, the government's policy on the protection of prisoners and the policy on the provision of minimum conditions for prison establishments is summed up in the mere daily reactions to criticism and concerns of prisoners, prison guards and other agents interacting with the Portuguese prison system. in a word: also here we have no government, we have a reaction. Regarding the diplomas under discussion today it is good to remember that the PSD Parliamentary Group, in the face of the worrying reality that the various projects report, has already required the hearing of the Director-General for Reintegration and Prison Services, to clarify all the issues raised by the application of the Prison Guard Corps Working Timetable Regulation, as well as on the health situation in prisons. Legalize without hearing all those in charge of the area is, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously in a hurry. The PSD took good note of the news coming to the public, according to which only in January and February of this year, the first months of application of the new hours of the guards, 239 inmates were missing medical consultations abroad. This situation is aggravated by the lack of health professionals in prisons, which are mostly outsourced by temporary workers who will be failing to pay the services of these professionals. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who in February were released the Report of the Committee on the Prevention of Torture and Badness of the Council of Europe, resulting from a visit to prison establishments by a delegation of the same Commission, in which a number of health deficiencies were noted in prisons. In fact, it is the Committee itself who, in the report which he presented, recommends strengthening staff in this area and also strives for the assurance that there is always someone present in prisons with basic life support training. It's not worth it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they always come with the clumsy language that the blame lies with the previous government. The tape has run out and you've been ruling for three years! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u162	Who said that? It wasn't us!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u163	The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the explanation of the Minister of Justice in this regard was indeed very short and did not offer a long-term vision, which naturally leads to our concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u164	I ask you to conclude, Madam Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u165	I will finish, Mr. President. But let's go straight to the question. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members whether for a prisoner will it really matter that the one providing health care to him is an official of the State or a private company, or what really concerns him and cares if his provider is qualified and the proper treatment? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u166	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This PCP bill and the BE and PAN resolution projects portray one of the most serious and chronic problems of our prison system. The Portuguese prison system has been confronted for many years with problems such as the lack of guards, the increasingly precarious security conditions, the lack of social reintegration, the destruction of the building—with reports that we all know of the presence of cold, dark and wet rats and cells—and also the degradation of the provision of health care. It is about this last point that today's initiatives are concentrated here. The problem is well-identified and is not recent, drags and eternitys for too many years and we have all identified the problem and nobody does anything to solve it. The CDS has repeatedly called attention to the dramatic situation in our prison system, repeatedly warning Mrs. Minister of Health of the question of medication, which is given by guards, as Mr.António Filipe said recently; for the 200 health tests that were not carried out last year because there are simply no guards to lead the prisoners to carry out these tests; and for the social reintegration that is not done, or is done badly, because the average advises that each social reintegration technician should accompany 50 prisoners and is accompanying about 150 to 200 prisoners. So this state of things is known, we all know it and it is dramatic. That is why, recently, we have presented two projects in order to make an annual report with the portrait of the prison system and also a programming law for investment in the building and human resources of prisons. We will wait for the completion of the legislative process. However, when asked about this, she said, invariably, that everything was planned, and she said so to all sides of this Parliament. He says that more than 400 guards, more nurses, more social reintegration technicians will be done, works will be done, a programming law will be made, finally, says that everything is planned, that there is no problem and everything will happen. The problem is we're in 2018 and nothing! We have nothing in the prison system that has happened so far, so that it forces the parties that support the government to present various initiatives in this area. We know that the problem will not be solved overnight, we know that the longer it takes, the more it gets worse, but we also know that the solution cannot be 8 or 80. The problem of precariousness is a serious problem, which has to be fought and to which we are not strangers, but we know that things are not all built in one day and therefore have to be treated with some caution. Clearly, there are exceptional situations that can dictate outsourcing recruitment, and forbid it, as a rule, for us, does not make sense. For us, what makes sense is what they propose about the system being endowed with more means and functioning, tendingly, with their own means. That, for us, makes sense; to prohibit, however, is not, because we think that there are exceptional situations that can dictate this resource.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u168	I ask you to conclude, Madam Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u169	We don't push that problem, we know it exists and it's serious. We are not going to go by him and we will contribute to the government's taking due precautions this time and, at least, the problem does not go down and forever beyond what has already been going on forever. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u170	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u171	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate, from our point of view, is becoming somewhat bizarre. It is that the reaction of the PSD and CDS benches is that the prison system is bad and, when something is proposed to improve it, they say: "No, that's not. He's terrible, but he's fine. Leave him alone. This can't be so, it can't be with these measures! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We have the guards giving the drugs to the inmates. The PSD and CDS say: "Oh, that's terrible! But when a measure is proposed to put an end to this situation, they say: « No, that cannot be the case either». And the PS position, you have to say it, it's no less weird. It is because Mrs Eurídice Pereira says: « But we have a 2010 Code of the Enforcement of Penalties and Privative Measures of Freedom, which is great ». That's what you see, that's what you see! That is, the Code is so good that we watch what we watch in prison services. And they come to tell us: « But no action is necessary because the government will be responsible for doing it». That's what you've seen, that's what you've seen! ... It is with nurses to be hired at 3, 5 € / hour, by companies that do not comply with what they are obliged to do. So when it comes to proposing...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u172	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u173	I shall conclude, Mr President. Everyone recognizes that the prison system is bad and needs to be improved. But when concrete proposals for improvement appear, then they say: "That no longer, we prefer that everything be the same". It's regrettable! It is a debate which is somewhat bizarre, Mr President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u174	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the close of this debate, I would like to stress the convergence of all banks in the report that the situation, as it is, is absolutely unsustainable. But I also want to point out that, with regard to the proposals that we put forward for this situation to change, there is a clear immobilism on the part of the PSD, the CDS, and even the PS itself, on the pretext that we are experiencing a transitional situation. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva said: 'This is 8 or 80! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Now, if you read the resolution of our draft resolution, you will find that at no time you are talking about a tax ban on outsourcing. Therefore, your argument falls to the ground. But I believe that your argument is not exactly what leads you and your parliamentary group to take a stand against it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u176	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u177	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mrs Andreia Neto remembers, very well, that the international analysis of the situation in the prison system is very serious. Only then does it say: "But let us keep the situation as it is, from the point of view of health care". That is to say, we maintain the situation of private companies who have done an absolutely regrettable job in the prison system. Finally — and with this, I conclude, Mr President — you are very right to Mrs Eurídice Pereira when she remembers that prisoners have access, according to the law itself, to the National Health Service, like any other citizen. The problem is that you do not have, Mrs Commissioner — and you know very well. That is exactly why we are presenting this draft resolution. And we are therefore very convinced that the Socialist Party, consistent with the statement made by the honourable Member, will vote in favour of it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u178	Having concluded the joint discussion of draft resolution No 1323 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( BE ) of Bill No 814 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) and draft resolution No 1462 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PAN), we turn to the evaluation of Decree-Law No 15 / 2018, of 7 March, which approves the specific regime for the selection and recruitment of teachers of specialized artistic teaching of music and dance[ parliamentary evaluations n. 58 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ), 60 / XIII ( 3 ). ( BE ), 57 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PSD ) and 56 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) ]. The parliamentary groups I have just mentioned have also submitted requests under the Rules of Procedure for amendments in the speciality to be assessed and voted on by the House in the light of the general assessment. The information I wish to give to the House about these announcements is as follows: after the honourable Members. Members of Parliament shall, in general, put to the vote all the requirements for the examination of the speciality. This will be followed by a vote of the CL immediately because, in the case of a procedural vote, it does not require the prior need for the electronic registration. If, as you all believe, these requests are approved, then a specific final period will be passed at the time of the vote for the examination and vote in the speciality of the amendments which have been tabled in the meantime. I believe that this methodology is entirely in line with the point of view of the parliamentary groups, and that is what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u179	Today, we agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u180	Thank you very much, Mr João Oliveira. I shall therefore begin by giving the floor to Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of the CFP is to greet the teachers present here in the galleries and who hope to get an answer today to resolve their specific problems. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]] The PCP allocated the parliamentary assessment to Decree-Law No. 15 / 2018, which includes several specific subjects of artistic teaching teachers but also general questions concerning teacher competitions. We put all the letters on the table in advance, disseminated, transparent and made every effort to schedule this parliamentary assessment as soon as possible. Today we have an opportunity to solve all these matters, without causing delays at the start of the school year. We all remember that the last teacher contest was the target of an arbitrary decision of the Ministry of Education, which, without any prior notice and changing the practice of a decade, chose not to consider thousands of hours requested by schools in initial placement in internal mobility. As the PCP has noted since then, contradictions and a tremendous indignation of teachers have occurred. The struggle and persistence of teachers brought us to this point of discussion in the Assembly of the Republic. There are several proposals presented by the CFP, because we consider it urgent to restore justice in the question of internal mobility but also because it is necessary to intervene in matters relating to artistic teachers. We therefore want the internal invitation to tender and the subsequent internal mobility invitation to tender to take place in accordance with the general rules of the invitation to tender. Thus, they apply to all career teachers, in addition to those who were damaged in August, strengthening the use of all times, whether complete or incomplete. Moreover, the assumption that we start all the amendments is that we respect the general rules of the invitation to tender and defend the principle of annuality. As for the integration into the career of teaching staff in specialized artistic education, I would like to say that the proposal of the CFP, as regards indexes, is, and has always been, that teachers should receive according to the time of service effectively provided in teaching functions. The reality is that they are workers who perform teaching functions and it is fair to receive them as such. [[PCP applause.]] We also propose measures for consideration of cases that may lead to delays in professionalization and that are not imputable to teachers, as well as the increase in time for professionalization for two years. Still in artistic education, we defend the end of the interview, which, in several cases, is extremely subjective, and we only place as selection criteria professional experience and competence profile. Alternatively, we propose that it may be considered the realization of an artistic evidence of public character, but never with a eliminate character. In case of meeting temporary needs, due to the specificities of the area, we believe that there must be a proof of pedagogical and artistic fitness, non-elimination. In the case of tie, we propose that you not be the principal of the school to decide arbitrarily and we provide for objective decision criteria. We also propose that the teacher may end the academic year even if the teacher who is replacing back, for questions of pedagogical continuity. The proposed replacement for Article 16 ( 10 ). that of the Annex referred to in Article 1 ( 1 ). that of Decree-Law No. 15 / 2018, of 7 March, has the danger, as pointed out by the Block of Left, to make it stop ensuring that teachers stay until the end of the evaluations, which we do not follow. Finally, I wanted to say that we consider it essential that all time of service is accounted for effectively in teaching functions in artistic education, as in all cases, in fact, as well as an approximation to the Statute of the Teaching Career in everything that has to do with entry and career progression. This has been our position over the years: all teachers must be positioned on the step corresponding to the service time effectively provided. We have, once again, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, an opportunity to resolve all these situations today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u182	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to speak in the debate, you now have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: No one as the Government has worked more and better for the existence of this parliamentary assessment. This Parliamentary assessment is not surprising. The Government knew that we would not allow this Decree-Law, which we owe to teachers and teachers who are in the galleries, to attend this debate, not let this Decree-Law pass, because it mixes a series of themes and subjects that cannot be mixed, because it is a fruit salad, by including, in the same Decree-Law, a system of selection and recruitment of teachers of specialized artistic education of the public school and an extraordinary competition for the binding of specialized artistic teaching staff. But so far, everything is fine, we can disagree with the concrete solutions and therefore the Left Block also offers proposals on this: the integration of all teachers in index 167 instead of 126 or 112; the replacement in the course of teachers according to the time of service, immediately, as they enter, and not to the taste of the moods of the government; the inclusion of incomplete hours in the norm-work, which enables them to link, for the future, those who have three years or two renewals; the consideration of the annual time until 31 December. We can discuss all this and, above all, we have proposals. No one can criticize, in fact, the will and the decision of this government to finally create and give the specialized art teachers an opportunity to have access to a career, because they are not the poor parent of the teachers, they are not the poor parent of the public school. The big problem begins when the Ministry of Education decides to use this regime on specialized artistic education and its teachers as a Trojan horse for an anticipated internal contest. And it is in the history of the anticipated internal contest that the history of this parliamentary assessment is told. It is that on 25 August, on the lists of teachers of internal mobility, there were hundreds of teachers—and some of them are here, watching the debate—who were moved to hundreds of miles away from their homes without doing so, because the government changed the rules of the internal mobility competition and excluded the access of teachers most graduates to incomplete hours, but did not tell them that before the competition. And we're talking about tied teachers, top graduates. Thus, in a system that is already unstable, the government managed to destabilize one of the groups that was quieter, one of the groups that was already stabilized. I am not going to talk about the dramas of life that we have heard from these teachers and teachers, I just want to welcome their persistence in the struggle that they have developed and regret the government's fear of not finding a solution to a situation that everyone recognized to be unfair. It was a mistake and, in order to cover this mistake, the government brought here a solution that does not solve, an internal competition consisting of these teachers exchange between themselves the vacancies which should not have been attributed to any of them. The Left Block warned, the government didn't want to listen. What could have been resolved with an administrative solution, as the Left Block said, eight months ago, can only be solved, as the Left Block proposes, with a general internal contest, where complete and incomplete schedules are included and where teachers are placed by graduation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u184	Also for an intervention, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We are here today, in the course of the examination of four requests for a vote by the plenary for a speciality vote, in a situation which is not common in parliamentary terms, just because, firstly, the Government made a mistake in August last year in the contest for internal mobility of teachers; secondly, with this error created injustices to about 1000 teachers, to evaluate the 800 precautionary measures currently in court; and thirdly, in an attitude of arrogance, instead of correcting the error with a just and appropriate solution that minimizes the losses of teachers and the educational community, it decided, incomprehensiblely, to adopt a competition that does not solve the problem that the government itself has created. [[PSD applause.]] This is an indefensible situation in view of the public service values which, unfortunately, highlights an absolutely unacceptable attitude for those who, Minister and Secretary of State, have maximum responsibilities in education in Portugal. The PSD closely followed the situation over these months, listening to people, questioning the government successively, alerting to the need for justice correction. in this course, the PSD was not alone, it was not alone in Parliament and it was not alone in civil society, where other voices stood up crying for correction of the error. Therefore, when, in February of this year, the Government approves a diploma that has not solved the problem of teachers, the so-called 'laws of 25 August', before it consolidates the injustices created in the 2017 competition, when, in respect of that diploma, the President of the Republic assumes to raise doubts about the expectations of teachers in the correction of the problems, in the face of these conditions, the Social Democratic Party can only consistently request parliamentary appreciation of the diploma. Within the framework of Parliament's constitutional powers, it is important to clarify here that what is unforgivable in this process is not the mistake because we all err and a mistake can be an excellent opportunity for improvement. The Secretary of State, which is unforgivable by the Government in this case, is three actions. The first is the attitude of denial of error. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u186	To say that you did not fail because you have complied with the law, forgetting that the law is at the service of people and that when you make choices in your application if you can create injustice, it is not a good leader. Doubt helps humanize action. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u187	The second is the violation of the principle that the State is a good person, an essential principle to confidence in the social contract of a democratic and free society. The Ombudsman's opinion is very clear in considering that the principles of justice and good faith required timely knowledge of all the rules to teachers and that therefore the competition was inappropriate and unfair to some teachers. The violation of this principle had already been made by the Ministry in 2016 with association contracts by failing to honour contracts signed by the State. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Protests and BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] The third and final aspect is the complete insensitivity to people: to teachers — we saw teachers with young children crying because of the situation of relocation created — to families and to the educational community in general. The PSD trusts Parliament to fulfil its function as a safeguard of a state of good, giving the Government a warning and the country a sign of confidence. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u188	Mrs Ilda Araújo New has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The parliamentary assessment of Decree-Law No. 15 / 2018 of 7 March, required by the CDS-PP, is, for us, the corollary of attention calls and attempts to raise awareness with the Ministry of Education, which has so far been fruitless. They were persistently presented by this Parliamentary Group, which follows and justifies itself fully, in our view and not only, since the administrative decision that gave rise to the dispute between the teachers, who have since been called « injured on 25 August », which I am taking advantage of to congratulate. Since the first hour the CDS, in a constructive work, has been looking for a solution. It is matter that, without lukewarmness, we took to the regiment hearings and brought to this plenary. We put the questions in such a way that this ministerial team would use its legal talent and take advantage of the publication of the Decree-Law now in appreciation to correct, in an appropriate, just and clearly necessary way, an unexpected and unfortunate administrative decision that indeed caused enormous surprise and well founded dismay and revolt. It is important to remember that the teachers presented the contest expressing their preferences and, of course, observed the placement rules used for more than 11 years to this part. This procedure, because consecutively adopted in all those years, created in the candidates the legitimate conviction that the placements resulting from the internal mobility contest would be carried out in accordance with the usual practice. However, without any clarification or prior notice directed to the manifestations of preferences, the criterion has changed. The rules changed unexpectedly, since there was no legislative amendment that legitimized or justified this new action. It is clear that the legitimate expectations of candidates have been violated and that the principle of trust that this unexplained procedure has taken place is undeniable. This Decree-Law, as enacted by Mr. President of the Republic, although with the reservations of all known, will continue without fulfilling the design of the competition, i.e. it will not allow teachers to approach their residence and their family. Allow me a parenthesis to stress that it is not residual, contrary to what the Secretary of State said, the number of teachers affected in the internal mobility contest. They are known and are confirmed at least 799 hierarchical resources resulting from that competition. Four times as many as 200 have been mentioned recently. Continuing, the Decree-Law defines that candidates for internal mobility will be career teachers who oppose the internal competition, i.e. teachers who do not intend to maintain the multi-annuality of the placement obtained in the last competition. thus, the diploma grants teachers placed in the 2017 competition, the ability to maintain the placement obtained. This means that the vacancies filled by these teachers will no longer be considered as needs, so they will not be taken to the competition. Regarding the satisfaction of teachers' expectations in correcting problems related to their placement for the current school year, this Decree-Law is useless because it is ineffective. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Indeed, it is by no means a solution to the situations generated. Its scope, as is evident, is limited to the repetition and consolidation of the effects of the administrative decision, only and only. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the CDS we always wanted to be on the side of the solution. We want to contribute to the end of this injustice and to ensure the stable and dignified functioning of the public school. We do not want them to confuse us or compare us with a Ministry that seems to have the orientation to systematically harm the teaching class. Teachers feel disappointed and are right, nothing justifies the procedure adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u190	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u191	It will be up to this Parliament to make a difference and this is the right time. It is a unique opportunity for parliamentary groups to quickly resolve a relevant matter and correct an injustice and an ineptity that almost seems to be an evil. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u192	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Some teachers felt damaged by internal mobility in 2017. Is that 200? Will it be 300? Even if they were only 50, even if they were only 20, even if they were only one, it was necessary to resolve this situation. The government wanted to resolve this situation, we wanted to solve this situation and, without insisting again on the debate of each one's reasons, that is what this diploma was doing. This issue, with an early competition to which all those who wanted it to try to improve their placement, was an answer to this problem. What is now being proposed is completely different. What is proposed is to disappoint those who now expect to have stability in their placement for at least four years. Because of a dissatisfaction, even fair, of 200, breaking multi-annuality and stabilising more than 14 000 that are in the QZP (pedagogical zone frames) and more than 3000 that are hired, in addition to harming so many thousands of teachers, it will also harm schools, it will harm students, it will transmit instability to the pedagogical teams, it will stabilize the dynamics of schools, it will stabilize the strategic projects. Is only the PS concerned about this issue? Does anyone else in this House care about this issue? It's very strange! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Teachers know that there was a problem to solve and that the government has found a balanced solution to solve this difficulty. What these parliamentary assessments are now doing is preventing this balanced solution. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u194	In concrete terms, there are several proposals that we cannot follow. There are proposals that violate the principle of equality, because they introduce approaches to the general regime with different rules for certain groups of teachers in matters as decisive as professionalization. There are proposals to decharacterize the norm-work, an essential tool to combat precariousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u195	Discharacterize? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u196	...because now it is proposed that the vacancies opened by the norm-work be not for those who were at that time, in that place and who should be entitled to those vacancies. Now, you want me not to. They are therefore fighting the fight against precariousness when they should protect the fight against precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is another mechanism in combating precariousness. Today, a number of complete and successive annual contracts indicate a permanent need and lead to the opening of a tie gap. Now, it is intended that a contract starting on 31 December will be counted as an annual contract. This is to derail the fight against precariousness, and that we cannot admit! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, there have never been so many teachers in schools, so concrete and so relevant steps have never been taken in the fight against precariousness and much has been done to improve the teaching condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u197	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u198	I'm done now, Mr. President. We're looking for a stronger public school, which implies more investment in teachers, which is what we're doing. We need to continue to improve the teaching condition, but this is not being done by attacking the principle of equality, this is not being done by attacking the mechanisms of equity, it is not weakening the mechanisms of combating precariousness. Mr President, requests have been made to vote today on the amendments, and we say that, if it is to stabilize the opening of the school year, then the voting is done today because at least we do not add any more damage to the damage that is already being done, but we do not follow these proposals, because these proposals are to bring down a balanced solution,... [[Protests by the Member of the BE Joana Mortágua and the Member of the CDS-PP Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u199	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u200	... these proposals are a very disrespect, many, many thousands, these proposals are a disrespect to the pedagogical projects of schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u201	The Government has, however, signed up to intervene on this point, so it has the floor of Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Education, Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u202	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: The diploma that brings us here today, for the first time, establishes a system for selecting and recruiting teachers from specialized music and dance teaching and guarantees the extraordinary linkage of these teachers already in the coming academic year, as well as professionals from the audiovisual technical components. It is therefore a diploma that puts an end to discrimination against these teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u204	This diploma also includes the completion of the anticipated internal invitation to tender for teachers who wish to change their placement in the institution of internal mobility. It is a just, rigorous solution that responds to the exact need of those who want to change their position, without forcing those who do not intend to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u205	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u206	It is a solution that does not harm or penalize the many and many teachers who want to maintain their placement for four years. I would like to make it clear that, of course, as we have done so far, we will always proceed with no respect for what this House has decided, but the circumstances and timetable of the decisions which the honourable Members have taken. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to be clear to all. However, I wanted to say that there is a reason for the internal competition and internal mobility to occur from four to four years in accordance with the law: it is because at least 14 000 teachers of the pedagogical frameworks are moving, and this naturally questions, by its size, the stability of schools, educational projects and the placement of these teachers themselves. in this case, the solution resulting from the possible approval of the proposed amendments calls into question the placement of more than 13 000 teachers, on behalf of the alleged violation of a minority, especially if we take into account that the Decree-Law provided for a solution to teachers injured by placement — if there were many, there would be many hours; if there were few, there would be few hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u207	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u208	It is a just, proportionate and appropriate solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Furthermore, the approval of these amendments at this time, when the notice of the invitation to tender should be ready to be published, calls into question the conduct of the competitions and the placement of teachers, taking into account the difficult practice of the schedule imposed. The government will comply with the law, but the difficulties generated by this timetable are hardly predictable and the problems that may arise will be entirely due to the choice taken here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u209	Sad speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u210	For a second intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u211	Mr President, Madam Under-Secretary of State and Education and Mr Porfirio Silva: The postponement of a necessary solution, which a majority of Members and Members of this House consider fair and that no one can deny that it is due to those teachers and those teachers, because no one can deny that, when they have competed, they have done so on the basis of rules that have been changed, which has not been told them, and that this has resulted in a revolution in their lives that they could not foresee or expect...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u212	They were rules that already existed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u213	As I was saying, the postponement of a solution due to these teachers and these teachers has only made this solution more difficult, more complex and more painful as time passes and we do not ignore that, at this moment, the solution is painful. Does it mean breaking multi-annuality? Yes, it means restarting multi-annuality as it should have started before the error, it means interrupting an error. That means, in the name of the principles of equality and equity that Mr Porfirio Silva spoke about. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] It was a mistake! Could this error have had an administrative solution eight months ago, as the Left Block suggested to the Government? I could! Did this administrative solution mean breaking multi-annuality or moving in all teachers? Don't! The government didn't want the administrative solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u214	Putting the contest down was never a solution to anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u215	Now, even with imagination, could I have a better solution than getting those teachers to exchange between themselves the vacancies that none of them want and that, as a whole, nobody wants them? I could! [[PS MP Sandra Pontedeira's protests.]] But the government insisted on a solution that knew it had neither the support of the teachers nor the support of the majority of the Members of this House. So I repeat, however painful this solution is, it is more fair and is due solely to the arrogance of the government, which did not want to find another solution that would not force us to get here. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, it is up to the Government to overcome this arrogance to ensure that this competition runs well and fairly and that we will have all the teachers and all the teachers placed at the beginning of the academic year in accordance with the rules under which they have always been placed and in accordance with their expectations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u216	Mr Ana Mesquita of the CFP now has the floor for an intervention. [[Pause.]] Mrs Ana Mesquita doesn't want to use the word?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u217	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u218	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u219	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita will take the floor to make the last statement and close this debate because it was the CFP that scheduled it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u220	Mr President, the Bureau has a criterion which will go on to explain: when it comes to a legislative initiative of the authorship of one or more parliamentary groups, the Bureau follows the procedure which is given by the reverse order of presenting the initiatives, with time available at the final stage of the debate. It happens that, in a parliamentary debate, the decree-law of the authorship of the Government is also under consideration and the Government is also an agent of its own legislative act. Consequently, with this interpretation of the Bureau, which does not have any statutory provision to the contrary, the Bureau will give the floor to Mrs Ana Mesquita, who will use it, if you understand. If you do not understand this, the Bureau shall give the floor to the Government, which has also asked for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u221	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u222	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u223	Mr President, this has been resolved for a long time at the Leaders Conference. If Mr. President keeps that decision, I'll take it from her to the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u224	Please appeal, Member of the Commission. I'll keep the decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u225	I consider the appeal put forward, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u226	Mr João Oliveira challenges the Bureau's decision to, in a parliamentary procedure, allow the Government, with time available, to use the floor at the last moment, to provide the final explanations on the implications of parliamentary assessment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u227	It was not the government that appointed the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u228	Mrs. Members, let us vote on the appeal put forward by Mr João Oliveira. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS and with votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u229	It seems impossible!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u230	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u231	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u232	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u233	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u234	For an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u235	In what way, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u236	On the conduct of the work and the outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u237	Mr President, the result of the vote is an expression of the parliamentary will and the parliamentary will has just been expressed. On the progress of the work in relation to the parliamentary will, there is no reason for an appeal to the Bureau. Consequently, Mr President, for this purpose I am not giving you the floor. If you want to clarify your vote, that is something else, but it does not give you the right to vote. Mr President, please clarify your request.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u238	Mr President, when I asked the Bureau to make an inquiry on the outcome of the vote, it was only to ask Mr President to be careful to say that I personally voted in favour of...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u239	And he voted very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u240	... as well as other benches, the appeal of the Portuguese Communist Party, which Mr. President did not. I would ask you to correct this information now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u241	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u242	Mr President, it is to inform that I also voted in favour of the appeal put forward by Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u243	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Sérgio Azevedo, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u244	Mr President, although we have not raised them in the vote, Mr Miguel Morgado and I also voted in favour of the challenge of the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u245	Your position is registered, sir. Mr Sérgio Azevedo and Mr Miguel Morgado. Mrs. Members, the appeal submitted by Mr João Oliveira has been rejected. We will therefore continue our work, and I will therefore once again give the floor to Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP for a second intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u246	Mr President, it is worth fighting — that is what we have to say, with all clarity, with all firmness, and it is again to the teachers that we address these words, with all strength and with all dedication. With all our efforts, we have done everything to ensure that this situation is resolved today. More: Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Education and Mr. Porfirio Silva, if there are any delays, this must be charged to the Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u247	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u248	... because they have not heard the teachers, because they have not listened to their representative structures, because they have not heard all the critical voices that have risen, especially those of the CFP, because they have not heard all those who have warned of the contradictions that are here on the table and because, again, the government has delayed the publication of the Decree-Law — and it is not hidden saying that it was a matter of collective negotiation, because it was nothing that happened, they were impotable delays also to the government! I would also like to say to Mr Porfirio Silva that, having had an agenda of parliamentary opinion that was anticipated at the initiative of the CFP, that everything has done so that it is as soon as possible, that everything has been put on the table so that there is no delay, so that everyone would know all the proposals in a transparent way, so that everyone could know the meanings of the vote they were going to adopt, the solution proposed by the CFP is precisely to avoid any kind of delay. So what we say is that everything we have done and that we have a calm conscience, because we take our role in defending the rights of teachers and we will continue to do so, of course, by putting all the letters on the table transparently. I also wanted to say that the proposal of the PCP places on the table the solutions to the problems of artistic teachers, for teachers affected by internal mobility. It remains to be known what the intention and will of the Government to resolve is in fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u249	And they defend the 13 000 teachers affected? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u250	on our part, we believe that our role is being fulfilled and we will continue in the struggle to give voice to the problems of these teachers, now and always. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u251	I now give the floor to Mrs. Under-Secretary of State and Education, Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u252	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To know whether the measure adopted is an amendment to the rules is not, except due respect, to Mrs Joana Mortagua, because what we need to know is what is in the Decree-Law and whether the Decree-Law has been complied with—and has so far been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u255	On the other hand, it was not a mistake, it was a fair, fair and balanced decision, which imposes that those who are linked—and, on our account, 3500 teachers were linked—...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u256	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u257	...is also meeting a full schedule for which you have been hired... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and have no expectation, much less legitimate, of being placed in an incomplete time. Injustice, disproportionate and unbalanced is to harm schools, students and 13 000 teachers in the pedagogical area frameworks and more than thousands of contractors on behalf of a minority,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u258	...not because it's a minority, because one already counts, but because the government already had a solution for that minority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Ana Mesquita said that the Members heard the hundreds that spoke. Because the government has heard the thousands who are in schools doing their job... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u259	Are you disauthorizing the unions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u260	... and that they have brought to the Government their desire not to see the stability and pluriannuality to which they are entitled being interrupted! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u261	It's a lack of seriousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u262	Lack of seriousness? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u263	The Bureau was informed, and the PCP bench thus confirms, that the PCP Parliamentary Group has a 1 minute bid by the Greens Ecological Party. Therefore, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Under-Secretary of State and Education: The Government has said it has heard the thousands who are in schools. So we ask: what is the voice of the unions but that of the thousands of workers who are in schools...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u265	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u266	... and what have they said against this solution proposed by the Government? Oh, my God! They pronounced against it! The question is what the Secretary of State will tell people. Compare, talk to them, talk to the people who are in the galleries watching the debate! Give an answer, Secretary of State! What we are saying here is that today, in Parliament, we have all the tools to solve this issue so that it will be treated justly. Now they cannot even think of trying to assign the responsibility of any kind of delay to the Assembly of the Republic. [[PS protests.]] The government is responsible for the options it has taken in this matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u267	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u268	...and for the failure not to correct the one who was your posture. That's the point! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u269	Mrs. Members, as recently announced by the Bureau, will now vote on the requests submitted by the PCP, BE, PSD and CDS-PP, which have as their object, I would like to remind you again, in the speciality, in plenary, of the proposals which have been submitted in the meantime and which may, eventually, still be presented during the discussion on the speciality and, if some of them are approved, also the global final vote which has been held in the meantime. It is therefore this set of requirements with this object that I have just stated, requirements submitted by the PCP, BE, PSD and CDS-PP, in purpose convergence, that we will vote. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] So when we start the period of statutory votes, and at the final stage of those votes, we will have a supplementary script, which will be included in the proposed amendments, for a special vote, of the Decree-Law which has just been approved. We can therefore move to the sixth point of our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of the projects of lein. 580 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Limits the period of loyalty in contracts for the provision of electronic communications services ( The Greens ), 815 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of customers of electronic communications services in loyalty contracts ( tenth amendment to the Electronic Communications Act) ( BE) and 817 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Decreases the maximum period of loyalty in the context of electronic communications and introduces new mandatory elements to the contract ( NAP ), together with draft resolution No 1464 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the measures necessary to implement the simplified information sheet in electronic communications contracts ( PS ) and generally with draft law No 818 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Electronic Communications Act ( PSD ). Let us begin by giving the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia to present the Greens' legislative initiative. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today bring to the Assembly of the Republic a matter which, as everyone will recognize, has conditioned the freedom of consumers and has led to consumers feeling deeply damaged, and rightly so. This is a matter to which the law of 2016, produced here in the Assembly of the Republic, did not give a complete response nor came to a resolution, because the operators finally circumvented the spirit of the law. The subject matter is, in particular, the period of loyalty in contracts for the provision of communications services. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the electronic communications sector is one of the biggest conflicts between consumers and service providers. Consumers submit recurrent complaints not only regarding the quality failures of the service provided, but also the abuse of contractual matters by operators. One of the significant foci of conflict is the period of loyalty understood as the one in which the consumer undertakes not to cancel the contract and not to change the contractual conditions. It occurs that the loyalty periods have a very long duration of 24 months, two years, which requires the consumer, if he intends to change the service provider because he is not satisfied with the service, for example his current operator, or because they are guaranteed more appropriate conditions for his interests by another operator, to have to pay a significant amount that corresponds, at least, to the value of all the benefits that he would have to pay until the end of the loyalty period. It is true that, with the last amendment to Law No 5 / 2004, made through Law No 15 / 2016, an important step has been taken, determining that in addition to 24 months'loyalty, companies should offer all users the possibility to conclude contracts without any type of loyalty as well as contracts with 6 or 12 months' loyalty period. However, in practice, what has been found is that operators greatly enhance the service in the case of the user to opt for a shorter loyalty period, involving charges that lead users to end up having no other sustainable option that is not even to give in to a two-year loyalty period. This means that the objective that the law sought to ensure is completely overturned. Suppliers should adhere to their customers for the good services they provide and for the appropriate tariffs they present and not for the possibility of unconditionally withholding them for two years. Within two years, much can change in the life of a person, a family and also in the market itself. It is not uncommon for service prices to fall significantly during a two-year period of loyalty and for the consumer to have to subject themselves to tariffs that are already fully adjusted and exceeded only because they are faithful. in this sense, what the Greens come to propose to the Assembly of the Republic is that the maximum loyalty periods are six months in the new contracts. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u271	It is now Mr Paulino Ascension's turn to present the legislative initiative of the Left Block. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This aspect of loyalty in the telecommunications sector is very fertile in consumer complaints, as has been reported by the Consumer Defense, and also in complaints that all parliamentary groups often receive — complaints of abusive behaviour by operators and complaints by aggressive consumer approaches. Our proposal foresees the reduction of the loyalty period, greater clarity in the factors justifying this loyalty and quantifying the value of the costs of this loyalty. These factors are of two orders: either the initial installation costs or the cost of equipment whose property passes to the customer. This value must be presented clearly, with certain and simple accounts so that all consumers can understand how much the cost of the equipment is, how much the cost of the installation, how much this will translate into the monthly that the consumer will bear and, by contrast, how much the amount of compensation to pay to the operator when the customer wants to break this contract, to break the loyalty. This must be clearly defined at the time when the bond is assumed. The existence of loyalty periods does not occur in other activities which are also open to competition, in particular the electricity and gas sectors. In these sectors, we do not see operators complaining about this as a factor that limits their ability to operate on the market. There are objections that have been raised by operators, in particular that this is an extemporaneous initiative. Well, we agree, for operators it will always be extemporaneous to strengthen consumer protection and guarantee mechanisms. Operators also claim that loyalty is not such a significant obstacle to the change of operator. Well, if not, why do they manifest such opposition? Oh, my God! Another aspect we hope that there will be an opportunity to be introduced into the specialty is greater security in the contract for the bonds that are contracted through the telephone, so that there will be a period of reflection in each circumstance and that this period will either go to or to the presentation of the first invoice or even to the presentation of a contract to be signed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u273	To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 2011 amendments to the Electronic Communications Act imposed a maximum limit of 24 months for the duration of contracts relating to electronic communications services and aimed to promote greater contractual and pre-contractual information on transparency in the period of loyalty of users to telecommunications companies and greater weighting in the calculation of charges charged in cases of early termination. However, the spirit of the law is being surrounded and its application is not favouring Portuguese consumers, as it would be expected. In Portugal people have a huge barrier to the change of operator or service. The loyalty clauses make the rate of change in our country manifestly lower than the European average, a reality created by the disproportionate penalties imposed by the operators to whom the contract is intended to terminate before the end of the loyalty period. On the other hand, the prices of contracts which do not have loyalty are twice as many as those which have loyalty. Furthermore, contrary to the law, Portuguese consumers do not have access to the information clarified by operators who distort the spirit of the law, hiding the offers that represent alternatives to the 24-month loyalty option. In Portugal we have a problem related to the ability that operators have revealed to circumvent the law and create obstacles to the freedom of choice of customers. It is necessary to regulate the sector and review the law in order to strengthen consumer rights. The initiative presented here today by the NAP aims to reduce the maximum loyalty period for six months and impose the mandatory information on installation costs, as well as the forecast of monthly maintenance charges, but above all aims to reconcile the need for Portuguese to have access to the best services and innovation in this sector, safeguarding their freedom of choice, also defending the interests of operators. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u275	To present the legislative initiative of the PS, Mr Hugo Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Electronic Communications Act was amended less than two years ago. at that time, it was clear that it was essential to make changes that would protect consumers. Unfortunately, despite the changes made, the claims persisted and even intensified in matters related to the implementation of the Act, revealing some fragility in the effectiveness of the changes made. It was with this framework that, last month, the PS Parliamentary Group decided to initiate a process for assessing the application of the Law, so as to understand whether the amendments made were sufficient and met consumer protection. To this end, several hearings were held with some entities, since APRITEL ( Association of Electronic Communications Operators ), DECO ( Portuguese Consumer Defense Association) or ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), in order to ascertain the necessary depth of this whole reality. This process is currently under way, but it is already possible to conclude that there is much work to do, involving the main players in the sector, including ANACOM, in order to ensure what seems absolutely essential to us, that is, more quality in the services provided, a better balance in the offer versus price for the consumer and more transparency in communication with customers. We are aware of the complexity of what is at stake, but we must not fail to point out that this debate is timely and indispensable, that the proposals put forward by the various parties deserve to be properly balanced, and that we should not miss the opportunity of a broad consensus around a reflection on the emergence of a law more appropriate to the interests of consumers and the market. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS has been a pioneer in launching this debate and will not run away from the essential issues. at this stage, we present this draft resolution, which recommends to the Government that it adopt the measures necessary to implement a simplified information sheet in electronic communications contracts to end up once and for all with those extensive contracts and small letters in which so many Portuguese and Portuguese have already been damaged. Solving this problem is the first step in promoting transparency and consumer confidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u278	However, we know that it is not yet enough. There are more questions for reflection, in which, of course, loyalty contracts are also included. In fact, contracts for the loyalty of electronic communications are those matters in which most Portuguese probably have repairs to be made. It is undeniable that there is still a high degree of conflict between operators and consumers, to which none of us in this Chamber may remain indifferent. The quality of the service provided, or sometimes the lack of it, and the differences with regard to loyalty contracts are matters on which the legislative power must take a close look. Consumer vulnerability relations vis-à-vis operators are clear. That is why, in this matter, the priority of the Socialist Party — we have already said it, and we have said it again — will always be to strengthen consumer protection. Obviously, in terms of ideal, we all agree that the deadline for loyalty should be reduced and, as a result, the costs of contracts should also be lower. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this discussion today can represent the starting point that will enable us to find the right balance between the costs charged and the quality of the service provided. However, it does not seem appropriate that any changes to the communications law will compromise investments in the networks or services offered, and may thus prejudice the availability of new services, innovations and technologies. This is the challenge to which the Assembly of the Republic must respond, without jeopardising the functioning of the market and, above all, without risking any increase in costs or a reduction in the quality of the services provided. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u279	For an intervention, Mr Joel Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are returning today to discuss the Electronic Communications Act, which is present on a daily basis for all Portuguese. I recall that electronic communications are one of the types of essential public services provided for in the law. It is therefore important to clarify some concepts and draftings which, in our view, have not been sufficiently clear in recent legislative amendments to the Electronic Communications Act. They continue to provoke many complaints and operators contradict the spirit of the law. It is the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party that the use of various designations should be avoided throughout the course of the diploma, generating confusion in the recipients and their applicators, the result of various legislative techniques adopted throughout the many amendments that the diploma has already known, as well as the uniformization of the legal regime so that all consumers, or not, have the same rights. It is therefore considered that a single designation should be adopted throughout the legal diploma and uniformise the legal regime. We also understand that some aspects of consumer protection should be changed by correcting existing differences. Thus, undertakings offering public telecommunications networks or publicly accessible electronic communications services are obliged to make available, to whom it is intended to subscribe a service provision contract provided by them, appropriate, transparent, comparable and updated information on the usual terms and conditions for access to the use of services provided to end-users and users, detailing the prices and other charges and, where applicable, those relating to termination of contracts. The possible period of loyalty or relidelation, whose existence depends on the allocation of any advantage to the user, expressly identified and quantified, is only possible if the user gives his express agreement. In the end of the period of loyalty and in the absence of agreement on the establishment of a new period of loyalty, the value to be fixed as a counterpart for the provision of services may not exceed the prices which were to be applied on that date. Where, on its own initiative, the undertaking amends any of the contractual conditions, it shall communicate in writing to the users the proposed amendment, in an appropriate manner, while at the same time informing the users of their right to terminate the contract without any charge in the event of non-acceptance of the new conditions. Of course, the PSD will be available to continue to contribute to the improvement of the law in committee. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u281	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are making 14 amendments to the telecommunications law in 14 years and there was even an amendment that happened two months ago since the previous one was made. It is a pity, though little, that the PAN and the Greens Ecological Party, which are part of the Committee on Economic Affairs, have not participated in the profound changes we made to this Law a year ago. Of course you have some excuse, but not all. What the Left Block wrote in its bill is that it is surprising: « By imposing minimum and excessive contractual periods of 24 months». Mr Paulino Ascenção, the Left Block has made proposals which have been piped and are repeating them now! But do you know what the current law says, sir? The current law states: « Companies providing publicly accessible electronic communications services shall offer all users the possibility of entering into contracts without any type of loyalty as well as contracts with 6 and 12 months of loyalty period ». Do you know what the minimum period of loyalty is? Zero months!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u283	So what?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u284	Question: What is the intention of the amendment of the law? More: they should realize that the amendment itself of the law provides that contracts are effective only after the document is written and signed. It doesn't serve mere communication. Consumer rights have therefore been strengthened. It is exactly the loyalty period that guarantees lower prices and access to better technology — the maturation period of this technology that will benefit consumers. It is the absence of a loyalty period that does not help neither technology nor better customer information. It is clear that we have a price difference here, but none of the proposals solve this problem. It is clear that we need more scrutiny and perhaps more control of regulators, but none of the proposals seem to reinforce these means.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u285	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u286	It happens that there are successive changes to the law that create mechanisms and fertile ground for misinformation in a sector where asymmetry of information is very large between those who provide the service and those who acquire it. That is why the CDS hoped that there would be some responsibility for Parliament not to make changes in such a sensitive and complex matter almost year after year. Even because a European package is going to come out in June which touches deeply on consumer law, operators' law, quality and service delivery and which comes to normalize and create consumer protection, including doing what PSD proposes. The PSD proposes 27 amendments and in 21 of them only adds the word « user ». That's all. Now, the European Union has exactly solved this problem, presenting a package that will come out in June. So it seems to me that the parliamentary groups are reading with a little more attention the law we have approved, which is very in favour of the consumer and which solves many of these problems, or then that they take advantage of the opportunity to look carefully at what the regulator says.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u287	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u288	And the only amendment that we should be doing is that which led to the presentation of two petitions in Parliament and which last week had an action by the regulator, which has to do with wp billing. On this issue, no parliamentary group had initiative and we had hope—and we had combined—that was the subject we should be dealing with.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u289	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u290	I will finish, Mr. President. The parliamentary groups wanted to come only to ride news, so they were able to bring more noise, more confusion, even more protection for consumers and favouring operators, who in this matter have fertile ground. The more legislation, the more changes, the more consumers are protected. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u291	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is at stake is consumer rights. The CFP has denounced the behaviour of operators that compromise consumer rights in choosing the operator that best serves their needs and their financial availability. In fact, the loyalty periods go far beyond the depreciation of the equipment or the investment that the operator has made to provide the service. in this sense, the CFP has already warned in 2015 that excessive loyalty periods, such as those that are practiced today, are clearly a mechanism for the arrest of customers to an operator. We have even introduced a bill aimed at protecting consumers, setting limits on the cost of resolving contracts during the loyalty period. In fact, we should reflect on whether the current law serves the protection of consumers. And it's no use, because the operators found ways to circumvent the law. The law actually provides for contracts with loyalty periods of less than two years. However, operators require consumers to pay such high amounts that they unduly penalise consumers. Another problem is the fact that periods of loyalty, in addition to excessive periods, are easily renewed without consumers being aware or aware of this. Therefore, operators can renew loyaltys through offers, promotions, small tariff changes or other handling already at the end of the loyalty period. from here the consumer also needs to have the right to be informed about the date of the end of the period of loyalty, as well as the value to be paid in the event of an early resolution. With such long periods of loyalty and during which the lives of consumers and technological changes undergo significant changes, the need for loyalty periods is justified to be really reduced. The CFP considers that the loyalty period should not go beyond sufficient for the depreciation of the equipment and the investment that the operator has made. Consumer protection, in the case of contracts concluded with operators, is currently unequal and marked by disproportionate penalties, but quite advantageous and beneficial to operators. The problems surrounding contractual relations with electronic communications operators are complex and not always easily resolved. The State resigns itself from its regulatory function, which leaves the population exposed to market gambling. The reality has shown that regulatory entities generally act according to the logic of liberalisation, hiding themselves in an autonomy resulting from the lack of democratic control of their performance to impose decisions generally favourable, in this case to operators, but harmful to populations. Therefore, a change in this relationship of forces between consumers and operators is not disconnected from the policy options that are taken. in this sense, the CFP will continue to intervene in defending the interests and protection of consumers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u293	For a second speech, Mr Joel Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Most of the proposals put forward in this debate on telecommunications affect almost exclusively the loyalty period, but for us this is not the main issue. The law is clear and we have only tried to correct some aspects of these proposals that we have tabled, because the loyalty period has to be in line with the value that operators have to give to consumers. If we reduce the loyalty period, it will result in higher costs and prices for consumers, and that is not what we want. We want the sector to be competitive and that the consumer knows that, by accepting the loyalty period, it will have an advantage and, of course, it will have the best price. Reduce to 6 or 12 months will result in an increase in price. Just look at what has happened in all the countries of the European Union, in which the result has been an increase in prices. You have proposed only one novelty with regard to the law, because everything else the law already provides and is clear. In fact, as has been said, they just bring noise to the discussion, because everything is already provided for in the law. What matters is to clarify some details. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u295	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is clear, once again, that for the CDS and PSD the protection of consumers and the protection of workers are an obstacle to the economy. In your understanding, the economy serves only the profits of shareholders and large companies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u297	You want to increase prices!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u298	Now, it is a fact that this is a complex matter, that reality is dynamic and that operators are very creative in finding new ways to achieve their purposes, and that is what justifies the frequency of changes to the law to reintroduce justice. It is obvious that there are specific and generic costs in a contract, and therefore there is a need for a concept, which is the « regular service provision ». And the cost of regular service provision should be identical, regardless of whether or not there is loyalty, regardless of the loyalty period. These specific costs, which justify loyalty, must be discriminated against and, being fully amortised, there is no justification for them to continue to be charged. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we do not understand, we do not accept that it is a condition that there are investments and that there is innovation in the existence of contracts with loyalty periods, because in other activities there is no loyalty, consumers are not bound and there is no innovation and there is no dynamism in these other activities. Consumer protection is fundamental. The transparency, certainty and safety of consumers creates a relationship, as has been recognized, which is very asymmetrical that justifies that the law is also rigorous and rigorous. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u299	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the interventions here have made very clear the positions of the various parliamentary groups, and the PSD and the CDS clearly took the party of the operators and do not want to know about consumer rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u301	Exactly! That's what's at stake! [[It's nothing like that!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u302	And that was more than clear. The PSD says that the question of the loyalty period, which is a question that massacres consumers, is not a major issue and the CDS — look at it! — he is very concerned that we are often changing the law. Mr. Hélder Amaral, I have no problem altering a law 100 times if necessary, but our obligation, as legislators, is to make the laws, we will be careful...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u303	And be competent and not fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u304	...which results from law enforcement and we will make adjustments in the law in order to protect what we want to protect. It is clear that if there is a clear problem, if operators have completely overturned the spirit of the law regarding the loyalty period and the costs of it, it is clear that the Assembly of the Republic cannot close its eyes and must adjust the law in order to protect the interests of consumers. And, Mr President of the Socialist Party, there is no problem with the commitment to investment, because what we propose clearly covers the costs that the supplier has with the installation of the service. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u305	Mrs. Members, having concluded this debate, a point to which no time has been allocated is followed, which is on motion for a resolution No 66/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part, signed in Munich on 18 February 2017. Let us therefore prepare ourselves for the period of parliamentary voting. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. In the meantime, I am speaking to Secretary Pedro Alves to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u306	Mr. President and Mr. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted, Bill No 122 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the status of judicial judges.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u307	Mrs. Members, the electronic picture records 197 presences to which 14 are added, PSD Deputies Cristo Norte, Joel Sá, Pedro Pinto, Rui Cruz and Teresa Morais, PS Deputies Catarina Marcelino, Ivan Gonçalves, João Galamba, Luís Testa, Porfirio Silva and Sérgio Sousa Pinto, BE José Soeiro, and CDS-PP Deputies Assumption Cristas and Telmo Correia, perfezing 211 deputies, so we have quorum to proceed to vote. We shall begin our votes with vote No 508 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Victor Ribeiro, presented by the CDS-PP and subscribed by a PSD Member, who will be read.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u308	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is as follows: « He died last March 24th Victor Manuel Tavares Ribeiro, 77 years old. Natural Lisbon, spent part of his childhood and adolescence in the old Belgian Congo, having returned years later. On his return to Portugal, he attended the Military Academy and the Faculty of Sciences of the University of Lisbon, enlisting, on the occasion of the fulfilment of the compulsory military service in the Army, where he completed the course at the Command Instruction Center. Ensign of 2. the Company carries out commissions in Angola and Mozambique, giving evidence of high competence and outstanding performance, which has been worth promoting to the lieutenant by distinction and various decorations, such as that of the War Cross and a medal of military value. After that, Victor Ribeiro is demobilized and entered the TAP as a pilot. The passage into civil life did not prevent him from wanting to do his duty, in defense of freedom, by founding, at the time of the hot summer of 1975, with other demobilized Commands, the Association of Commands, which would play an indispensable role in civil democratic resistance in the last months of the Prec and on November 25, in conjunction with the democratic sectors of the Armed Forces. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic regrets the death of the prestigious Commander and the recognized military, Victor Ribeiro; address his family, friends, the Commands Regiment and the Association of Commands, the most felt condolences; and recalls his example of service to Portugal and his deep appreciation for democracy and freedom. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u309	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention of PS MP Wanda Guimarães.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, vote No 513 / XIII ( 3 ) will now be read. ( a ) — Despite the death of José Lima Monteiro Andrade, presented by the CDS-PP. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs. Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u310	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « José Joaquim Lima Monteiro de Andrade died last April 3th victim of prolonged disease. Born in the Santarém Valley in 1948, he graduated from Engineering by the Higher Institute of Agronomy and went to agriculture that dedicated himself to a life, which still stand out associative and political activities. In addition to teaching at the Santarém Agrarian High School, he was president of the Confederation of Portuguese Farmers and founded the National Centre for Agricultural Exhibitions and Markets in Santarém, having been his first president. He was a member of the Assembly of the Republic between 1976 and 1980 and was elected a councilman in the City Hall of Santarém in 2001 by the Social Democratic Party, which he performed with indelible commitment and lucidity. Engineer José Andrade was a man of convictions, connected to the earth, committed to the defense of the rural world and Portuguese agriculture. He left us a great rattage, a great Portuguese. It is therefore with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, marks its death, conveying to its family and friends the most significant grief. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u311	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[The vote was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we take a minute's silence, there are doubts whether the following vote, presented by the PS, of condemnation and regret over the Israeli army's violence against the March of the Return, should be included in this minute's silence. I ask the author of the initiative, the PS, to clarify the Bureau. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u312	Mr President, it makes no sense to include that vote in the minute of silence. In view of the broader scope of the discussion and the subsequent votes, it makes sense that the minute of silence is now observed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u313	That is also the understanding of the Bureau. So let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to vote No 511 / XIII ( 3. (a) — Condemnation and regret for the violence of the Israeli army against the March of the Return, presented by the PS. To read the vote, Mr. Idália Salvador Serrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u314	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last March 30, thousands of Palestinians joined in five different points along the Gaza border with Israel, at the so-called Great Return March, to claim, among others, the right of return of Palestinian refugees. in this context, there were clashes between the protesters and the Israeli forces called to strengthen the borders, having the response of the Israeli army was of great violence and disproportionate, with a proven report of the use of real munitions against unarmed demonstrators, having recorded at least 18 Palestinian dead and more than 1400 wounded, leading to intense congestion of the central hospital of Shifa, which already works under very precarious conditions. The UN Security Council met as a matter of urgency and had not yet approved an independent inquiry into the events of March 30. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres stated that this tragedy reveals the urgency of revitalizing the peace process, creating conditions for a solution that can enable Israelis and Palestinians to live in peace and security. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : condemns the disproportionate violence of the Israeli army against the March of the Return, which caused the loss of human lives and more than 1400 wounded, expressing its regret at the death of 18 people; calls for Israel's respect for its responsibilities arising from international humanitarian law and for an independent and transparent settlement of the actions that led to the confrontations; and expresses its solidarity with the efforts of the international community to find a just solution, based on a two-State solution and accepted by the parties to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u315	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, PCP, The Greens and PAN, votes against 4 members of the CDS-PP (Ilda Araújo Novo, João Gonçalves Pereira, João Rebelo and Teresa Caeiro) and abstentions of the CDS-PP and 3 MPS (Carlos Abreu Amorim, Miguel Morgado and Paula Teixeira da Cruz).]] We turn to vote No 515/ XIII ( 3. (a) — Condemning the massacre of the Palestinian population by the Israeli authorities, submitted by the PCP and subscribed by a PS Member. The CFP has called for the vote on all points of this separate vote, which we will do.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u316	First you must be read, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u317	That's exactly what we're going to do after your reading. Thank you very much, Mr João Oliveira. You have the floor to read this vote, Mr Secretary Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u318	Mr. President and Mr. Member, the vote shall be as follows: « On March 30, the day the Palestinian people sign Earth Day began a peaceful demonstration, called the Great March of the Return, in which tens of thousands of Palestinians renewed the demand for the creation of a State of Palestine. The response of the Israeli Government was brutal. Israeli military forces fired real bullets at thousands of unarmed civilians, causing 18 dead and nearly 1500 wounded, all Palestinians, in which it can only be described as an intention to commit a massacre. There is a huge historical debt to the Palestinian people. For seven decades now, the United Nations has been committed to the creation of a Palestinian State on Palestinian territory, a promise that remains to be fulfilled. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : 1 — Condemns the massacre of Palestinian protesters by the Israeli authorities and requires them to cease their repression and, in particular, the use of firearms against peaceful demonstrations; 2 — Demands the end of the blockade of the Gaza Strip, the population of which is subject to inhuman survival conditions repeatedly denounced by UN bodies ; 3 — Calls upon the Portuguese Government to express unequivocally the condemnation of the repression of Palestinians by the Israeli authorities on 30 March, including through firm measures in the context of bilateral relations and promotion, in international forums and bodies where Portugal acts, of the same condemnation; 4 — Calls on the Portuguese Government to acknowledge the State of Palestine, following the example of many other countries; 5 — Renews its requirement that, in accordance with numerous United Nations resolutions, a State of Palestine be created, sovereign and viable, on the 1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as capital and ensuring the right of return of refugees. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u319	Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on vote No 115 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), which has just been read, starting with point 1. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the PS and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 20 PS (Ana Passos, André Pinotes Batista, Vasconcelos Bacelar, Carla Sousa, Catarina Marcelino, Constance Urbano de Sousa, Diogo Leone, Fernando Anastácio, Helena Roseta, Hugo Carvalho, Isabel Alves Moreira, Ivan Gonçalves, João Galamba, José Miguel Medeiros, Margarida Marques, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Marisabel Moutela, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Sergio Sousa Pinto and Wanda Guimarães) and abstentions of 5 PS (Elza Pais, Isabel Santos, João Soares, Miranda Calha and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u320	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u321	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u322	Mr President, to remind the House that paragraph 2 of the vote by the Portuguese Communist Party corresponds to a proposal by the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Assembly of the Republic, which has already been adopted in this Chamber, in order to urge the Government of Portugal to recognise the Palestinian State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u323	Mrs. Members, let us vote on point 2 of vote No 515 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstentions of the PAN and the Member of the PS João Soares.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3 of this same vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and 21 PS (Ana Passos, André Pinotes Batista, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Constance Urbano de Sousa, Diogo León, Fernando Anastácio, Helena Roseta, Hugo Carvalho, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, João Galamba, José Miguel Medeiros, Margarida Marques, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Marisabel Moutela, Norberto Patinho, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Sergio Sousa Pinto and Wanda Guimarães) and abstentions of PS and PAN.]] We turn to the vote on point 4 of vote No 515 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 22 PS (Ana Passos, André Pinotes Batista, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Constance Urbano de Sousa, Diogo Leone, Fernando Anastácio, Helena Roseta, Hugo Carvalho, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, João Galamba, José Miguel Medeiros, Margarida Marques, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Marisabel Moutela, Norberto Patinho, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Susa Pinto, Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and Wanda Guimarães), votes against the CDS-PP and the PSS deputy Miguel Morgado and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u324	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u325	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u326	It's just for a clarification, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u327	To ask for a clarification?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u328	In order to make a correction, Mr President, in the following sense: I gave point 2 for a short time, but it was obviously point 4 which I wanted to refer to, as the one with regard to an exhortation to the Government, that the Portuguese Parliament has already approved, in the sense of the recognition of the Palestinian State, which remains valid, as it is evident.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u329	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on the last point, point 5, of vote No 515 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u330	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u331	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u332	For an appeal to the Bureau, in the same manner as the previous Bureau, Mr President, just to stress that the resolution adopted by Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto referred to, notes that the recognition of the State of Palestine should be made in consultation with the European Union and within the framework agreed between the States. in this context, it has been consensualized by this way. [[Protests by PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] I know that we are in the middle of a vote and therefore I think that there should be no debate but, if an appeal was made accepted by the Bureau, which I have just done seems equally justified. [[Protests by PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u333	Mrs. Members, let us then proceed to the vote on point 5 of vote No 515/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and 22 PS Members (Ana Passos, André Pinotes Batista, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Constance Urbano de Sousa, Diogo León, Fernando Anastácio, Fernando Jesus, Helena Roseta, Hugo Carvalho, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, João Galamba, José Miguel Medeiros, Margarida Marques, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Marisabel Moutela, Norberto Patinho, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Sergio Sousa Pinto and Wanda Guimarães), votes against the CDS-PP and the PSD representative Miguel Morgado and abstentions, PS and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u334	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u335	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u336	For a brief explanation to the Bureau, Mr President, on this vote and the conduct of the proceedings, just to say the following: the Bureau and Mr President, with all legitimacy, responded to the request to separate the various points of this vote, but we, however, resolve to be more pragmatic and, from our point of view, to make a comprehensive reading of the vote, defining our position on the basis of that reading, regardless of whether we agree more with one point or another. from there we have never differentiated our sense of vote on the different points, although we could agree more on one or another point in particular.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u337	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, recently, I had appealed to the honourable Members. Members wishing to give an indication of statements of vote, with regard to the vote on vote No 515 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) which we have just done at the end of the vote on the various points. So I ask now if anyone has any indication to make and, if not, we move on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u338	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u339	Please, Mr. Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u340	Mr President, on behalf of several Members of the Socialist Party — I am afraid to omit any of the names of the Members who have expressed this intention — I would like to announce that we are going to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u341	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to vote No 516 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemning the massacre in the Gaza Strip on 30 March, submitted by BE and signed by a PS Member who will be read by Mr. Secretary Moisés Ferreira. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u342	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last March 30 saw another bloody chapter in the history of the occupation of Palestine. in a protest called to mark the ‘ Day of Earth ’ — which evokes the death of six unarmed Palestinians in the demonstrations of March 30, 1976 against the confiscation of lands — tens of thousands of Palestinians, concentrated at the Gaza border with Israel, were target of a brutal repressive maneuver led by Israeli military forces. According to the Ministry of Health in Gaza, in addition to the death of 18 civilians, more than 1400 Palestinians were injured, 757 by real bullets. Rubber bullets and tear gas bombs were also fired. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu congratulated his soldiers, while Defence Minister Avigdor Lieberman said they deserved a medal for their deeds. The Government of Israel has not acceded to the requests for an ‘independent and transparent’ research, in particular by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, and by the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign and Security Policy, Federica Mogherini. This attack was the most deadly one day produced in the Palestinian enclave in Gaza since 2014 and once again proves disproportionate aggression as a constant policy of the Israeli State. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the massacre of Palestinian civilians in the Gaza Strip, as a violation of international humanitarian law and human rights by the Government of Israel ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u343	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed to the vote. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, PCP, Os Verdes, the PAN and 21 PS (Ana Passos, André Pinotes Batista, Vasconcelos Bacelar, Carla Sousa, Catarina Marcelino, Constance Urbano de Sousa, Diogo Leone, Fernando Anastácio, Helena Roseta, Hugo Carvalho, Isabel Alves Moreira, Ivan Gonçalves, João Galamba, José Miguel Medeiros, Margarida Marques, Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Marisabel Moutela, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Sergio Sousa Pinto and Wanda Guimarães) and the abstention of PS MP Isabel Santos.]] We turn to vote No 517/ XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Concern and condemnation of the escalation of violence in Gaza, presented by the CDS-PP and the PSD. I ask the Secretary, Mr Carlos Monteiro, to proceed with his reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u344	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "The recent confrontations between the Palestinians and the Israeli security forces on the Gaza border with Israel are extremely worrying, not only because of the very serious human consequences resulting from this tension, but also because of their impact on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. So far, the escalation of recorded violence has resulted in the death of 20 protesters and more than 1400 wounded. Indeed, the statements made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations in calling for ‘ an independent and transparent investigation into these incidents ’ are absolutely understandable and justifiable. The escalation of hostilities in the Gaza Strip results from the Hamas summons of the protest movement against the State of Israel, at its border, baptized by the same Islamic organization as the ‘ Great March of the Return ’. The Hamas stance, a movement whose Fundamental Charter continues to fail to recognize the existence of the State of Israel, aims exclusively, risking the lives of civilians to this effect, aggravate the existing blocking situation of the peace negotiation process and undermine the possibility of resumption of dialogue between the parties. However, and despite Israel's legitimate right to self-defence, the use of force by the Israeli authorities must always comply with proportionality criteria. The Assembly of the Republic therefore expresses its concern at the worsening tension between Palestinians and the Israeli security forces; condemns all acts of violence committed at the border between Israel and Gaza; calls for the abstention of any other person who may cause more victims and put civilians in danger; and is associated with statements by the Secretary-General of the United Nations calling for ‘independent and transparent investigation into these incidents’ and for a return to the table of negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians, in order to promote future coexistence between two States, on the one hand, in peace and in security’.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u345	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 517 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and 6 PS (André Pinotes Batista, Catarina Marcelino, Constança Urbano de Sousa, Isabel Alves Moreira, João Soares and Sérgio Sousa Pinto), votes against BE, PCP, Os Verdes and 7 PS (Carla Sousa, Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, João Galamba, José Miguel Medeiros, Paulo Trigo Pereira and Wanda Guimarães) and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u346	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u347	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u348	Mr President, it was to inform the Bureau that I shall, on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Trigo Pereira, deliver a vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u349	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u350	Mrs. Deputy, what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u351	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that, on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Miguel Medeiros, I will give a vote on these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u352	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u353	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u354	Mr President, it is for the same purpose to inform the Bureau that I will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u355	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u356	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u357	Mr President, to inform the Bureau that I shall submit a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u358	We now proceed to vote No 509/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greetings to all carriers of autism spectrum disturbances and their families for enduring, submitted by the CDS-PP and subscribed by PS and PS Members, who will be read by Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u359	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last April 2 was marked the International Day for the Awareness of Autism, a disturbance of child development affecting at least 70 million people worldwide, according to the United Nations ( UN ). To mark the date, several Portuguese monuments and buildings were illuminated with blue, joining the initiative of the Autism Speaks project. Autism spectrum disorders are a neuro-behavioral syndrome that originates in central nervous system disorders that affects the normal development of the child in social, behavioral and communication domains. There are no official data on the reality of our country. However, between 2015 and 2018, Portugal participated in a European study that estimates that the number of children with autism spectrum disturbance, between 7 and 9 years of age, is between 8 and 10,000 children only in the districts of Aveiro, Viseu, Guarda, Castelo Branco, Coimbra, Leiria, Santarém and Lisboa (and registered at the Pediatric Hospital of Coimbra ). The cases of disturbance of the spectrum of autism have grown at an epidemic pace and, as Pope Francis said, ‘ everyone’s commitment is necessary to promote acceptance, meeting, solidarity, a concrete work of support and renewed promotion of hope’ that enables them to ‘ break the isolation’ and the ‘ stigma ’ that often ‘ weighs on people suffering from autism and also on their families. ’ The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, does not resign itself to sign this day, in a demonstration of respect for the holders of autism, welcoming the perseverance and dignity of their families, as well as health, education and rehabilitation professionals who, with professionalism, devote themselves to these children, young people and adults. The Assembly of the Republic calls on the Government and the institutions to improve the response to this neurological disorder, which affects more and more people in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u360	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote: No 512 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — Greetings by 69. the anniversary of the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty, presented by the PSD, which will be read by Secretary Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u361	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The North Atlantic Treaty, the basic foundation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ), was signed on 4 April 1949, in Washington D.C. by its 12 founding States: Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, France, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Portugal, Italy, Norway, Denmark and Iceland. NATO — and thus transatlantic military cooperation — was born from Article 5. that of the North Atlantic Treaty, in which it is stated that ‘ an armed attack against one or more member countries will be considered an aggression against all’. The basis for the guarantee of the right of collective defence derives from Article 51. the Charter of the United Nations. The principle of collective defence compromises its members to protect each other and defines a spirit of solidarity among all members of the Alliance. As a founding member of the Atlantic Alliance, Portugal has been a loyal and active member of NATO, particularly after democratic standardization in Portugal. The membership of NATO after the post-revolutionary period took place in Portugal itself as a Western country, in its dual aspect of European and Atlantic. Together with the European Union, NATO appears to be one of the essential pillars to ensure peace in Europe, as it has happened since the end of World War II. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes 69. the anniversary of the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty, thus reaffirming on this occasion the commitment of Portugal to NATO. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u362	Then let's vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, a request was made by the PS, asking for a discharge from the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 111 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to approve a more favourable tax and contribution scheme for maritime transport and a special collection of material based on tonnage of vessels. Obviously, the PS ensures that it has obtained the prior agreement of the Government for this purpose. Let's vote on the request. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Also with the assumption of the Government's agreement, a request was submitted by the PS requesting the low Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting, for a period of 60 days, of Bill No 112 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines the mission and tasks of the National Crime Victim Support Commission. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 1323 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — At the end of outsourcing in the provision of health care and psychological monitoring in prisons and guarantee of access to the health of prisoners ( BE ). The PS requested the breakdown of the vote of paragraphs 1 and 2, following the vote of paragraphs 3 and 4. We therefore vote paragraphs 1 and 2. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Let us now vote on paragraphs 3 and 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD were adopted.]] We therefore proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 814 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the existence of self-services for the provision of medical, nursing and psychology care in prisons( 5 ). the amendment to Law No 115 / 2009 of 12 October approving the Code for the Enforcement of Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and PAN were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 1462 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the contractual and wage stability of psychologists working in prison establishments ( NAPs ). The PS also requests the separate vote of paragraphs 1 and 2, following the vote of paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. We therefore vote paragraphs 1 and 2. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u363	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u364	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u365	Mr President, it is to correct the point of vote. The PS voted against paragraphs 1 and 2 when it wanted to vote in favour; as for paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 we voted in favour when we wanted to vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u366	That is to say, they voted everything the contrary! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u367	On the contrary, we voted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u368	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us repeat the whole vote so that there is no doubt as to what this amendment means. We voted again on paragraphs 1 and 2 of draft resolution No 1462/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that no one is voting against. Something's happened... [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, we are still voting on draft resolution 1462 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u369	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u370	Mr President, is it about the voting process?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u371	Mr. President, in fact, there was a confusion here...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u372	Again? Oh, my God! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u373	That's right, Mr. President. With regard to paragraphs 1 and 2, our point of vote is indeed against. The first vote was right. [[Laughing.]] As for paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 our sense of vote is also in favour. In other words, the first vote was correct.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u374	Mrs. Members, the Bureau receives statements of vote from the first rows. We shall repeat these votes, we have no other remedy. I'm asking the ladies. Members who will be able to see if they finally succeed in your voting positions. [[Pause.]] We shall re-vote paragraphs 1 and 2 of draft resolution No 1462/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a), of the NAP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We voted again on paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of the same draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u375	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u376	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u377	Mr President, it is to announce the presentation of a declaration of vote on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group on draft law No 814 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), the CFP, and draft resolutions 1323 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), BE, and 1462 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the NAP for dealing with the same matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u378	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u379	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u380	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u381	Mr President, it is to inform on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party that we will present a declaration of vote on the votes of draft resolutions Nos 1323 / XIII, of the Block of Left, 1462 / XIII, of the PAN, and of draft law Nos 814 / XIII, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u382	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will move on to the general vote on Bill No 580 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Limits the period of loyalty in contracts for the provision of electronic communications services ( The Greens ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u383	Mr President, we have submitted a request, asking the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works for a period of 30 days...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u384	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u385	Mr President, the application for a discharge has been distributed to the Commission for a period of 30 days...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u386	The Bureau already has the updated script. Let us then vote on the request just announced by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are doubts in the Bureau about the progress of the votes. I ask your understanding. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u387	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u388	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u389	Mr President, it is about the progress of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u390	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u391	Mr President, in this case we can simplify the voting process. There are five low requirements to the committee, without a vote, relating to the projects of lein.o 580 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 815 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), 1464 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), 817 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 818 / XIII ( 3. ( a). I believe that we can make a joint vote on the Commission's applications without a vote on these initiatives. They are all projects relating to the Electronic Communications Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u392	The Bureau faces some difficulties in understanding these requirements. [[Pause.]] Therefore, consolidating, were submitted by the Greens, BE, PAN, PS, PS, and PS respectively, requests for the fall to the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, without voting for a period of 30 days of the projects of lein. 580 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Limits the period of loyalty in contracts for the provision of electronic communications services ( The Greens ), 815 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of customers of electronic communications services in loyalty contracts ( tenth amendment to the Electronic Communications Act) ( BE), 817 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Decreases the maximum period of loyalty in electronic communications and introduces new mandatory elements to the contract ( NAP) and 818 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Electronic Communications Act ( PSD ) and draft resolution No 1464 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to implement the simplified information sheet in electronic communications contracts ( PS ). We shall then proceed to the joint vote on these requests which I have just mentioned. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 66 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part, signed in Munich on 18 February 2017. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PSD and the CDS-PP, the votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 333 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a scientific study on the fluctuations in sardine abundance and the existence of weak recruitments ( NAPs). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u393	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u394	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u395	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will submit, in writing, a statement of vote on the vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u396	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 965 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a study on the impact of high-voltage lines on the health of populations and suspends the construction of the high-voltage line in Barcelos, studying the alternative possibility of underground placement of cables of the same ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1371/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a treatment station for pig effluents ( ETES) of public management in Leiria ( BE ). At the request of the PS, we first voted paragraphs 1 and 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and PS Deputies António Sales, José Miguel Medeiros and Margarida Marques, votes against the PAN and abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] We then voted paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u397	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u398	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u399	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u400	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u401	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u402	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u403	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. We will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u404	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We can continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1401 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The urgent inventory of situations and infrastructures of capital interest at risk and the definition of a risk minimisation programme for the use of the Algarve coast range ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1458/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the measures necessary for the management of the seaweed coast with the objective of combating the growing erosion of the coastal zone and ensuring its planning and planning ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1459 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent lifting of all at-risk heritage infrastructures and a plan to intervene and mitigate the risks of the coastal range, the replacement of donor cordages and dredgings in the Algarve ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u405	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u406	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u407	Mr President, it is to be announced that on behalf of the Socialist Party, a statement of vote will be made on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u408	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1330 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement the mandatory information on urban rehabilitation operations in buildings or fractions in respect of technical standards and standards which have been or have not been met ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1381/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up proposals for building standards for interventions in existing buildings in order to ensure the verification of seismic resistance ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 507 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the classification of mobility scooters in order to allow them access to all modes of passenger transport ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 879 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends urgent intervention in the requalification of CI2, between Leiria and Pombal, and between IC8, between Pombal and Ansion ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 3 PS (António Sales, José Miguel Medeiros and Margarida Marques) and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u409	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u410	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u411	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u412	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1303 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends exemption from payment of moderate rates, drug sharing and non-urgent transport support for patients with sclerodermia ( BE). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 1 PS Member (Paulo Trigo Pereira) and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u413	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u414	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u415	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u416	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1461 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen health accessibility to patients with sclerosis ( PCP ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 1 PS Member (Paulo Trigo Pereira) and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1295 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out an impact assessment of the Eco-School Programme ( CDS-PP ). The text was replaced by the Committee on Education and Science. The PS calls for the autonomous vote on points 1 and 2. We shall vote on point 1. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 912 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Environmental education as a valued component of public school ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, and BE abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1299 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotion of environmental education in the curricula of basic and secondary education ( BE ). The PS also calls for the disaggregated vote on this initiative. Let's start by voting point 1. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the CFP, votes in favour of BE and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and 1 Member of the PS (Paulo Trigo Pereira) and the PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Let us finally vote on point 3. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u417	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u418	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u419	Mr President, it is to announce that on the vote on this draft resolution the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u420	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1152 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of measures under the Action Plan of the International Decade of Afro-descendants ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote, in the speciality, of the amendments concerning Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March, which approves the specific scheme for the selection and recruitment of teachers of specialized artistic teaching of music and dance[ Parliamentary assessments n. 58 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( PCP ), 60 / XIII ( 3 ). ( BE ), 57 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PSD ) and 56 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) ), which appear in the second ballot box.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u421	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u422	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u423	Mr President, it is to assist the Bureau in presenting the following script of votes. The Left Block shall withdraw from page 18 of this script the vote on the proposed amendment to Article 16 ( 10 ). the Annex to Decree-Law No 15 / 2018, of 7 March. That is why this vote will not take place.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u424	It is noted, Mr. Deputies. Is there any other comment you would like to make on the vote script?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u425	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u426	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u427	Mr President, in an effort to ensure that the votes contained in the 19 pages of script do not consume the rest of the afternoon, I would like to propose that we make the votes in sets of articles. It therefore proposes that we proceed together to all the votes proposed from page 1 to the end of page 5 of this script. I believe that we will all be in a position to vote on all these proposals together.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u428	Mr Adam Silva is giving a sign of agreement to the Bureau, I believe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u429	Mr President, I just wanted to say that we agree with Mr. João Oliveira's proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u430	If there is no sign of disagreement on the part of the benches — on the contrary, there are signs of agreement — we shall proceed to the joint vote in the speciality of the following amendments to Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March 2018: amending Article 1 ( 2 ( b ). the, submitted by the PSD ; elimination / revocation of Article 5 ( 2 ). the, submitted by the PCP, the PSD, the BE, and the CDS-PP ; the elimination / revocation of Article 5 ( 3 ). the, submitted by the PCP, the PSD, the BE, and the CDS-PP ; the elimination / revocation of Article 5 ( 4 ). the, submitted by the PCP, the PSD, the BE, and the CDS-PP ; and the elimination / revocation of Article 5 ( 5 ). the, presented by PCP, PSD, BE and CDS-PP. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, according to your consent, we shall vote in favour of these proposals. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CCP and the Greens were adopted, votes against the PS and the NAP.]] The following is the proposed amendment to Article 1 ( 2 ( b ). the, submitted by PSD : ( b ) Initiated internal competition pursuant to Article 6 ( 1 ( c ). the Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 of 27 June in its current wording and extraordinary external competition provided for in Article 39. the Law No 114 / 2017, of 29 December.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u431	Mrs. Members of the Bureau so far no further requests for aggregation regarding the forthcoming votes relating to proposals for addendum to Article 5 ( 6 ). that of the so-called Decree-Law. I ask you whether they are differentiated from one another or whether they can be voted together. [[Pause.]] Therefore, they cannot be voted together. Before you put to the vote, I have to ask you a question. As regards proposals for the addition of Article 5 ( 6 ). I'm asking the ladies. Members who take into account whether the possible approval of some of them will prejudice the possible approval of the others on the same subject. Since there is no final wording, we all need to be particularly attentive to the effects of the votes that will take place.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u432	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u433	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u434	Mr President, I believe that only the vote can determine that. I therefore propose that we take the vote and we shall see that if there are any proposals which are harmful.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u435	That's exactly why I asked for your special attention. Mrs. Members, let us begin by voting on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 5 ( 6 ). the Decree-Law No. 15 / 2018, of 7 March. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the NAP.]] It is as follows: 6 — All full and incomplete hours, collected by the Directorate-General for School Administration, shall be considered in the internal mobility contest by means of a proposal from the governing body of the grouping of schools or of the non-grouped school.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u436	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u437	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u438	Mr President, having approved this addition, I believe that the votes of the proposals submitted by BE and the CDS-PP for the addition of Article 5 ( 6 ) are detrimental. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u439	Having agreed, the other proposals for addendum to Article 5 ( 6 ) are in fact prejudiced. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u440	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u441	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u442	Mr President, again to facilitate, I propose that all the following proposals be voted on together until page 8 of the script, excluding the last one.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u443	There are no signs of non-acceptance of this method by the banks, I am going to identify the amendments concerning Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March 2018 which will be voted on together in the speciality: to delete / revoke Article 6. the, presented by the PCP, PSD, BE and CDS-PP, and the elimination / revocation of Article 7. the, presented by PCP, PSD, BE and CDS-PP. We shall then vote on the proposals which I have just put forward in the speciality and together. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CCP and the Greens were adopted, votes against the PS and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u444	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u445	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u446	Mr President, it is to make a new proposal for a joint vote on the following proposals until the end of page 12 of the script.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u447	Does any bench oppose this suggestion by Mr João Oliveira? [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, then we shall proceed to the joint vote in the speciality of the following proposals: elimination/revocation of Article 9 (2). the, submitted by the CFP and BE ; amending Article 9 ( 3 ). the, submitted by the CFP and BE ; amending Article 9 ( 4 ). the, submitted by the CFP and BE ; amending Article 10 ( 2 ). the, submitted by the CFP ; amending Article 10 ( 3 ). the, submitted by the CFP and BE ; amending Article 10 ( 4 ). the, submitted by the CFP and BE ; amending Article 10 ( 5 ). the, submitted by BE ; adding from paragraph 6 to Article 10. the, presented by the CFP ; adding a new paragraph 1 to Article 12. the, submitted by BE ; adding from paragraph 3 to Article 12. the ( PCP ) ; and amending Article 3 ( 2 ). the Annex to Decree-Law, submitted by the PCP and BE. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the proposals I have just mentioned in detail. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[They were as follows: (Amendment of Article 9(2), submitted by BE) 2 — Teachers of specialized artistic education of music and dance and teaching staff of technical and artistic components of specialized artistic education for the exercise of functions in the areas of visual and audiovisual arts that at the time of placement have a degree of undergraduate and are holders of professional qualification integrate the teaching career being immediately repositioned in indexes corresponding to all the time of service provided after what will apply Article 37 of the Staff Regulations of Teacher Careers. (Amendment of Article 9(3), submitted by the PCP) 3 — Teachers of specialized artistic education in music and dance and teaching staff of technical and artistic components of specialized artistic education for the performance of functions in the areas of visual arts and audiovisual arts that at the time of placement have the degree of undergraduate and are not professionalized integrate the career into index 167 in accordance with Article 43(1) of Decree-Law No 132/2012 of 27 June, in their current wording, until 31 August of the year in which they complete the professional qualification, beginning on 1 September of that year to position themselves in the corresponding index of teaching time provided so far. (Amendment of Article 9(3), submitted by BE) 3 — Teachers of specialized artistic education of music and dance and teaching staff of technical and artistic components of specialized artistic education for the performance of functions in the areas of visual arts and audiovisual arts that at the time of placement have the degree of undergraduate and are not professionalized integrate the career into index 167 according to Article 43(1) of Decree-Law No 132/2012 of 27 June, in their current wording, until 31 August of the year in which they complete professional qualification, and from 1 September of that year are repositioned in index corresponding to the entire period of service provided. (Amendment of Article 9(4), submitted by the PCP) 4 — Teachers of specialized artistic education of music and dance and teaching staff of technical-artistic components of specialized artistic education for the exercise of functions in the areas of visual arts and audiovisual arts that at the time of placement do not have the degree of professional degree of graduation integrate the career into index 167 in accordance with Article 43(1) of Decree-Law No 132/2012 of 27 June 2012 in its current wording. (Amendment of Article 9(4), submitted by BE) 4 — Teachers of specialized artistic education of music and dance and teaching staff of technical-artistic components of specialized artistic education for the performance of functions in the areas of visual arts and audiovisual arts that at the time of placement do not have the degree of graduation integrate the career into index 167 in accordance with Article 43(1) of Decree-Law No 132/2012 of 27 June in its current wording. (Amendment of Article 10(2), submitted by the CFP) 2 — Failure to verify the condition referred to in the previous paragraph determines the application of Article 18(1)(a) of Law Decree No 132/2012 of 27 June in its current wording, unless the teacher demonstrates that this fact is not imputable to him and in particular on grounds of parenthood, illness or other reason provided for in the Act. (Amendment of Article 10(3), submitted by the PCP) 3 — Teachers of specialized artistic education in music and dance and teaching staff of technical and artistic components of specialized artistic education for the performance of functions in the areas of visual arts and audiovisual arts referred to in paragraph 4 of the preceding article remain in index 167 until they complete professionalization after moving to the index corresponding to the time teaching service provided so far, applying the provisions of Article 37 of the ECD. (Amendment of Article 10(3), submitted by BE) 3 — Teachers of specialized artistic education of music and dance and teaching staff of technical and artistic components of specialized artistic education for the performance of functions in the areas of visual arts and audiovisual arts referred to in paragraph 4 of the preceding article remain in index 167 until they complete professionalization after which they are repositioned in index corresponding to all the time of service provided, then applying Article 37 of the Statute of the Teacher Career. (Amendment of Article 10(4), submitted by the CFP) 4 — Career teachers provided in the recruitment groups set out in Acts Nos. 693/98 of 3 September and 192/2002 of 4 March and the teaching staff of the special techniques of public institutions of specialized artistic education, which are positioned in the indices 161 and 156 in accordance with Article 10(9) of Decree-Law No 15/007 of 19 January, move to the index corresponding to the time of service provided so far, applying the provisions of Article 37 of the ECD. (Amendment of Article 10(4), submitted by BE) 4 — Career teachers provided in the recruitment groups defined in Acts Nos. 693/98 of 3 September 192/2002 of 4 March 2002 and the teaching staff of the special techniques of public institutions of specialized artistic education, which are positioned in the indices 151 and 156 in accordance with Article 10(9) of Decree-Law No 15/2007 of 19 January 2007 shall immediately be repositioned in indexes corresponding to all the time of service provided, and shall then apply Article 37 of the Staff Regulations of Teaching Careers. (Amendment of Article 10(5), submitted by BE) 5 — Professionalization in the service of teachers of specialized artistic education of music and dance and teaching staff of technical and artistic components of specialized artistic education for the exercise of functions in the areas of visual arts and audiovisual arts will be carried out in public higher education institutions in conditions to be established by the government member with competence in education within 6 months. (Additional to Article 10(6) of the CFP) 6 — The Order provided for in the previous paragraph requires protocols with public higher education institutions to ensure that the courses necessary for professionalization provided for in this Chapter are carried out. (Addition of a new paragraph 1 to Article 12 submitted by BE) 1 — [New] The entry into the career of the teachers referred to in Article 1 of this diploma, holders of professional qualifications, shall be at the step corresponding to the time of service provided in teaching functions, classified with the minimum mention of Bom, irrespective of the legal title of the work relationship, in accordance with the general criteria of progression laid down in the Staff Regulations of the Teacher Career. (Addition of Article 12(3), presented by the CFP) 3 — The provisions laid down in Articles 9 and 10 shall apply until the school year of 2021/2022, except for different provisions. (Amendment of Article 3(2) of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by the CFP) 2 — Teachers who, at the time of opening of their competitions, have professional qualifications for teaching and the other requirements laid down in Article 22 of the Staff Regulations of Teachers (ECD) are opposed to the external competition. (Amendment of Article 3(2) of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by BE) 2 — Teachers who, at the time of opening of their competitions, have professional qualifications for teaching and the other requirements laid down in Article 22 of the Staff Regulations of Teaching Careers (ECD) are opposed to the external competition.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u448	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u449	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u450	Mr President, not wanting to appear on the stage, he proposed that we vote together on all the proposals on page 13 of the script.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u451	It is a precious help, Mr. Deputies. We're not always in disagreement. [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] We shall then vote together, and in the speciality, on the proposals which I refer to: Amendment to Article 4 (3). the Annex to Decree-Law, submitted by the PCP and BE, and the deletion / revocation of Article 4 ( 4 ). the Annex to Decree-Law, submitted by the PCP and BE. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstention from the NAP.]] [[These were the following: (Amendment of Article 4(3) of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by the CFP) 3 — The opening of the internal and external tenders shall be carried out annually. (Amendment of Article 4(3) of the Annex to Decree-Law, submitted by BE) 3 — Periodicity of internal and external tenders shall be annual.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u452	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u453	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u454	Mr President, my last help to the Bureau is that we are voting on all the following proposals together until the end of the script, excluding the last vote, which is the overall final vote. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u455	As we have seen, it has also been a help to the other parliamentary groups. Mrs. Members, we then proceed to vote on the following proposals: abolition/revocation of Article 7 ( 5 ). that of the Annex to Decree-Law submitted by the PCP and BE ; of addition from paragraph 6 to Article 7. the Annex to Decree-Law, submitted by the CFP ; addendum to Article 7 ( 7 ). the Annex to Decree-Law, submitted by the CFP ; the abolition / revocation of Article 8. the Annex to Decree-Law submitted by the PCP and BE ; amending Article 14 (2). the Annex to Decree-Law submitted by the CFP and the EB ; amending Article 15 ( 5 ( a ). the Annex to Decree-Law submitted by the CFP ; amending Article 15 ( 5 ( b ). the Annex to Decree-Law submitted by the CFP ; amending Article 15 ( 5 ( c ). that of the Annex to Decree-Law submitted by the CFP ; amending the body of Article 15 ( 5 ). the Annex to Decree-Law, submitted by the CFP ; the abolition / revocation of Article 15 (6). the Annex to Decree-Law submitted by the CFP ; adding a new paragraph 9 to Article 15. the Annex to Decree-Law submitted by the CFP ; amending Article 16 ( 2 ). the Annex to Decree-Law submitted by the CFP and BE ; amending Article 16 ( 3 ). that of the Annex to Decree-Law, submitted by the PCP and BE ; of addition from a new paragraph 10 to Article 16. the Annex to Decree-Law submitted by the CFP ; and the addition of Article 16. the -A to the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by the PCP. I note that the proposal submitted by BE amending Article 16 ( 10 ) has been withdrawn. that of the Annex. We shall vote together on the proposals I have just mentioned. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[They were as follows: (Additional to Article 7(6) of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by the PCP) 6 — The competence profile is considered, without prejudice to other specific criteria, the adequacy to the pedagogical model of the school to compete and artistic fitness for teaching and communication and interpersonal relationship capacity, and a practical proof of non-elimination can be performed. (Additional to Article 7(7) of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by the PCP) 7 — The practical evidence is mandatory and can be seen by all interested parties, the place, date and time of their timely execution posted on a visible and public location of the educational establishment facilities and made available on their electronic page. (Amendment of Article 14(2) of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by the PCP) 2 — If the public artistic educational establishments specialized in music and dance thus understand it, they may determine the realization of a practical proof of technical and pedagogical fitness to be carried out by all candidates for recruitment. (Amendment of Article 14(2) of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by BE) 2 — If the public artistic institutions specialized in music and dance thus understand it, they may determine as a prior method without a deleterious character the realization of a practical proof of technical and pedagogical fitness to be carried out by all candidates for recruitment. (Amendment of paragraph 5 (a) of Article 15 of the Annex to Decree-Law, submitted by the CFP) (a) Professional experience; (Amendment of paragraph 5 (b) of Article 15 of the Annex to Decree-Law, submitted by the CFP) (b) Additional authorizations and training; (Amendment of paragraph 5 of Article 15 of the Annex to Decree-Law, submitted by the CFP) (c) For the purpose of dis assignment, the candidate shall be considered with the greatest duration of service in the group, subgroup or discipline of artistic training to which he is applied. (Amendment of the body of Article 15(5) of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by the PCP) 5 — It is the objective criterion for selecting the curriculum evaluation, which takes into account at least the following aspects: (Additional of a new paragraph of Article 15(9) of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by the PCP) 9 — For the purposes of paragraph 5 of this Article only the curriculum vitae may be considered. (Amendment of Article 16(2) of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by the CFP) 2 — The succession of term-of-law contracts, at an annual and complete or incomplete time, concluded with the Ministry of Education, which exceeds permanent needs, may not exceed the limit of three years or two renewals. (Amendment of Article 16(2) of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by BE) 2 — The succession of term-of-law contracts concluded with the Ministry of Education following the placement of complete or incomplete annual hours in the same or in different groups, subgroup or discipline of artistic training, may not exceed the limit of three years or two renewals. (Amendment of Article 16(3) of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by the CFP) 3 — An annual contract shall be deemed to be the one to be the one to be placed until the last day of the first period and which shall apply until the end of the school year. (Amendment of paragraph 3 to Article 16 of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by BE) 3 — An annual contract is deemed to be an annual contract which takes place until 31 December and which lasts until the end of the school year. (Addition of a new paragraph 10 to Article 16 of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by the CFP) 10 — The number provided for in the previous number of contracts to be extended by 31 May shall not apply, in force until the end of the academic year. (Addition of Article 16a of the Annex to the Decree-Law, submitted by the CFP) Article 16a Positioning in Career 1 — For the purposes of this Act, the entry into the career of teachers with appropriate professional qualifications is made on the scale corresponding to the time of service provided in teaching and classified with the minimum qualitative mention of Bom, irrespective of the legal title of the subordinate work relationship, in accordance with the general criteria of progression provided for in the Statute of the Career of Children and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education, approved by Decree-Law No 139-A/90 of 28 April, in its current wording. 2 — The provisions of this Article shall apply until the publication of the scope provided for in Article 36(3) of the Statute of the Career of Children and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education (ECD), approved by Decree-Law No 139-A/90 of 28 April in its current wording, applicable from that time for the purposes of entry and career progression, as provided for in the ECD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u456	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u457	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u458	Mr President, I believe that I am trying to simplify the votes as much as possible, but I believe that in this series of votes the two preambular articles and the entry into force of the proposed amendments to the PSD were to be voted on. He therefore proposed that the joint vote should be taken on Articles 1. o, 2. a is 4. or, if I'm not mistaken. It is the pre-packaged articles and the entry into force.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u459	With a strong desire from the Bureau that, in the end, all of this would be right. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that Articles 1 are to be voted on. o, 2. the Article of entry into force, which is Article 4. o?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u460	Mr President, it is Article 1. the, the heading and the body of Article 2. Article 3. the, which is what indicates the rules which have been repealed, and Article 4. the proposed amendments to the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u461	Do we all agree? [[Pause.]] Let us then vote for them. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were adopted, votes against the PS and the NAP.]] [[The following are the following: Article 1 Subject This diploma is subject to the first amendment of Decree-Law No 15/2018 of 7 March, which approves the specific scheme for the selection and recruitment of teachers of specialized artistic education of music and dance and the system of the anticipated internal competition. Article 2 Amendments Article 1(2)(b) and Article 5 of Law Decree No 15/2018 of 7 March shall be amended as follows: (...) Article 3 Repeal Articles 6 and 7 of Law Decree No 15/2018 of 07 March shall be repealed. Article 4 Entry into force This law shall enter into force on the day following its publication.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u462	Mrs. Members, let us now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March, including the amendments adopted. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens, votes against the PS and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u463	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u464	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u465	Mr President, it is to be announced that we will present a written declaration of vote on Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u466	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u467	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u468	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u469	Mr President, it is also to announce that the PCP Parliamentary Group will present a written declaration of vote on the votes taken under Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March 2018. However, I would like to stress the congratulations which I believe must be given to the services of the Assembly of the Republic because they have been able from yesterday to this day to prepare a script of votes with this requirement. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u470	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Porfirio Silva, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u471	Mr President, it is also to announce the delivery of a written declaration of vote on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group on the votes relating to Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u472	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Margarida Mano asks for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u473	Yes, Mr. President. It is also to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will make a written declaration of vote on the votes taken and on Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u474	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u475	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will also deliver a written declaration of vote on the votes relating to Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-06.u476	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau fully associates itself with the congratulation of our technical services' efforts to produce this supplementary script in such a useful time. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to announce that the next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 11 April, beginning at 3 p.m., having as a matter of order the discussion, in general, of draft law No 822 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concretization of the second phase of the revision of the reform scheme in advance of flexibility by eliminating double penalty for long-term pensioners ( BE ) to 63 years of age. In this context, there can be a vote at the end of the debate. Nothing else to deal with, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate you on your resistance. The session is closed. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]]
