ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of the Staff and Members of the Commission. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities to open gallery doors to the public. The first item on the agenda consists in the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 116 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the system of balanced representation between men and women in the management staff and in the organs of the Public Administration and 117 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the law of parity in the organs of political power and draft law No 833 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures measures to promote equality and non-discrimination between women and men in the exercise of leadership positions by proceeding with 7. the amendment to Law No 2 / 2004 of 15 January, which approves the status of the staff in charge of the services and bodies of the Public Administration ( PCP ). For an intervention, the Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernisation has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to look at this Parliament, the Government, the leaders of the Public Administration, the managers of private companies and see a balanced society represented. Great steps have been taken in this regard since 25 April 1974, but we can and should go further. Balance is, as we all know, a clear sign of democratic majority, of the quality of democracy and of strengthening participation. From now on, as regards the balanced representation of men and women in political decision-making positions. Experience leads us to reflect on the need for revision of the Parity Law, which was adopted in this Parliament in 2006, since only in 2015 — it took 9 years — we reached 33% of women elected in Parliament. Their compliance, from the beginning in the order of the lists, has been placed in the minimum standard permitted by the Law, and there are still no compliance lists in the municipal elections, where it is not expressive, or less expressive, the impact of the Law. We therefore intend to go further in creating more demanding and effective criteria and mechanisms, which guarantee this balanced representation of men and women in political power bodies, in line with what is done today in the European Union and in many democratic countries around the world. We therefore propose to raise the present 33 % threshold to 40%, following what is recommended by the Council of Europe and not even going further than that. We would also extend the scope of the Law, which includes the lists at the floor of the fregetal boards, as well as the composition of the tables of the representative assemblies, such as that which I have behind me. As a guarantee of respect for the 40% rule between electors, the first two places are occupied by different sex candidates, keeping the current rule for the remaining places. In case of substitution, and also as a guarantee of the effectiveness of the balance — which is not desirable only on the lists, of course, is -it is in the representative bodies — we introduce the rule that the mandate is given to the candidate of the same sex. Finally, the proposal revises the penalty mechanism for the rejection of the non-compliance list, if not properly corrected. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The balanced representation of men and women in the world of work is not exhausted from political representation. That is why our responsibility accelerates, broadens and deepens the pace of change, also seeking a more balanced public administration in its gender composition, in its governing bodies. Therefore, the second bill we are discussing today has positive action measures that promote the representativeness of the decision, enhancing leadership and change in practices in Public Administration, universities and public associations. This bill has also set a minimum threshold for the balanced representation of 40% of persons of each sex in leadership positions in the Public Administration, particularly in colleges. Finally, it should be noted that these initiatives are part of the government's policy on equality and non-discrimination, which has many other measures which will certainly contribute to a more just, more representative and more inclusive Portuguese society and which help to make these measures we are discussing today effective. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue our work, I would like to inform the House that we have among us a delegation from the Chamber of Representatives of New Zealand, headed by the respective President, for whom I would like to congratulate. [[General applause, stand up.]] As we continue our work, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, "The existence of a wide range of effective measures, from an economic and social point of view and to combat discriminatory attitudes and practices, which allow Portuguese women to participate equally in the exercise of political power. Women's participation in political equality plays an important and irreplaceable role in the advancement of women's status and an essential condition for the full realization of democracy." These words, we said in 2001. Today, we reaffirm them in full. On the proposal for a law amending the Act of Parity, the CFP maintains its position of principle. The imposition of a quota aims to create the illusion that, with more women in Parliament, women automatically become better represented and to be defended their rights irrespective of the ideological position of those who are elected. It is not sex that determines the political options, as we have often confirmed here; class issues are related to gender issues in the way each of the Members votes and participates. Was it not Parliament with more women who, between 2011 and 2015, voted the cut in wages, the increase in working hours in the Public Administration and the withdrawal of rights, when most of the employees of the Public Administration are women, including the Minister of Finance being a woman? Oh, my God! Was it not Parliament with more women who reversed the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy? Yes, sir. Members and Members of Parliament. Having said this, parties can, and the CFP does so because it believes it is important, to define and take on internal goals and objectives to strengthen the conditions of participation of its militants. The CFP will continue to work to increase women's participation in political life, and to that end we do not need quotas imposed by law, such as the history of women's participation in the struggle, in the Party, in society and in this Parliament has shown, with proposals that still form the national legislative structure on effective equality and not equality in role.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u6	Regardless of this principle position, the opinions received from various entities on this bill should be taken into account. On the proposal for a law addressed to the executive staff in the Public Administration, in the unipersonal bodies, the overwhelming majority of cases covered by the bill will be appointed by appointment, through contests provided by CRESAP ( Commission for Recruitment and Selection for Public Administration ). The general principle must always be that of tendering for senior management rather than appointment. The verification of compliance with the requirements for the performance of the functions may not be subject to the sex of the manager who exercises them but, rather, to those who have the best classification in the competition for the performance of the functions. in the context of the lists submitted to colleges, we maintain the position of principle of rejection of the quota system. The CFP presents a draft law to ensure that, in situations of enjoyment of maternity and paternity rights, as well as in situations of support for the family, the organs and services of mechanisms of material equality conditions in the performance of management functions, such as the use of co-adjudication, counselling and technical support. We propose that it be assumed unequivocally that the enjoyment of maternity and paternity rights and support to the family cannot have a negative impact on performance assessment. Mrs. Members, this is not guaranteed today in the law and many workers in the Public Administration, women and men, have a negative impact for the performance assessment because they have enjoyed maternity and paternity leave. We also propose, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members, let the Government forward annually to the Assembly of the Republic a statistical report on the number of competitive procedures that have been opened for leading positions, be superior, be intermediate, in public administrations, the total number of opponents to them and their results, identifying the reasons for the negative results that have led to the exclusion of opponents, and that these data may be disaggregated by sex, ministries and administrations. Only with all the data on the table can we have a thorough analysis of discrimination issues. The fight for equality and non-discrimination in the family, society and at work is an integral part of the major struggle for a country of progress and social justice, and the CFP will be here to stop it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u7	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u8	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary and Mr State Secretary, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members : We welcome the Government's presentation of two bills which constitute a new and significant step towards achieving equality, strengthening women's political participation and ending the waste of their qualifications in leadership. As Antonio Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations recently said : « Women need no favors», they need their rights to be exercised... [[Congrats from PS Members.]] ... and that opportunities are created to overcome structural imbalances, rooted in discriminatory and civilizational practices. We need to comply with the constitutional principle of equality between men and women. in the last legislative elections, for the first time after the approval of the Parity Law, this House reached the threshold of 33 % women, meaning that the installed culture which placed women in almost invariably 3 started to be broken. o, 6. o, and 9. the place in the candidacy lists for this sovereignty body. The bill we are considering today on parity introduces new and essential rules to overcome the perverse effects of the application of the existing law and the blockades installed to the equal participation of men and women in politics. We therefore highlight the rise of the 40 % representative threshold, as Mrs Minister has said, which has been recommended for a long time by the Council of Europe. We also highlight parity 50/50 for the first two places, historical innovation of which many are proud, Mrs. Minister. With this new law, Portugal will face more equally the new and demanding electoral cycle that begins in the coming year, since, as Maria de Lurdes Pintasilgo said, « democracy is either equal or not democracy». [[P.S.'s applause.]] The difficulties identified in the implementation of these proposals, of order, of replacement, etc. , will be easily overpassable in the speciality discussion. That they do not harm the defence of the greater good — equality between men and women in the political decision. The other proposal for a balanced representation of gender in the direct and indirect management of the State is essential for women's knowledge not to continue to be wasted. In Portugal, 60, 2 % of the population employed in higher education is female and women are majority in the Public Administration, but neither do they occupy the places of direction by majority, rather the contrary. The figures speak for themselves: in the senior executives of the Public Administration, the feminization rate is 33 % ; the general councils of higher education institutions are made up of 67 % of men and 33 % of women. It is therefore more than fair and timely to correct the thresholds of parity in the governing bodies of the Public Administration. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: If it weren't for the 2006 Parity Law, many of the 80 women sitting in this House would not be here. What is at stake is not a matter of merit, as they want to believe, because women are highly qualified. If that were the question, this law would be waived. What is at stake is that opportunities for women and men in places of political representation and leadership are not equal today. These proposals are for justice, so that we can speed up the time it takes to achieve democracy, the time it takes to achieve equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u9	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u10	Mr President, Mrs Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Mrs and Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. and Mrs Deputies: The issues of equality are often seen as "the thing of women", but, on the contrary, the issues affecting women, from wage inequality to equal representation and political participation, from inequalities in access to positions of leadership, leadership and decision-making to domestic violence and in dating or harassment, are matters of human rights and therefore concern all and all, women and men, without exception.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u12	Today it is undeniable that the participation of women and men in equality is a key factor for the development of any society. Combating the exclusion of women in all aspects of public and private life and, specifically, in the positions and organs of decision-making and leadership of the State is therefore the fundamental requirement for social transformation and the necessary path for a healthy, just and equal society. But despite all the efforts and advances that have been made in this area, in our country we continue to have an unequal reality, to organize life based on gender stereotypes and to naturalize inequality. The equality index of the European Institute for Gender Equality places Portugal in one of the last places of the European Union with regard to equality between men and women. Portugal is in 21. the place and area of power is the one in which Portugal registers the lowest rating: 33, 9 points. The reality is that women's participation, in particular in leadership and decision-making, remains a minority, although women represent 54% of higher education enrolments and 63% of graduates. When it comes to senior positions in the Public Administration, women account for only 33 % and even when they are majority in intermediate positions, which is the case of education, in which women represent almost 80% of the educational agents, as women go up in the hierarchy, as they disappear, as by magic. This tells us all about the merit argument, so many times invoked when we talk about quotas. Interestingly, it is a criterion strongly invoked when it comes to women but silent when it comes to men.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u14	It's just, sirs. and Mrs Deputies, the merit, with which so many excuse not to change anything, has only legitimacy when the conditions of departure — access and participation — are guaranteed in full equality; otherwise, it is only a cowardly excuse. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u15	And to those who think that everything is already done, that women are already in politics, that they are already autarchs, that they are already deputies and even ministers, and that it is the natural evolution of society that impresses equality between men and women, I invite them to look into reality. In more than four decades of democracy, we had 484 Ministers and 34 Ministers. Today, in Parliament, in 230 seats, we have 80 women ( 34 % ). in the 308 municipal chambers of the country, only 10 % of the chamber presidencies are occupied by women — 32 women and 276 men. The same is true of the chairmen of the parish board. And, ladies and gentlemen. and Mrs Deputies, do not delude themselves, because these 34% of women we have here today in this Chamber owe them to the 2006 Parity Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u17	Before that, and in 25 years of democracy, women Members did not exceed 10 %. After that, the rise was slow and gradual and never exceeded 20 %. It was the application of quotas to the electoral lists for the Assembly of the Republic, from 2006 onwards, which allowed these 80 women to feel in this Chamber today, if they feel 34 %. Even so, 12 years after the application of the Law, we continue to meet only the legally demanding minimum. This is more than enough proof of the need for a law to guarantee greater equality, greater parity. And what we are dealing with here is a question of balance. The ordination rules proposed for the drawing up of lists and the rules for the replacement of elements elected by a person of the same kind no longer do but respect the most basic gender balance: a woman cannot be replaced by a man, but a man cannot be replaced by a woman either.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u19	The Left Block has included in its nature the idea that gender equality is not only a women's right, it is also an essential condition for social cohesion and for the sustainability and dignity of democracy. That is why we cannot fail to follow and welcome these initiatives, which we will of course vote in favour. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Elza Pais.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u20	You now have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, Mr Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u21	Mr President, Mrs Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let us be frank, this Law, known as the Law of Quotas or the Law of Parity, has brought reasonable progress. And the PSD, so that there are no doubts, is absolutely in favour of the participation of men and women, of both genders, in political life and in public life, knowing that merit is not incompatible with the rules of parity. The best evidence of these advances is that this Parliament currently has a representative of about 34 % of women. But the government, who here today wants to be a good teacher, let me tell you, Minister, is being a very bad student. And he's a terrible student, because in 18 ministers, including Prime Minister, he has only three women, that is, 16% female representation. [[PSD applause.]] It is a huge political hypocrisy that you want for others what you do not practice in your home. [[PSD applause.]] And, Madam Minister, we are perfectly prepared to discuss gender equality and equality rules, because the PSD was the first party to indicate to the President of the Assembly of the Republic a woman...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u22	By the way, by the way! First they proposed a man! It's good to remember.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u23	...and it was the first party, of the great parties of this country, that had as leader a woman. Therefore, Mrs Minister, I think that the Council of Ministers that approved this initiative should, for these reasons, be ashamed, because it is presented here with half the representativeness of the House which wants it to approve twice as much of what it practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u25	Mr Minister, these parity rules are useful, and they are accepted, but there are only five issues that were important for the government and all parties to equalize and repond properly at the stage of the speciality. Firstly, it was important to know why the first two places require 50 % parity and the second place below is only 40 %. Why isn't it all 50 % or 40 %? This is a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u26	It's another step!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u27	Second question: does the deadline for the entry into force of this legislation relate to the adaptation and preparation which, in particular, the small municipalities have to do in order to adapt their reality to what is the new law? Third question: is or does it not necessary for a degree in the types of municipalities? Is it fair that, for a parish with 200 voters, they impose the same rules as those imposed on a parish with 20,000 voters? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] Fourth question: the comination for the non-compliant is today, with these proposals, sanctioned with a dubious rule of rejection of the list. We need to consider this, because there are less serious means. Finally, and finally, the obligation to have a replacement for people of the same kind, or who are in very different places on the list, must be avoided. If a camera president or a camera president, woman or man, renounce the mandate and then, of the same kind, come another person in fourth place, this one assumes the leadership of the municipality. No one understands this bizarreness and no one realizes that this issue completely alters the logic of drawing up lists. [[PSD applause.]] So, Madam Minister, what we want to say is this: we do not oppose the adoption of this law, what we believe is that, in the field of specialty, several proposals will have to be introduced and, therefore, we hope that all parliamentary groups and the government will welcome ours, because these, yes, introduce balances that do not exist at this time. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u28	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before giving my own opinion on the Government's proposals, I would like you to take into account that I am speaking by a party, by the Greens Ecological Party, which has, in its National Council, 46 % of women, in its National Arbitration Commission, 80 % of women, in its National Accounting Commission, 100 % of women, in its National Executive Commission, in 15 members, has 8 men and 7 women and here, in its office of support to the parliamentary group, in terms of employees, 80 % are women. This is the party, and this is the reality I'm integrating into. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe it's worth saying how we got to this number. We have reached this number because the party has a way of functioning that allows the compatibility of participation with other dimensions of people's lives and therefore the functioning of this party is essential for a space of participation for all. It is clear that by opening up this space of participation for all, this will necessarily be reflected in the composition of the lists and in other more diverse forms of intervention and participation of this political party. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who would like to say, with regard to the proposal that the Government bring to the Assembly of the Republic on the law of parity for the electoral lists, — and see, because it is important for us to go to specific cases — that, if this law were in force, for example, in the last elections, we would not have, in the Union of Carnaxide and Queijas, in the Council of Oeiras, where I participated as a candidate, the election of two women from the CDU to the Assembly of Freguesia. These two women could not have been elected because the law required the first two places to be for one man and one woman, but those two women represented, at the level of a structure of organization and intervention, two highly interventional people who were therefore chosen and agreed to integrate a list. Why not allow this reality?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u30	Because the government doesn't understand any of this!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u31	Also in the case of the City Council of the Sertã, and this only to give you two examples, the CDU presented, in the first two places, two women. Why can't you? Oh, my God! So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some practical issues to be taken into account here. On the other hand, it has already been mentioned that that rule of replacement of an electorate had to be made by another candidate of the same sex has no logic at all. The first time I was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic, I did so to replace an elected man, which means that if this rule were in force, I could not have replaced then Mr André Martins, I would have been another man on the list and my participation would have been denied. Why, S. the Minister? Oh, my God! Why? Oh, my God! There are things here that really don't make sense. On the other hand, with regard to the other proposal on parity, in the case of public administration executives, the biggest problem...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u32	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u33	I will finish, Mr. President. in this case, the biggest problem is, in fact, to have as a rule the logic of appointment and not the logic of the competition. The fact is that numbers argue that the logic of the competition generates much more balance between the participation of men and women. It is enough to look at the numbers of women and men leaders at intermediate level. This should therefore be the logic by which the government should be beaten. The Greens will not vote against these proposals but will not vote in favour either. We will abstain and, in the discussion in the field of specialty, we will see, among that which makes no sense, what can be excluded from the proposals. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u34	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u35	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In initiating this discussion on behalf of the CDS, I would say that this debate might deserve a more serene attitude, reflection on the proposals, rather than a proclaiming attitude, of those who think that with them it will change the world or solve all the essential issues. Even because this is a serious, important, relevant issue and I believe that we will not run away from a consensus if we say that, in fact, the participation of women in civic life, in political life, in administration is a structural problem, that must be solved and that should deserve attention. There is, moreover, a famous phrase that states that, for decades, a woman to reach the same point where a man would have to walk twice as much. It is a famous phrase and the Minister will surely know her. So we don't ignore the problem. With regard to the solution to this problem and how we want to solve it, there are two fundamental guidelines. One is the legislative orientation, what is presented to us, the idea that, as has been said here, if the quota scheme had not been created, we would not have so many women and that if we did not strengthen the quota regime we would not get there. This is an opinion and a defensive position, of course, for whom this is understood. The other position, which is, moreover, the majority position in the CDS — and I say majority, I do not say absolute — is that, in this kind of taxation, there is always doubt, obviously, that any imposition is always a limitation to merit or a democratic limitation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u36	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u37	... that is, it conditions the choice of voters and also conditions the right to propose the political parties themselves. The position that there is a limitation is, of course, in the case of the CDS, the majority position, but I must say that in the CDS we affirm this with a huge will. Several parties have already made their history here and now, about history, I wanted to remember that the CDS was the first party to elect a woman as a parliamentary leader; I do not know if it was the first party, but it would certainly have been one of the first to choose a woman as Secretary-General; it is today chaired by a woman; it has a Vice-President, also woman; I believe it is the only party that indicated a woman to the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic; and when we were also in the government we had no problem and we always respected, practically, a principle of parity when we indicated members of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u38	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u40	That is why we are particularly comfortable in this matter. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u41	Look at our bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u42	I must say, even, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed true that those who proclaim this matter most seem to have the greatest difficulty in fulfilling it. [[PS, BE and The Greens Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u43	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u44	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u45	In fact, it seems that if you want to impose on yourself the possibility of arriving there, because, curiously, the only party that, in terms of parity, is clearly surplus, in this same House of the Republic, is the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u46	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u47	Our current quota is more than 44 %, without any rules and without any imposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u48	Ours too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u49	Yes, Mrs Deputy, but I was thinking above all about the parties who always voted for themselves and themselves. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u50	When are you talking about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u51	Look at the PAF! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u52	But this is already a detail, a detail. Curiously,... [[Protests of BE, PCP and Os Verdean CDS-PP.]] Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the difficulty I have and ask that this be taken into account in terms of time counting. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Green Ones from PSD and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u53	Mr President, I shall deal with matters equally, don't worry.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u54	Mr President, as soon as conditions are created, I will resume my speech. [[Protests of BE, PCP and the Green Ones of PSD and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u55	Mr. Deputies, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u56	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia and Mr José Luís Ferreira, one day we and you will have the happiness of seeing The Greens contest elections alone.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u57	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u58	That day will happen and we'll see what it will be. One day we'll have that happiness. It's a stimulus! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u59	It could be next time!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u60	The truth is that the PSD has 44 %, the PCP is 40 %, the CDS exceeds 44 % and, curiously, the PS and the Left Block, the most proclaiming parties, are those that are 30 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u61	It's the custom! [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u62	And so they will need the law to have that impulse and to get there. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u63	It's always like this! [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u64	On the other hand, Mrs Minister, this bill has some points that raise doubts and I don't know if they're really going to be wrong. I want to point out two specific cases, Minister. It says the bill that it is necessary to impose this rule—and I am reading Article 1. the, paragraph 2 of the proposal for a law in the « tables of assemblies representative of the authorities ». Next, and with your permission, in Article 2. the, states : « It is understood by parity, (...) the minimum representation of 40 %(... ). Now, I may be seeing things wrong, it is possible, but if there are three members at the table, if they want to impose parity and if parity is 40%, I do not know how it does this, Mrs. Minister. It is that, in three, it can't divide anyone in the middle, it will always be a third and, therefore, it will always give 33, 3 %, in any case! [[CDS-PP laughter.]] Or did no one in the government think about this? Oh, my God! Maybe it's me I'm seeing wrong. Moreover, Mrs Minister : the bill also says that parity must be applied to the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic. The composition of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic is defined in Article 175 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. o. The Bureau shall be composed of one President and four Vice-Presidents at the outset. Who indicates the four Vice-Presidents? They are the four largest parties with parliamentary seats, which has already changed, among the parties, but they are the four greatest parties. If the Minister and the government bring us here a proposal for parity, that means... I don't know what it means! [[CDS-PP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u65	The only thing to do is the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u66	There is a party that chooses and the other party is forced to choose a woman, because the first one has chosen a man? Oh, my God! Are there parties that have the right to choose whether they want men or whether they want women?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u67	The only one who has a woman is the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u68	The smaller parties are forced to have someone of the sex that wasn't chosen up there? We're out of luck? Oh, my God! Are you going to change the Constitution? Oh, my God! Mrs. Minister, this seems to be, in addition, very badly done, and this is no longer a problem of logic, it is a problem of how it was developed. Finally, and ending, Mrs. Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u69	You really want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u70	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally, I wanted to say that there are a number of concrete issues. Some have already been raised here and we have also raised questions now. We shall vote on this matter neither in favour nor against, and we shall vote with complete freedom of vote. in our Parliamentary Group, each Member shall decide how to vote on this same matter. Then, if it is approved, we want to know: accept the government, and the majority to form, that this issue is applied not in the next elections, i.e. not in the next year's elections, but that there is a moratorium to be applied only after the next European and legislative elections? Second: they understand or do not maintain the current sanction, which seems effective,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u71	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u72	Mr. President, I'm really finishing up. Do you understand or do you not keep the current sanction, which seems effective, or raise the penalty? Thirdly: do you recognize that in small fregueses, as has been said here, often, it makes more sense to have lists only with women or more women or with more men, because not always, in a small freguess, is it possible to make such differentiation? In addition to the question of replacement, these are essential issues. I would invite some serenity in the discussion of them, in the idea that the fundamental thing is to guarantee and defend equal opportunities. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u73	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is awaiting registration. [[Pause.]] You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u74	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Equal opportunities for men and women are an essential principle of democracy which has constitutional consecration. The diplomas currently under discussion in Parliament deal with matters that are undoubtedly structural in the functioning of representative democracy and relevant for the exercise of fundamental political rights and freedoms: the increase of women's participation in political life and their representation as leaders in public administration. But first of all, we must not fail to reiterate what has been said and to denounce the political hypocrisy these legislative initiatives reveal. These bills come here to Parliament on the initiative of a government which, in 19 ministries, has only 3 women in the office of Minister. The Government, which has about 16 % female representation, presents to Parliament a body in which there is 33 % female representation, a proposal to increase the levels of such participation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : « Good preaching Brother Thomas, do what he says and not what he does». This is what's happening here today. We believe that the Government has very little political legitimacy to present these bills to Parliament. [[PSD applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PSD, a democratic, mature society is based on the balanced participation of men and women in which equal opportunities are a guarantee. Women account for about 52% of the population and have reached the labour market, universities, scientific research, judiciary, the leadership positions of themselves and what we see is that this social dynamics did not correspond to the level of representation, political and economic decision-making. Women, even more often, receive less than men, work more without being paid and have less representation in decision-making bodies. Therefore, we, the Social Democratic Party, do not deny the relevance of the law of equality in force which they consider as a very important social lever to promote women's participation and correct the imbalances of underrepresentation in decision-making bodies. But we reiterate that it is very curious that a body such as Parliament which has about 33 % women in office is discussing a law coming from a government, whose percentage of women is around 16 %. This is absolutely incongruent and is even worse when the government, in these bills, has nothing on its own, nor proposes to force itself or self-regulation. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be very interesting if the Government were to begin by setting an example, it would be an important and more serious contribution to this debate. The Social Democratic Party feels comfortable in this debate. We are a party that upholds equality of opportunity between all citizens and, as its corollary, equality between men and women. in the previous government, we adopted a resolution of the Council of Ministers, which not only established the obligation to adopt plans for equality in public enterprises of the state as it also established as a goal the plural presence of women and men in appointments for their respective positions of administration. The PSD, in the previous Government, approved the framework law of regulatory administrative entities which imposed the minimum representation of 33 % of each sex in the designation of boards of directors and the gender alternance in the position of chairman of the board of directors. The PSD also included in the law regulating the financial sector — a sector still predominantly male — the obligation to adopt a plural recruitment policy, setting objectives for the representation of men and women. The PSD approved the new legal regime of the business public sector, which established the presence of men and women in the composition of the administrative bodies, as well as the promotion of equality and non-discrimination within the framework of their social responsibility. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very comfortable in this debate, because we have gradually been working for equality by promoting it between men and women, and we are proud of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u76	We recognize, of course, that this is an unfinished task and, with regard to the initiatives under discussion, the PSD will enter the debate in the field of expertise and contribute to correct solutions that seem too inadequate and that are not even feasible. It is also clear that the 40 % threshold cannot be applied in practice in relation to the tables of the deliberative bodies of the local authorities, the composition of which is three elements, and the same is said in relation to the vowels of the fregetes, the composition of which is, in the vast majority of the country, of only two elements.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u77	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u78	I will finish, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is particularly evident today is this unsanitary contradiction. The PSD considers that the Government has no moral to propose to the Assembly of the Republic the increase from 33 % to 40 % of the female quota, when nothing tells us about itself and when in reality it has a Council of Ministers with only three ministers, in a total of 19. Well pray Friar Tomás... [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u79	For an intervention, I once again give the floor to the Socialist Party, through Mrs Susana Amador. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u80	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Today we are holding a debate of the utmost importance for democracy in our country. The truth is that equality between men and women is a fundamental task of the State as provided for in Article 9. the Constitution. Equality is a pillar of the democratic rule of law and is, above all, a condition for the sustainable development of our country, societies and the world in general. It was also under an impulse from the Socialist Party, in the 1997 Constitutional Review, that a qualitative leap was made in equality, giving the constitutional legislator a clear path to the future, in particular to develop positive actions for equality, densifying this democratic system and consolidating it. Therefore, on behalf of the Socialist Party, I would like to greet the Government for being with these two important bills to consolidate this democratic system. It is an enormous contribution to democracy! I would also like to say that, contrary to what has been stated, according to the statistics of the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), which do not lie, this government has an evolution of female participation in its composition of 30, 5 %, while the previous government of the PSD and CDS, was 18 %. So this is a leap that also shows that we are doing this heated head debate, leading inside to do more out. in this legislature, we have also taken very important and consequent steps in active equality policies. In particular, under the impetus of the Government of the Socialist Party, I stress the important bill that enshrines parity in the business sector of the State and in the listed companies of the Public Administration. We are now moving forward in the political field and in the field of parity. It is essential that we move forward in this field in the Public Administration, because here too the leadership is done on the inside. The change takes place inside, operates inside. We are defending a more simplified state, more innovative and, above all, we argue that this innovation and equality must be in the DNA of the Public Administration. Therefore, this proposal is an excellent contribution for parity to also happen within the Public Administration which we are simplifying and modernizing every day. Also in the local field, we make an important step forward. Already in this legislature, with the contribution of the Socialist Party, we revoked the amendment and exception of quotas in the smaller counties and municipalities, also considering the smaller municipalities, 85, which were outside the scope of the law, and the lower dimension, 1069, which were also the height of the law of parity. This has already been an important contribution. Our agenda is development and economic, economic growth and mainstreaming equality in all areas of our political action. Bill No 117 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) makes a huge contribution to the quantitative and qualitative level when raising the minimum threshold of each sex from 33 % to 40 %, when it requires and determines that the first two places of the lists are occupied by different sex candidates and broadening the scope, going to the fregetical boards and also to the tables of the deliberative bodies, because it is in the local political field that the law of parity has less advanced. This extension of its scope is therefore so important. As has already been pointed out, we have only, to emphasize again, 32 women camera presidents — 10, 4 % — which means, above all, that there is a work to be done and a way to go, as it is 308 municipalities; we have 370 women board presidents, in a universe of 3091 assemblies of parish. But the PS contributed, well, to the advance of some of these numbers to elect 19 women camera presidents, a total of 32, and 157 women are joint presidents by the Socialist Party. Here too we lead by example. The truth is that we need cities that are intelligent, inclusive, equal and that do not waste any skills or talent and this law contributes to this vision of a new city, of sustainable, inclusive territories. And when I say'smart cities', I mean not only the technological component, but also the part of parity participation. As regards the adjective issues that have been raised here, they should not divert the debate from what is its substance, its essence. The PS is available to improve and weigh alternatives to sanctions for non-compliance, always finding the best legal-constitutional solutions. We are always open and available for dialogue, but we cannot let adjective or technical issues prevent us from taking this leap, which is a very important civilizational step for Portugal and for our development.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u81	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u82	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that the political space belongs to all citizens. Politics is a matter of everyone and it has an impact on the life of each one of us. Promoting equality is ensuring a healthier model of society for future generations. And it is this healthier society, where everyone exercises their rights and duties, that we are defending with these bills of law, in a more humanist perspective of politics, sharing and more appropriate to the global society that we have at our disposal. We're in April! Let us once again open the doors of April in equality and freedom. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u83	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha spoke again from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : We have 52% of women and 51% of voters. What makes no sense in this is that, in decision-making bodies, in power bodies, this proportion does not occur and women disappear. That doesn't make sense! As if women — that is the argument always used — were less capable, as if they had less merit. This is when the data show us — and even without data, we all know — that this argument is false and only really occurs when it comes to placing women in certain positions or organs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u86	More than we discuss numbers, proportions or percentages of women in a particular party, body, place or time, it is important to understand and discuss whether we are all and all committed—as they seem to say, but whose acts do not correspond to the words—to really guarantee gender equality, equality, balance between men and women in public administration bodies, political power, therefore in all decision-making bodies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u88	These rules of substitution and ordering lists are trying to solve...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u89	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u90	I will now finish, Mr President. I said that these rules of substitution and ordering lists come to try to resolve the boundaries of the law that everyone knows. Even there are very good lists of the law of parity, but then the mandates of women are not assumed because they are replaced by men. Therefore, some mechanism will have to be found to ensure that these boundaries no longer occur around the law. Even to finish, I would still like to say that I do not understand why the little parishioners will not have to comply with the law, they will not have to comply with the law just like the others. Will there be, by any chance, fewer women in this parish? [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] Or will they be little fries because they don't have enough women? [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Elza Pais.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u91	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the final interventions of the proposers of the legislative initiatives under discussion. First of all, Mrs Rita Rato from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : We note that no one has opposed the concrete proposals of the PCP bill, so we admit that everyone will vote in favour of no one can be harmed for performance assessment purposes because they have enjoyed maternity and paternity rights. This is what we're talking about, when we're talking about equality, first of all. With regard to numbers, we believe that careful analysis of the number of competitive processes and opponents to competition with data disaggregated by sex and ministry will also enable us to draw more objective conclusions that are beyond the foam of the days and of the personal attacks. We also believe it is important to stress that the last report by the ISCED (Commission on Equality in Labour and Employment) on the progress of equality in work and employment, which is available, with data relating to 2016, makes the following very clear: when it depends on the qualification and the will of women, they are not underrepresented; when access to positions is not made by competition but by appointment, women are underrepresented. However, this shows that the general principle must in fact be that of the competition and the perception of which is the best candidate for the performance of a given task rather than that of the political appointment, which will be subject to other criteria. [[PCP applause.]] As regards the law of parity, we would also like to say the following: the number of women in Parliament or the number of women in government does not determine which side the policies will be made. It was not because there were more women in Parliament who, for four years, defended women's rights; on the contrary, for four years of PSD / CDS governance, women's rights are being undermined every day. It was not because there were more women in the government who defended the right to housing better. In fact, it was in the time of the Christian Assumption Minister that the law of layoffs was made, which he laid off many families in this country. [[PCP applause.]] Therefore, it is not because of the fact that there are women in the performance of a given position that it is best played. For example—and I fear - I said several times - the finance folder began to be handed over to a man, who applied cuts in wages, and then went on to be handed over to a woman, who not only continued to apply the cut in wages but also increased working hours in the Public Administration, where most workers are women.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u93	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u94	I shall end, Mr President, by saying only this: the CFP will continue to be deeply committed to fighting for the right to equality, in law and in life, in Parliament, without imposing quotas. We are aware of our conviction and our heritage in this area and we know that we do so because we have a commitment to a path of progress and social justice and we have no commitment to the imposition of a quota. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u95	To close the discussion, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We can be against or in favour of quotas, we are certainly in our right and it is a very controversial discussion also in society. But the truth is, today, that we already have some knowledge, that we already have some experience, comparative studies show that where there were quotas we reached a more balanced representation. It does not mean that we did not get there, but perhaps we had to wait many more decades to have this Parliament which is not the same as it is in the photograph which shows the first democratic Parliament after 25 April — is a well-known and very impressive photograph from this point of view, being a democratic parliament. Quotas help to make a path that I admit could be made differently and until in some organizations it has been done without them. But the truth is that we are talking about society in general, the bodies of representation and direction in general and not particular cases. What we want, in fact, is that there is a balance in the governing bodies that represents better what is the balance in society, what is the balance in our schools today, as we could see recently and even now by the number of children of both the female and the male who were today and others are still watching this discussion. in the countries that have adopted these measures, representation is today, very expressively, much more balanced. And I am not referring only to Denmark, I can refer to Costa Rica or South Africa to make this demonstration. That is the way the government is proposing in the law. Let us not confuse lateral discussions, possibly relevant. This is the law we're discussing. We can either be in favour or against her, all of you. Members will vote freely, of course, in one way or another, but this is the law we are discussing. The proposals we make here are confronted with other measures that exist in other democratic and developed countries, are realistic and balanced, without, of course, prejudice to the fact that we are open to other recommendations in the field of expertise. However, we agree that, when we are discussing people, if we come into the discussion of what is 40 % of three,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u97	It's wrong! It's not possible!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u98	... we can also get into the discussion of 50 % of five, or 33 % of four. This is a discussion that has no limit and is resolved by rounds. Or, then, you are all crazy, because this is the recommendation of the Council of Europe, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We did not invent 40%, we followed a recommendation from the Council of Europe adopted in other countries, and even there are countries that already have 50%, as you know. And 50% of a list of five also don't know exactly what it is. So there are certainly adjustments that can be made and the government is open to consider them to have a law that is effective — otherwise I am very concerned — and, Mrs and Mrs. Members, an effective law is that which has results and the result intended by this law is not to have balanced lists, but to have balanced decision-making bodies. Therefore, the replacement mechanism, as has already been said today, aims to prevent balanced lists that some time later and that may even be very short no longer be balanced, through the replacement mechanism. It's very easy to do and all the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen will know what I'm talking about. We therefore put forward two proposals which seem to us to bring some balance in different political representation bodies, aiming at a more balanced country. Of course they take account of competitive positions, because they have other mechanisms. Forty percent of gender representation is therefore not a magic number, it is the measure of our openness to gender diversity in an open, coherent, participatory, committed society, which defends equal opportunities and the essential values of democracy today. Members, they also come by here, and I do not need to quote the Secretary-General of the United Nations, because he has already been mentioned here today. I understand that it is not this that solves everything and that, often, this balanced representation also depends on other conditions that have already been mentioned, many of which have to do with conditions of reconciliation between personal and professional life, whether working life in a company, in a public administration body, in this Parliament or in the government. We certainly need to take these conditions into account, but today we do not bring up the whole debate on equality policy, nor do we think that with these two proposals we have fulfilled all the strategy we have just adopted in the field of equality and non-discrimination. Many other measures of the Government Programme will be carried out and some of them will undoubtedly create favourable contexts so that these laws are not only an opportunity for equality, but create conditions for the rights we create with them to be effectively exploited.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u99	You have to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u100	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to be approved, as we hope, these two bills will constitute a remarkable framework for deepening gender equality, equality of opportunity and democracy in Portugal. To achieve these objectives all of us, I hope, will commit ourselves and all of them will be proud. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u101	With the intervention of the Minister, we are closing the first item on the agenda. Thank you to the ladies. Members of the Government shall be present. We will move on to the second point, with the appreciation of draft resolution No 1441/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prohibit the implementation of the entry of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon into the social capital of the Montepio General Economic Bank ( PSD ), together with in general draft law No 823 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 235 / 2008 of 3 December, which establishes that, in order to make strategic and structural investments, the Bureau of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon needs the authorization of protection ( CDS-PP ) and with draft resolutions 1487 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take all the steps legally assigned to it to prevent the entry of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon into the capital of the Montepio General Economic Bank ( CDS-PP ) and 1508 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the investment policy of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon ( BE ). To present the PSD's legislative initiative, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Holy House is a secular institution that aims to support people who are in a situation of economic and social shortage. In view of this objective, the State has long reserved for it the monopoly of social games. Treasury surpluses should be used to strengthen investment in the social area or applied to investments with a low risk margin. from there the surprise in front of the news that the Santa Casa would invest high values in the capital of Montepio, financial institution in difficulties, proved today by the statements of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u104	We're facing a high-risk investment. The perplexity and opposition to this business is general. The Santa Casa requested an evaluation study on the bank's financial situation that has not been made public until today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u105	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u106	We are talking of both EUR 200 million and EUR 20 million and EUR 30 million on a day-to-day basis. Shame! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Holy House is protected by the government. If we cannot prohibit, in a rule of law, that private entities take the decision to enter the capital of Montepio, we can and should, in the Assembly of the Republic, make a request to the Government:use their guardianship powers; instruct the direction of the Holy House not to do this business.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u108	This is what the PSD is proposing. We want to believe that those who cherish the coherence of acts with words will not fail to approve our resolution, either the CDS, because they have a similar proposal, be the PCP, because in public they have already shown displeased with this business, or the Left Block, whose Members have already shown disagreement with this business. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are the most in need of this country, and who benefit from the action of the Holy House, who demand that this adventure be brought to an end. Let us hope that everyone assumes their responsibilities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u109	To present the legislative initiatives of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese were surprised today by the statements made by the Minister of Finance, in which he assumes that « if we are called to help Montepio, we must be available ». Will you be responsible for a Minister of Finance publicly speculating about a possible rescue to a specific financial institution? No, he's not responsible! But, if we have political distance and seriousness, we find that it was always under a scenario of need of Montepio that placed the possibility of the Holy House of Mercy entering the capital of that institution. The CDS is against and has never contributed to this perception. on the contrary, it was always in the weight of the exclusive interest of the Holy House and of the people who are targeted for its action — the most needy — that the CDS asked for clarifications and strongly questioned the interest, kindness and rationality of this decision. We were the first to do it, and I'm glad we did! Long goes the values, which Mr. Provider has equationed, of 200 million euros to put in Montepio. Of 200 million, it is now spoken of as 18 million. It's very different, but it's still too much money. When confronted with concrete issues for the completion of the weighting criteria, the Government has been shielded from the fact that they are private operations with institutions with autonomy. The Government, on the one hand, encourages the operation and, on the other, steals to account for the same operation. It is against this that the CDS submits a proposal for amendment to the law. According to the current law, the Bureau of the Holy House already needs government authorization for various acts, including, for example, to borrow, or to buy or sell houses. It does not make sense that a decision of this size allows a government to play shadows and escape democratic scrutiny for all reasons and also because Santa Casa benefits from a state monopoly of the game and, in this context, has funds relevant to the development of its social action. It is natural that governments feel the temptation to resort to the Holy House to solve the problems of their governance. The minimum requirement is that they assume responsibility for their actions and submit themselves to democratic scrutiny, providing accounts, whenever strategic options with particular impact on the future of the institution are involved. One thing is certain: the business of the announced entrance of the Santa Casa in Montepio is a shame. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u111	It is a shame that the Portuguese don't like, that smells bad and that involves a precious and caring institution for the best reasons. It is a very poorly explained business, in a totally inconvenient context. For this reason, and since we understand that this is also the national feeling, we also propose that the Government be recommended that, with the means at its disposal — and already within its reach — prevent this business from being carried out. The Assembly expects, in particular, the banks that have always intervened in this regard, to be consistent and to follow the CDS and also the draft resolution of the PSD in this regard. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u112	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already said it and kept it — the Holy House of Mercy in Lisbon holds the monopoly of the social game, as it has been said, and well, and I have enjoyed a wide range of tax benefits which also give it special obligations. The Santa Casa da Misericórdia of Lisbon has social obligations and cannot be a financial speculator, nor can it not even be a portfolio manager for qualified participations. We have therefore taken good note, as has already been said here, of information advanced by the Santa Casa, that the intention to invest in Montepio is far from 200 million euros initially advanced and is now less than 10 % of that value. however, the analysis that the Left Block makes these intentions of investment in Montepio are far more comprehensive than the use that PSD and CDS have made, opportunistically, in this case. The discussion goes far beyond what the right wants to limit or limit this debate. The question is about Santa Casa's obligations in terms of investment policies. Between transfer funds, between financial shares, including shares and current assets, the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa had in 2012 EUR 308 million; in 2013 EUR 365 million; in 2014 EUR 477 million; in 2015 EUR 489 million. The first question to be asked is whether it makes sense that the Holy House has increased its available assets from EUR 300 million to EUR 500 million, just in the years when the crisis was more serious in people's lives. The second question is how these assets are invested today and have been invested in the past. It is because PSD and CDS are now very outraged with 18 million euros, but Santa Casa had in furniture funds, in which they lost money in 2012, 100 million euros in 2013, 90 million euros and 209 million euros in 2014. The Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa took stock in 2014, EUR 16 million and in other participations in 2012 almost EUR 50 million, in 2013, almost EUR 50 million and in 2014 almost EUR 50 million and more EUR 18 million in Other non-discriminatory participations. The third question is this: one of the honourable Members. Do you know what is in this equity portfolio? You can guarantee the gentlemen. PSD and CDS Members who are now outraged who, in this portfolio of EUR 16 million shares, are not participating in other Portuguese banks? Can you ensure that in this portfolio of unquoted shares are not participations in private companies, which have nothing to do with the charities and the social character of the Santa Casa and participations up to those that are now proposed? That's why, sirs. Members, the question about the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa is not only the question of Montepio, it is also the question of the investment portfolio of the Santa Casa, how it regulates itself and what are the limits of the financial investments of the Santa Casa and of which the amounts that the Santa Casa must have available or must have invested in its social action. To answer these questions and not let us be deceived by the discretionary and momentary opportunism of those who want to remember, at one time or another, to question one or another investment, as it gives him more interest, and to close the eyes of others, if he is less interested, we believe that the Government must strengthen its role in the scrutiny of the investments of the Holy House, but more than that, there must be a code of conduct. We therefore recommend that the Government create, like the door already regulated by the Social Security Stabilization Fund, a legal framework for the application of Santa Casa funds, limit the available assets not invested in social action, that discipline financial investments and that discipline what kind of investments can be made and what kind of financial assets, by risk categories, so that it is very clear to everyone the limits and the transparency policy of an institution so important and that it manages as much money as the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u114	We believe that this is the only way we will have guarantees of transparency and rigour, and that is the only way we will be sure that the investment policies of the Holy House are, in fact, scrutinized and do not go to the flavor of opportunistic and discretionary interests. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u115	Is it for or against? You don't know well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u116	by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, you have the floor, for an intervention, Mr Rui Riso.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to congratulate you, first of all, on expressing my great admiration here for the fact that the arguments brought here by both the PSD and the CDS regarding the prohibition, to prevent, to limit, the investments of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, have not taken into account the profits that the Holy House itself has taken into account for the pursuit of its interests, its action and the strengthening of its action.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u118	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u119	It has already been mentioned here that, over the years, Santa Casa has had huge investments in the capital market. There is no memory, no record of the memory, about who was the minister and who was the provider when the Holy House made a very clear bet on the privatization of TTCs. There is no memory, no record, no memory of the record of when the Holy House decided to make a great investment in strengthening the capital of the Millennium BCP. There is no memory, no record, no memory, no record, no record of when the Holy House performed a real estate leasing operation. And now, it is also worth not forgetting how much real estate will stop at the hands of Mercy, through donations of many people who do so and who then also create the need of the Holy House to solve the problem of this property that they hold. Therefore, it is very clearly said and mentioned here that both the problem of the CDS and the problem of the PSD do not have to do with the investments that the Holy House of Mercy makes, yes, it has to do with who it is today Minister and probably with whom it is today Provider, because perhaps, if it were a few months ago, it would not be the problem because the Provider was another. Who knows if he'd fit in, or not! Is that what you're talking about? [[P.S.'s applause.]] In view of this, it is important to resolve and, above all, to limit and erase this permanent doubt which is being raised about those who have to manage and have always managed over so many years — and, by the way, it has managed well — the wealth and liquidity that it has at its disposal. First, it was the issue of EUR 200 million. The EUR 200 million would prevent the action of Mercy because it would absorb almost all the liquidity of Mercy. What happens is that when it goes from EUR 200 million to EUR 18 million, the pursuit of the mission and the work of mercy continues to be a major problem. in this course, several entities were heard. Mr. Provider of Mercy was heard. It was also heard by the Governor of Banco de Portugal, to rule on the financial conditions under which the bank Montepio, which met all solvency ratios, according to the statement he made, unless today the PSD and the CDS doubt the word of the Governor of Banco de Portugal. Whether or not they still believe in the Governor of the Banco de Portugal and in the supervision action of Banco de Portugal, it was good for them to clarify what they think about the action of Banco de Portugal as a supervisory body. And the Minister has also been heard about the part that rests with him with regard to the supervision, if any, of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon. We agree that all clarifications have been given about this. The CDS and PSD have olympically ignored all the clarifications that were given there and defended their position here today as if nothing had been done, as if no one had been heard, as if people...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u120	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u121	I'm done now, Mr. President. It remains, then, to know what the Socialist Party's position on this matter is. The PS will agree that there is an investment and risk protection matrix for the investments that Santa Casa makes for the guarantee and for the safety of all of us. Therefore, we defend and think that it is possible to find a risk matrix and a diversity of investments that cover the risk of other investments. This will certainly bring peace to the Holy House and bring peace to Portuguese society regarding the continuation of the mission of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u122	You now have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Tiago.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD and CDS present draft resolutions to stop the business — the strange business, it is true — between the Santa Casa da Misericórdia and the Montepio General Economic Box. But on these draft resolutions, it is important to say that there is an opportunism in this intervention of the PSD and the CDS that deserves to be underlined. It is that it sets a very large distance between the evaluation that the PCP makes about this business and the way PSD and CDS, making a completely different assessment, use the business as an instrument of casting and as one of the elements for its parliamentary "numbers". The PSD does not persuade its own leader, the PSD and the Santa Casa da Misericórdia do Porto, not to enter the capital of Montepio General, but by force, to convince the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa and the Government not to enter the capital of Montepio General. Therefore, they cannot convince their leaders, but they want in the Assembly of the Republic to impose their vision of the Holy House of Mercy and the General Montepio. The CDS, when Bagão Félix gave orders to the Santa Casa da Misericórdia to buy shares in the capital increases of the Millennium BCP and other companies, including the insurance area, did not say anything, besides Applause and very well thought that the Santa Casa da Misericórdia served as a security network for private businesses. What is at stake is the following: either the PSD and the CDS have nothing against the Holy House of Mercy to be used as a financing tool for other businesses, as in fact they have always done throughout the history of the PSD and the CDS; or, then, there is another possibility, that it is the PSD and the CDS do not want strong mutualism, do not want a Montepio General, and find that there is no space in the Portuguese financial system for a bank that does not belong to a large economic group. The PCP raises the issue in a completely different way. It is true that the PCP criticizes this business, it is true that there are several doubts about this business that must be clarified and it is true that this is a business whose rational is not fully perceived. Therefore, from the PCP, these doubts will certainly be expressed in the way in which we will vote on the projects submitted by all parties, namely those of the PSD and the CDS, and also the draft resolution of BE, which will, at the outset, have our support on the part of the PCP. But, what the PCP understands is that none of the projects goes to the root of the problem, none of the projects goes to the fundamental question, which is that the Montepio General Economic Box should be at the service of the members of the Mutualist Association, should have its capital unique and exclusively submitted to the Mutualist Association and should not have been converted into an anonymous society to be now subject to business or to the purchase of shares by third parties. Therefore, safeguarding the interests of mutualists should be the first concern, even to safeguard the bank's position in the financial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u124	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u125	I'm done now, Mr. President. Finally, of course, it would be absolutely essential to take into account that the Mutualist Association is currently headed by figures whose suitability for banking management has already been questioned and that all the business is being designed with the participation of these figures that have already managed the Economic Box, which have placed it in a delicate situation and which, at what all shows, have managed a mutualist bank exactly by the same cylinders as the private management of the bank in Portugal and which has so far been ruinous, both for the banks and then, mainly for the public, for the State Budget, which has been obliged to pay for these adventures. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u126	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is at stake here are two, and only two, initiatives that can recommend to the Government not to carry out this business. All parliamentary groups could have put forward initiatives, but only the PSD and the CDS had initiatives in this regard. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u128	Why would it be?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u129	Therefore, what is at stake here is whether the other banks can afford this business for their complicity silence or if they agree to be against it, if they agree to prevent it from happening and recommend it to the government, which is what is at stake. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u130	The Holy House established as criteria, first, the fair price, and second, the hearing of internal entities, of the Holy House itself. What's going on? Fair price is not! Even in the 18 million, the criterion used is the accounting criterion that is in the Mutual Association and that has nothing to do with fair prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u131	Let's ask the Francisco Sá Carneiro Institute for an evaluation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u132	On the second question, of the entities that have been heard, the Brotherhood of the Mercy of São Roque — said by Mr Provedor — has already expressed its opinion against this business, because much of the population is also against it. And that is what is expected of this House, approving these resolutions. With regard to the draft law that the CDS here submitted so that in the future, the Santa Casa should request permission from the Government for structural business that has a special impact on its future, nothing has been said. Our expectation is that, of course, all banks will recognize the importance of this initiative and will be able to join it and follow the CDS in its proposal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u133	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to close the debate on this second item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is only natural that an institution which has cash surpluses apply them, and must do so in order to make capital profitable, so that it can continue its activity naturally and safely, in particular in this case, a highly relevant social activity. What is put, in this case, on the table is a high-risk investment, as the Minister of Finance has already acknowledged.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u135	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u136	It's not just the question anymore! Today, in the interview Mr Mário Centeno gave, it became clear to everyone that we are facing a high-risk investment. And then we understand that the Holy House, because of its particularity in the social sphere, cannot put money that can come to be necessary to safeguard and help those who need high-risk investments. Very close here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Star, in two buildings that were former Armed Forces hospitals, acquired by the Holy House to be recovered for continued care, the works are stopped! If you have cash surpluses and want to apply them, apply them here, for the benefit of those who need, rather than go to adventure, questioning what their purposes are. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u137	That's a problem with the Holy House!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u138	And tomorrow, in a very clear way, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will see who is in favour and who is against the adventure in which the Holy House wants to dive its money and the money of those who most need it in this country. Let us hope that common sense and responsibility will prevail in this House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u139	We now move on to the third item on the agenda, the joint assessment of draft resolutions 1452/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures in the area of rare diseases and disability, promoting greater support and protection for patients with rare diseases and disabilities as well as their caregivers ( CDS-PP ), 1555/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures in the area of rare diseases and disability ( NAP), 1506 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the regulation of the profession of genetic adviser ( BE) and 1507 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government support measures for people with rare diseases ( BE ). To present the initiative of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The concern of the CDS with vulnerable people with disabilities and with rare diseases has resulted in multiple legislative initiatives aimed at promoting global, integrated policies and the integration of a group of people whose rights cannot be ignored. Both in the area of disability and in the area of rare diseases, our initiatives have aimed to bring more and better answers to a significant group of our citizens. Today, we are very proud to present a set of more than 30 measures ranging from the work area to the area of education support and more and better health measures for this group of people. These are measures that we hope can bring together, here, broad consensus, which aim to promote greater support for people with rare and disabled diseases and also increase support for their caregivers. in the CDS, we have a consistent course in this area and we would like to recall the recommendation for the creation of the card for the special protection of patients with rare diseases, which was approved unanimously in this House in 2009, and also the presentation of the integrated strategy for rare diseases and the identification of national reference centers for rare diseases, which were relevant steps in this integrative route. It should be recalled that, at the end of March, the annual operational plan of the Integrated Strategy for Rare Diseases was not yet known. We believe that, at least for that reason, it was good that we had, from the outset, presented this initiative, because this publication was immediately published. Unfortunately, this year's plan is vague and omitted in relation to a number of relevant aspects, such as the card of the person with rare disease or the national registration in this area. The CDS has, for years, been calling attention to the situation of informal caregivers. We have not come to this debate now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have called attention to the meritorious work and tasks that develop caregivers and to the need for greater support. Unfortunately, this government has taken some time to approve the status of the caregiver, makes promises, but fails to these real heroes of the daily life. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u141	With this pioneering initiative, we want to give a voice to many who have difficulty in making themselves heard, we want to underline the path that a society of solidarity, advanced and modern must make in these matters of support to the most fragile. It is integrating, taking care and supporting that we promote dignity and that we fight for inalienable rights of people who are first citizens and who lack more support from the State. We are proud that we have moved forward with the measures presented here today, and we expect extended support for them. We want to end by leaving our tribute to these people, their caregivers, and telling them that their lives are worth and that they are inspiring to us. We also want to thank the work of civil society institutions that support people with disabilities and rare diseases and tell them that they can continue to rely on the CDS. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u142	You now have the floor to present draft resolution No 1505 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Rare diseases are considered to be those that have a prevalence of less than five out of 10,000 people, estimated to exist between 5000 and 8,000 different rare diseases. Patients affected by these diseases face similar difficulties in seeking a diagnosis, relevant information and appropriate guidance for qualified professionals. The diagnosis is, as a rule, delayed and complicated to perform, and may take several years and require several consultations in different specialities. In many cases, rare diseases are not diagnosed due to lack of scientific and medical knowledge. Therefore, being certain that the degree of knowledge of a rare disease determines both the speed with which it is diagnosed and the quality of medical and social coverage, we propose, with the initiative we are discussing today, that specific training on rare diseases be given to health professionals, that is, effectively, in the specialized scientific research for better knowledge of rare diseases and new forms of treatment and that the national register of rare diseases be created, which will enable us to know how many patients exist and where in the country they are, as a way to improve access to health and to ensure that supply is appropriate to existing needs. In view of the psychological fragility of patients with rare disease and persons with disabilities, we propose that regular psychological monitoring of these and members of the family may be ensured and that the current system of allocation of support products be reviewed, making it more agile, since this has been shown to be too slow and bureaucratic, making it difficult to access products by those who need them. Finally, we also advocate the speedy publication of the annual plan for 2018 produced under the Integrated Strategy for Rare Diseases, which will enable the knowledge of priorities for this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u144	Mr Moisés Ferreira now has the floor to present draft resolutions Nos 1506 and 1507 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Rare disease is a disease with low prevalence. As has already been said, they affect up to five people in every 10,000, often less than this, but their low quantitative expression is inversely proportional to their qualitative expression in these patients. They are, in their overwhelming majority, serious, chronic, debilitating, highly incapacitating diseases. They are mostly hereditary, 80 % genetic. All these patients face, without exception, a huge problem, lack of knowledge: lack of knowledge that delays diagnosis, lack of knowledge that conditions health care, lack of knowledge that limits access to treatment, lack of knowledge that limits the development of new treatments, lack of knowledge about prognosis and disease evolution, lack of knowledge about ways to care, for example. These and other problems were raised in a debate held here in the Assembly building of the Republic last March, and it is to respond to these problems that the Left Block brings the discussion of two legislative initiatives. The first initiative is to create and regulate a new profession, that of the genetic adviser. It is a proposal taken as central by researchers in the area and by organizations that also intervene in this area. How important is this proposal, the creation and regulation of this new profession? It is that the genetic advisor — who already exists in many other European countries — can, among other things, promote information and knowledge among patients, family members, employers and society; evaluate genetic risks, make family history, which can also promote more rapid identification and diagnosis in many other situations; better inform about the prognosis of the disease; refer to, passing redundancy, reference centres; raise the needs of each patient in particular, of each group of diseases in particular, and mobilize resources to respond to these needs. In addition to this proposal for the creation of a new profession in Portugal, we bring another one in which we make several recommendations to intervene directly in what are health policies oriented to rare diseases. We propose that a better and better linkage be promoted between institutions of the National Health Service, universities and research centres for which patients or groups of patients may be referred, thus improving access to treatments, therapies and examinations, and that these public research centres and these public universities that already develop research in the area of rare diseases may, themselves, also be reference centers, taking into account the accumulated knowledge they have. We propose the appreciation and promotion of research in this area, precisely to accumulate knowledge, which is so lacking. We propose the strengthening of training, for example doctors specialists in medical genetics and higher health technicians in the genetics sector and a better allocation of human genetic centers in Portugal. We propose that the number of reference centres be extended and that reference centres exist for all rare disease groups in Portugal, as well as that the form of treatment prescription be reviewed and that all 'orphan medicinal products' approved by the Medicine Agency should be made available free of charge. These are the proposals we have made. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to tell the CDS-PP, about the status of the informal caregiver, which you have already mentioned here, that you excuse continuing to recommend it to the Government. There is, in the Assembly of the Republic, a bill of the Left Block for the creation of that statute. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] There is, in the Assembly of the Republic, a working group that was created after the presentation of the bill of the Left Block for the creation of this statute...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u146	Mr President, the Bureau has been distracted with time, but it has to end.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u147	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that the Left Block is certainly open to the proposals that the CDS-PP has to submit. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u148	It wasn't the Bureau that got distracted, so it's my responsibility. Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Rare diseases, in the essence of their definition, are characterized by the specificity of symptoms that they present and by the diversity of disorders that show from disease to disease, and even from disease to disease, even if they suffer from similar conditions. It is estimated that there are currently between 5000 and 8000 distinct rare diseases affecting 6 % to 8 % of the total population, or, in other words, between 24 and 36 million people in the European Community and about 600 000 people in Portugal. These diseases, which affect a very small number of people, are also those that are less target of study and clinical investigation, which often leads to reduced therapeutic progress associated with their treatment. This taboo subject up to relatively few years ago is presented today as a broad field of work in the field of public health. Common situations such as delay and failure in diagnosis, lack of information about the disease, lack of reference for qualified professionals, lack of availability of quality care and social benefits, weak coordination of hospitalization and external consultation care, reduced autonomy and difficulty in integrating into the world of work lead to greater frailty of the patient, greater dysfunction in the social and family environment and greater psychological, social, cultural and economic vulnerability, especially in the most vulnerable fringes of society. Recognizing the consequences of rare diseases in the lives of individuals and their families and the cumulative impact they have on health and social systems, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the European Union have emphasized the importance of prevention and early diagnosis of these diseases. As a result of this concern, each Member State was invited to implement a national plan or strategy to address these diseases. In Portugal, it was implemented, through Norma 001 / 2018 of 9 January, the rare disease card and is also set up an interministerial commission to implement the Integrated Strategy for Rare Diseases 2015 - 2020, based on intersectoral and interinstitutional cooperation where priorities in the global approach to rare diseases are re-equarated, bringing together contributions, competences and resources from all relevant sectors, in order to stimulate, even progressively, a real change in the complex conditions of people suffering from these diseases, besides, as provided for in the Order No 2129 - B / 2015 of 27 February. According to the Intercalar Report on the Implementation of the Integrated Strategy for Rare Diseases for 2017 presented by that committee, goals are set to ensure that people with rare diseases have better access, quality in health care and treatment, based on the evidence that science has been producing, and greater speed and variety of social responses adapted to each case. Thus, it is proposed to develop and improve the coordination of care, access to early diagnosis, access to treatment, clinical and epidemiological information, research and social inclusion and citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is still a long way to go, and the Socialist Party, as well as the Government, is aware of this. An evolved society has as its cornerstone diversity through the promotion of equality. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u150	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u151	I'm done now, Mr. President. To treat the difference in a specialized way is to see in this stone the construction of citizenship. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u152	Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are talking about rare diseases today, but which are, in fact, only rare in name. Nearly 800 000 Portuguese live with a rare disease, of which 80 % are of genetic origin and more than 50 % reach children, or are diagnosed at paediatric age. They are often serious diseases, as we have heard, are incapacitating, chronic, sometimes degenerative, with a profound negative impact on the quality of life and on the life expectancy of these children. Despite reaching a large proportion of the population as a group of diseases, there are about 8,000 individual diseases with very few patients, and these few patients have specific needs that require specific health care. But often the therapeutic options are not available because the participation of "orphan medicines" is delayed or simply there is no interest in investing in a disease with few patients. These knowledge deficits and scientifically proven therapeutic options, resulting from the rarity of these conditions, are associated with the actual suffering of people living with rare disease and disabilities, and not only of these patients but also of their relatives, who 24 hours a day and 7 days a week care for the child or fully dependent adult, leading to situations of fatigue, exhaustion and sometimes to feelings of guilt, even if unjustified, for not being able to do more for their child, for their daughter, for their family. As has been said here, the government has promised that by the end of 2017 we would have the status of the approved informal caregiver, but so far we have seen nothing. Therefore, the PSD welcomes the initiatives presented by all parties, even the draft resolution of the Left Block on the regulation of the profession of genetic adviser, in which the Social Democratic Party still raises some doubts, showing itself open to debate, because it recognizes the need to have a discussion within the framework of what is the multidisciplinary approach of the rare disease. The truth is that the only real political initiative this country has ever seen in the field of rare diseases was the previous government, which implemented the Integrated Strategy for Rare Diseases. Mr André Silva, from the NAP, came to demand the 2018 action plan, and it is normal that he has not noticed that he has already been approved. It is that they are two pages full of nothing: there is no responsible coordinator, there are no targets, no resources, no action and we are left with no response patients. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will be here as a Social Democratic Party to support any initiative that goes in line with what the PSD has always defended in this field, which reinforces the idea that there is a European reference network of which Portuguese institutions are part, to have access to an early diagnosis, to access to therapy, to collect clinical and epidemiological data in a transparent manner, to bet on research and development and to measures of inclusion and citizenship focused on quality of life and to improve the state of life of patients and their families. In conclusion, we can only regret the inaction of the government. Even yesterday, the Minister of Health said he wouldn't demagogy children's lives...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u154	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u155	I'm done now, Mr. President. I was saying that the Minister of Health said that he would not demagogy with the lives of children, but frankly, with regard to children with rare disease, there is neither demagogy nor anything, because clearly they are not a priority, and this cannot be accepted by the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u156	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Most rare diseases are serious, often incurable and highly incapacitating, and treatments, because they are not profitable for pharmaceutical groups, are scarce. There are between 5000 and 8000 rare diseases and each of these diseases affects less than 0, 1 % of the population. It is estimated that in Portugal, rare diseases as a whole affect about 6 % to 8 % of the population, i.e. close to 800 000 people, so we can even say that it is no longer rare to have a rare disease. The main difficulties affecting family members and caregivers of people with rare diseases are: difficulties in access to early diagnosis, resulting in the problem of access to genetic tests; difficulties in access to treatments, particularly new treatments and therapies, with situations in which there is scientific evidence on the effectiveness of the medicine, there is clinical prescription, but this is not administered because hospital administrations make authorisations impossible on economic issues; difficulties in the economic context, due to increased costs of access to health care, as well as loss of income, because many have to stop working to care for patients. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is necessary to recognize that the Integrated Strategy for Rare Diseases adopted in 2015 proved ineffective in responding to the needs of the most vulnerable and less numerous. As far as the Strategy is concerned, it provides for the existence of a coordination of care through an inter-ministerial, inter-sectoral and inter-institutional articulation, however the link between the three Ministries is very fragile. This fragile link is not the fact that funding is, as it could only be, one of the biggest problems, because there is a need for sufficient and specifically allocated funding to the Strategy. We can even say that many of the millions given to banks would help to alleviate the suffering of those with a rare disease. It now surprises the CDS with this project that combines rare diseases, informal caregivers, addictions, etc. , which devalues each of these situations, and more importantly, it is important to know why the CDS would not have taken any action when it had heavy responsibilities in the government. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Given the increasing expression that rare diseases have in Portugal, it is necessary to know and intervene effectively in these diseases. For PCP, treatments or therapies that scientific evidence proves to be effective should be available so that they can be addressed to those who need them. It is essential that the State ensure that people with rare diseases receive the best health care, improving their access and quality. The cure may even, in many situations, be almost non-existent, but improving the quality of life and survival of people with rare diseases is always possible. in this sense, people with rare diseases have the right, like anyone else, to health protection and the best available care. The State cannot leave out its responsibility, and it must strengthen the National Health Service with the creation of technical and therapeutic resources, so that no one is excluded from it. at present, rare diseases are also a social challenge and it is imperative to respond to the needs of the most vulnerable and less numerous. Rare diseases are a problem of few that are, after all, many and should be a responsibility of the State, in fulfilling its obligation, to ensure the diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of all people, in particular those who suffer from rare diseases. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u158	To conclude this debate, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u159	To conclude, Mr President, what we were saying is that today is indeed a day to point out. We only regret — and I would very much like to leave this note — that the attention given by the House, and even from the media point of view, to these matters is inversely proportional to that which is the impact these issues have on the lives and day-to-day lives of so many Portuguese families. We deeply regret that. We wanted to say that it is not a race of popularity or wearing prized shirts, but, in favour of truth and seriousness, in fact, the CDS has a course of pride in this matter, having been the first to present proposals in the areas of support to caregivers. It is indissociable to talk about people with rare diseases without talking about their caregivers, because they are obviously a binomial that we cannot separate. What matters here — and the CDS will not exempt itself from its responsibilities — is to require the government to fulfil its promises, which will move on to action. And what matters also is that we can have a broad consensus to take care of people's lives and I believe that for many of us, who are in politics, this is the first mission. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u160	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of the following diplomas: in general, of draft law No 798/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Renewal and extension of post-doctoral scholarships until compliance with Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August, as amended by Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( PCP ) ; draft resolution No 1354 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government guarantee the transitional financing of doctoral researchers whose scholarships have ceased pending the application of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 ( CDS-PP ) ; generally of Bill No 777 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the extension of research scholarship and scholarship contracts in scientific and similar research projects ( PSD ) ; and also generally also in draft law No 816 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension and renewal of post-doctoral research grants until the publication of the outcome of the tenders provided for in Article 23. the Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( BE ). For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first word for scientific research fellows, post-doctoral fellows, real science workers who, with their commitment and persistence, have given shape to the fight for rights that should have long been recognised: right to a contract of work, right to stability, access to basic labour rights. Today we have another stage of this struggle with the contribution of the CFP. We have stated and continue to say that it is urgent a structural change to integrate all scientific workers into the research career, ending from time to time with these precarious links. We walk to broad steps for August 2018, end of the deadline of the transitional rule of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016, modified by demanding parliamentary assessment process in the Assembly of the Republic, a process for which the PCP contributed much. Since August 2016 and July 2017, which is the date of the law amended by parliamentary assessment, the truth is that only 52 contracts — 52 contracts! — were sent to the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation) for financing, with 1539 pockets signalled for this purpose. This situation, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable! In addition to several manoeuvres that have now been remembered by some institutions, attempting to make contracts to be made by private law associations, with which the fellows have never had any relationship or activity, as is the case with IST-ID ( Association of the Higher Technical Institute for Research and Development ) and the Faculty of Science ID ( Association of the Faculty of Science for Research and Science Development ), in clear violation of Article 23 ( 2 ). the, adds another very serious problem, which is the loss of yield of several post-doctoral pockets, whose projects and scholarships have ceased or are about to cease, without opening the contests of the transitional standard.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u162	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u163	In view of this reality, which cannot be imputed to these pockets, and whose resolution would have been easily found by mere compliance with the law and by the timely opening of the invitations to tender, it is urgent to give an answer which prevents these workers from being pushed out of the national scientific and technological system, also preventing them from being outside the scope of the transitional standard because they have actually been without resources, without income. The CFP also considers that this whole process deserves further attention, deserves monitoring and follow-up by the General Inspection of Education and Science, especially in a context where the Bolseiro Provider seems to be partly uncertain. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposals that the CFP brings here are intended to ensure that, in fact, these people are not left unanswered, that these people are not without income, that their rights are met and that there is a solution that must be enforced by the law, not only by the institutions, but also by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, to do all the necessary diligence and to ensure that the law is effectively complied with. Here are the proposals of the CFP. Of course, there are other projects under discussion. We have some doubts that we can not fail to express in relation to the PSD project, because there are some situations of broader coverage, but, in any case, we also want to hear what will come out of this discussion today, and we are open to it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u164	For an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the pockets here in the galleries. Today we discuss three draft laws and a draft resolution which, in essence, deal with the same matter: they intend to guarantee the conditions for the doctoral fellows to access the provisions of Law No 57 / 2017, in accordance with the requirements established, specifically in the transitional standard. The essential point is that this transitional standard laid down two deadlines for opening tenders by higher education institutions: 31 December 2017 and 31 August 2018, of which two dates were included in an amendment proposed by the Socialist Party at the time of the parliamentary review for which we were all summoned. It follows that the first deadline, 31 December 2017, ended without opening the expected tenders. And in fact, as Mrs Ana Mesquita said, of the 3000 contracts announced by the Government, little more than 50 are implemented. On these deadlines, Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education stated at the end of a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 14 December: « Universities do not have to meet the deadline », adding that « an opinion will be issued for the institutions, which will be published on the FCT website, explaining that the nature of the deadlines of the law is guiding ». In other words, the Minister, incomprehensiblely, annulled the letter of the law and the opinion is in fact published on the FCT website, and in it can read the following point : « in the specific case, two deadlines are established, 31 December 2017 and 31 August 2018, for the opening of competitive procedures. in this context, it seems perfectly sustainable that the longer term consumes the shorter deadline, so truly the final deadline is 31 August 2018 ». Again, this seems to overlap with the letter of the law. Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education explained at the same time that, as for researchers who in the meantime would have lost access to the stock exchange or were left without it until 31 December 2017, it was already established that all units of researchers could request a reinforcement from the FCT, which seems to have not happened at least in a generalized manner. It seems to us that, given the above-mentioned opinion, which is from the Legal Centre of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, it would be reasonable to apply the same safeguard principle, announced by the Minister, up to that longer term, such that it is the real deadline — 31 August 2018. In other words, it will be reasonable to ensure that the FCT gives effective budgetary reinforcement to all units with researchers whose scholarship has ceased, strengthens the transitional character until 31 August 2018 or until the completion of the competitive procedure. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is too long a history of the conception of the diploma and very complex. It is expected that your application will end up having an end which, I say, is not happy, but at least fair. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u166	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not the first time, but I hope it is the last time, that this issue is discussed in this plenary. The Government took the initiative to combat the precariousness of research fellows, researchers and post-doctoral students. The various parties joined together, this House joined to defend them, changed a government initiative, making it more real, according to what the promise was and not what the government was actually trying to give. This House has an almost unanimous position in wanting to resolve this issue. The State budget for this year has the money available to combat this problem, but above all to solve it. The government still owes around EUR 16 million to the institutions for last year. The Government and the FCT have not yet paid the funds for this year's projects, which are all late. The institutions have lost confidence in the Government and the Minister of Finance and what we want to do with these proposals—in a large way, that is what they all defend—it is to make what the Government has proposed real again. The central idea of all the proposals is that, with money available reserved for this matter, those whose contracts are ending or have already been completed and for whom the institutions have not yet opened their tenders may have their grant extended or even recovered in case they have already lost it, because there is no alternative on the public market for their tenders. This is what's happening. The government promises something, but it doesn't, institutions don't trust the government. It is ridiculous — this is even embarrassing for the rule of law and pregnancy for the government and the country — of public institutions and universities to open competitions with the reservation of, if the money is not transferred, have a suspensive effect. In other words, public institutions open competitions so that these people can have access to a contract and actually say: "We hire, but if the State does not pay this has a suspensive effect." This is the desperation of those institutions, who want to comply with what is in the law, who want to meet the needs of these people, but who have no confidence in the government or the FCT to achieve it. That's where we got here! It is regrettable when the rule of law is disrespected in this way. It is a case of those in which there is money in the State budget, there is the law for it, there is unanimity in Parliament to solve, but both the FCT and the government do not pay what they should, they do not put money there and do not even contract. The government doesn't do what it promises. It concluded by saying: for institutions to open these vacancies they must either have the money available or, then, a contract with the State and with the FCT to do so. at this moment, they don't have any money or any contract. Why? Because the government does not want to do it or because, once again, as in health, it is the Minister of Finance who does not leave, and so we have a situation that is regrettable, because the garrot of finance continues to suffocate not only health, but also science and education. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u168	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating all the precarious fellows who today accompany this debate in the Assembly of the Republic, and it is precisely from their testimonies that this intervention begins. Carla, 40 years old, 10 years of post-doctoral scholarships, leading group in her laboratory, attracted to her university more than two million euros. John, 35 years old, precarious researcher, orients doctors and masters despite his scholarship not serving these functions. Teresa, 45 years old, was a doctor's scholarship, jumped into a post-doctoral scholarship, emigrated because science was not an investment, but rather an expense. He came back, because hope is the last to die. Today, again, pocket, it's about to run out of the bag. Like Teresa, João and Carla, thousands of post-doctoral fellows eagerly await the conclusion of their contracts under the scientific employment diploma amended here in this Parliament. The truth is that time does not wait and these researchers are today in their laboratories and research centers from the days until the end of their stock exchange or even working as a stockbroker, afraid of losing the place that, administratively—sees—is gone, but which is still a permanent necessity. These are the ones that guarantee the best places in the famous rankings that the rectors both use to value themselves, but this flower in the lapel no longer serves to respect the dignity of these professionals, scientists and researchers. They can't be forgotten! Universities, science, knowledge and country need you. The Block does not open the hand of that. For us, no one stays outside in the fight against precariousness. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Therefore, we propose here today the extension of all the scholarships that have already ended or are ending, but these researchers continue and are, always, under Law No 57 / 2017. I finish, still taking advantage of the flowers on the lapel, as Geraldo Vandré said in the music not to say that I haven't talked about the flowers yet, who doesn't expect the time. We will not expect it to happen, we will not wait for a good response from the FCT, because we know that we cannot count on it, but we can hope that there is a majority in this Parliament to solve the problem of thousands of researchers who eagerly await entry into the tables and a decent employment contract. The country needs you! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u170	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Passos has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Investment in knowledge is a priority taken by the current government towards institutions, people and the future, having been created and approved in the Council of Ministers the agenda « Commitment to Knowledge and Science », which defines the strategy of action for the valorisation and affirmation of Portuguese science at national and international level for the period 2016 - 2020. in this context and at the initiative of the government, the diploma of scientific employment was approved in 2016, a regime to combat job insecurity in scientific research, which has been further and strengthened in the Assembly of the Republic with the votes of the parliamentary majority. Today, a process of revaluing scientific employment is under way, replacing fake scholarships with contracts with career integration prospects. This is a work that has deserved the strong commitment of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. The fight against the precariousness of scientific employment involves many institutions and many people and it is a complex process. The application of this regime has not always been as uniform and speedy as we could expect in all institutions. It is important to ensure that, if time limits are exceeded, this does not prejudice the achievement of the objectives of the scientific employment diploma. That is why, as early as November 2017, the Minister of Science issued an order for the FCT to facilitate host institutions the solutions that allow their doctoral fellows to extend this relationship until the implementation of the competitions provided for in the diploma of scientific employment. The FCT followed this direction by accepting the requests for extension of the grant presented in this table. The proposals submitted by the PCP and the Left Block may lead to the strengthening of the legal framework of this solution and, to this extent, without prejudice to improvements to be made in the field of expertise, the PS looks positively at the general lines of these initiatives. In contrast, what the CDS proposes to recommend to the Government does not ensure that the mobilization of additional resources is effectively applied in resolving the problem identified. It does not even recommend the extension of the scholarships. Also the PSD project is not at least focused on solving the problem we have been identifying. in reality, neither the preambular nor the proposed articulated define, with a minimum precision, which situations to be covered, to such an extent that in the PSD proposal even service provision contracts would be covered, at the same time that the re-establishment of contracts which had ceased by agreement between the parties or even by failure to comply with the duties of one party would be imposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u172	You've outlived your time, Your Honor. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u173	I will now finish, Mr President. Furthermore, the PSD project would require the State to assume responsibility for grants that are not even financed either directly or indirectly by the FCT. These are the considerations that will guide our sense of vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u174	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not true that the only responsibility is the Government or the FCT. We look at the accounts reports from the major universities in the country, which are precisely those where the number of precarious fellows has increased in recent years, and we see positive budget balances of millions of euros, but that is exactly where the greatest difficulty in opening these tenders is. If it is true that the FCT and the Government must respond to universities, in terms of guaranteeing funding, it is also true that, in a rule of law, we cannot admit that there is a State within the State. And today what happens is that the rectors behave clearly as sheriffs of a parallel state that does not respond to the laws of the Republic, which often does not answer truth in education and science committees...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u176	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u177	This project also serves to ensure that everyone, whether a rector or a precarious purse, responds to the law of the country and responds to Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u178	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u179	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake here is very simple: we all want to solve the same problem, but the only party that wants to try to save the soul of the government is the Socialist Party. There are several proposals here and they all go in the same direction, although in different ways. The Socialist Party has not even seen the PSD project, only received the Minister's note as the speech is aligned. What we want to know, and what these people also want to know, is whether the Socialist Party will approve these projects, if it will merge them and find a solution for the government to pay what it owes to the fellows,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u180	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time, I would like to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u181	... to institutions and thus solve the problem, because we are all full of rhetoric, full of promises, full of advertisements and no problem solved. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u182	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the speech of Mrs Ana Passos of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I can only say that she reminded me of the time of the State budget. For the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, it is not interested in solving the problem, it is interested in keeping the majority in parliament quiet and quiet. The proposals presented here are in exactly the same direction and propose exactly the same solutions, particularly in the case of the CDS, the draft resolution which has a single, simple and clear point. The reason why the Socialist Party does not want to approve this proposal is simply because it comes from the CDS, because it does not matter to you, but it is not good in photography. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u184	Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude this discussion, I would like to say that, for the CFP, it cannot be the weakest side, the workers, to pay the fables of the bad will of the institutions to comply with the law, not so little the government's inertia in enforcing the law, there has to be a solution here. A solution needs to be found because people can't get no answer, that's why the PCP has availability. The CFP by bringing this debate, by making this agenda, by making the presentation of this bill actually tries to find concrete solutions so that these people continue to have incomes and can effectively have access to the one who is their right to a contract of work, to a stable bond, to a life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u186	Mrs. Members, having no further inscriptions, I should like to close the debate of the projects of lein.o 798, 777 and 816 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and draft resolution No 1354 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). We still have draft resolution No 1498/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Regulates the general information security policy of the Assembly of the Republic ( President of the HR ) to which no time has been allocated. Thus, Mr. Secretary, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, will proceed to the reading of file which has now entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u187	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 836 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Transparency in public support to the financial sector ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; and draft resolutions 1511 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Stability Programme 2018 - 2022 and National Reform Plan ( CDS-PP ) and 1512 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Social support for workers in COFACO, on the island of Pico ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-19.u188	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow, Friday, at 10 a.m., and the agenda includes the discussion of draft resolution No 1502 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Portugal 2020 and its reprogramming ( PSD ) and, at the end of the debate, the statutory votes. Good afternoon, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 34 minutes.]]
