ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 9 minutes.]] I ask the officials of the Authority to open the galleries. We will continue with the general assessment of Law Proposals Nos 155 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2019 and 156 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2019. Let's, with some delay, start our work. Mr Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members: For these days the Government presents in this House the fourth budget of this Parliament. This is a budget which, on the one hand, pursues the history of the previous ones, a budget of correct accounts based on realistic projections, which allows the programme which we proposed three years ago to be concluded: to recover the income of families, to reduce unemployment and to resume economic convergence with Europe. All this coexistes and is only possible with strict management of the public accounts, which enabled the reduction of deficit and debt to historical levels, also lowering the cost of financing the economy. It is this rigorous financial management that creates the conditions for the construction of the future. Solid accounts are the foundation on which the renewed bets on housing, collective transport, improving public services and strengthening public investment are based. It is therefore a budget for continuity and future, a budget for the completion of a programme and the opening up of a new cycle. The course that has brought us so far recognises the importance of companies in economic growth and job creation. Like previous budgets, this budget seeks to create conditions for Portuguese companies to continue to invest, create jobs and increase their competitiveness. in these three years the companies were stronger, their financial autonomy increased to 37, 4 %, their indebtedness dropped to 133 % of GDP ( Gross domestic product ) and exports to 45 % of the wealth created in Portugal. Private investment grew in 2017 more than 9 % and in the second quarter of this year again reached 2008 levels. Labour productivity finally increased by 6 %. Companies are therefore stronger, less indebted and more competitive. The proposal for a State budget law remains committed to supporting the competitiveness of the economy and business investment, as well as strengthening territorial cohesion. That is why the Budget continues to extend tax support to investment. For the third consecutive year, the limit of deductions for retained and reinvested profits is extended to EUR 10 million. And the limits of maximum deduction in the investment support tax system are also extended. Companies have invested at historic levels and therefore the government has sought to match this effort, taxing companies that invest and strengthen their own capital. The Government has also sought to alleviate business treasury and reduce the tax effort of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is why customs value added tax has been created, which has already benefited 3143 exporting companies, which have thus had a cash benefit of around EUR 150 million per month. in this budget, the Government proposes to go further, ending with the obligation of the special payment on its own, thus relieving the tax effort of micro and small enterprises in more than EUR 100 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also proposed that the purpose of the minimum collection of IRC (tax on the income of collectives) be simplified. In addition, the government wants to create conditions to bridge a great obstacle to the future growth of our economy, which is the lack of human resources in some regions of the country and in some sectors of activity. It is necessary to continue to bet not only on the qualification of Portuguese but also on the return of those who had to start in other circumstances. Thus, the Regressar Programme includes, among other measures, an exclusion from the taxation of 50 % of the income received by those returning to Portugal over the next two years. This is, of course, a measure of support for our compatriots who had to emigrate, but it is also a measure of support for the collection of human resources for our companies. It is also very important in the management of human resources to create an autonomous rate for retention in the source of remuneration for extraordinary hours, and no longer penalises workers who have done extra work at the end of the month. This is a budget that continues to support business investment and human resources management. But this is a Budget which also recognizes that public and private investment is a decisive component of the development of the country's interior. The interior of Portugal has been confronted, for decades, with a movement of migration of its residents to the coast and abroad. Attracting investment that creates jobs and retains population is therefore a national design. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In order to attract employment, the Budget calls for the deduction of 20% of the salary mass of jobs created inside the IRC. This is a measure that, within the limit, can lead to a zero IRC collection. In addition to the increase in regional components of the contractual tax system, this measure may represent a powerful tool for the success of the investment capture programme within which the Government has recently approved. In addition to attracting business investment, a policy of support for the interior of the country needs to create incentives for setting people in the interior. The Budget contains important proposals for incentives for the geographical mobility of civil servants, from the increase of holiday days to the payment of a pay supplement. The good experience that was possible in the program to fix doctors in deprived areas, which allowed attracting 150 doctors to areas of low population density, is a lesson that should, and can, be generalized. The budget also creates incentives for the establishment of residence in the interior and, crucially, incentives for students displaced in educational establishments in the interior, which can deduct up to €1000 per year of their education expenditure, including those in which they are accommodated, in order to attend educational establishments in the interior. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, this Budget seeks to create conditions for the appreciation of the country's natural heritage and for the use of the endogenous resources of the interior, particularly of our forests. In this way, the Budget creates a fiscal framework favourable to forest associations and active forest investment and management and finally lays the groundwork for the creation of resources for the remuneration of ecosystem services and support to forest producers. Mr. President and Mr. Members, a Budget is by definition a limited exercise in time: it lays down the expenditure which Parliament authorizes the Executive to carry out and the revenue which it is entitled to charge the following year. This bill of State Budget has a history and a trajectory. The story is that started three years ago, when a set of parties decided to make a commitment that would allow greater economic growth, the strengthening of social cohesion, with more territorial cohesion. The trajectory is the one that, from now on, is planned for the future: to continue to work for productivity growth, provided by business investment and the qualification of our human resources. This is therefore the Budget which, with sound foundations, allows us to launch the process of sustainable and responsible growth, with more employment, better wages and better living conditions for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u3	Mr Minister, 10 Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u4	Mr President, I will respond to a group of four and two groups of three requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u5	Groups of four, three, three... it reminds you of something. [[Laughing.]] You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr António Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, « inside » and « appreciation of the interior » are words that have been at the tip of the language of this government. But the problem is practice! Or, better, lack of them. That is what I want to talk about here, about the lack of practice of this government and what is not in the 2019 State Budget. I will remember: in 2017, the country had two great disasters, two great fires that devastated the interior, which is clear proof that the state failed! The State failed because it failed to guarantee the security of people and their property. People died, houses burned, companies were destroyed, but, despite this, there was a great wave of national solidarity. It seemed, finally, that the interior was the cause. But this government did not take advantage. It is true that he took initiatives, but quickly realized that the interior is just conversation. And it's just talk why? It is that the government is only able to count votes, and they are not inside. [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u7	Cohesion, betting on low-density territories is a political option: either yes or soups! Let us see, in recent years, we have clear investments in the interior, where the main victims are people: for example, in the national health system, with lack of investment in health centres, health stations, health extensions and hospitals. In 2016, 2017 and 2018, nothing! That was the case with primary care. [[PCP protests.]] In fact, the Central Hospital of Alentejo is another victim of this circumstance. It appeared in the 2016 State Budget, with copy paste in the 2017 State Budget, with copy paste in 2018 and now with copy paste in the 2019 Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u8	And the PSD continues to vote against!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u9	Well, they still leave the expectation that it might be by 2022, 2023. But, I ask: Are there more doctors inside? Are there any more medical specialists inside? Are there more doctors and nurses inside? Mr. Prime Minister, in the Alentejo, for example, who represents a third of Portuguese territory, there is no orthopedist in the national health system!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u10	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u11	Throughout the country, there are no gynecologists, anesthetists,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u12	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u13	... there are missing pediatricians, pediatricians, etc. etc. On the other hand, at the level of the transport of patients, one thing is to remember: a transport of patients from Faro to Lisbon passes through Évora, goes to Portalegre and comes to Lisbon and, at the end of the day, does the reverse. We're talking about transporting cancer patients! This is the way this government treats people and treats the inside! That is how this Government effectively deals with people from within. I mean, right now, investments in schools in recent years: zero! [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] That's the answer I can give you. The same applies to new social equipment; in the areas of business reception, the same thing; in the investment in scientific and technological infrastructures, the same thing. In addition, it is sufficient to see the implementation of Community funds in these areas to see the level of investment. [[PS protests.]] Competitions open, ads open, but run zero! at the level of transport, they delete trains inside, they change intercity trains to regional, but people pay the same; trains are delayed in about two hours; there are permanent failures. But when they talk about investment, and an important investment such as the Sines-Caia connection for the transport of goods, they forget precisely the train stops in Évora, in New Sales and in the marbles area. That's how you treat the inside. Mr. Prime Minister, this country does expect to adopt appropriate policies for the interior, not with brute cuts, not to forget the future, not with the lack of reforms. The interior continues to lose population, getting older, losing jobs, losing investment. It's bleeding what we have inside. The interior needs a different look, with more aggressive public policies, almost radical. It is not with the public measures contained in the State Budget for 2019, which are almost non-existent, that something can be done. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, this government reminds me of a legend of the Alentejo, the legend of the engagement, which passes on a land near Arraiolos, on a mountain. in this case, the bride is the interior of the country, who seems to have arranged a bride and who will marry, always with great expectations, but nothing happens. There are many expectations, but nothing happens. The bride is well arranged, until she paints her nails in the middle of the budget period, but nothing happens. [[PS protests.]] Deputy Minister, do you know who the groom is? It is not you, it is the Prime Minister of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u14	To request clarification, Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr António Costa Silva, I would like to tell you that it was very elucidative to your intervention. You know why? Because, in the case of the right-wing government you supported, the bride didn't even get engaged. He never got engaged! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, with PSD and CDS, the interior knows what it can expect. Zero investment can be expected, in particular zero investment in the railway; it can wait for the end of the status of tax benefits; it can wait for the end of the social security contact centre, by chance installed in Castelo Branco ; it can wait for the stop of the Alvito dam, which you have allowed to stop and which has been referred to the timetables ; it can wait for the shutdown of the electrification of the Beira Baixa line, which has now been resumed with the connection to the Beira Alta line and with the significant investment that this government is making with the Railway 2020 programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With the PSD and CDS, the interior counted on investment in stopped schools but which, in good time, was resumed by this government throughout the country. With PSD and CDS, the poverty and impoverishment of Portuguese can be expected. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the Portuguese know that it is not with a right-wing government that the interior can have sustainable development. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Deputy Minister and Economics, indeed his speech reveals a vision for the country based on a programme, a strategy that encompasses the whole country. This is a budget based on the recovery of the economy and employment, which has returned hope and confidence to the Portuguese through the recovery of income, the increase in exports. This is a Budget based on an innovative economy and where the interior is also included. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the interior is not just what they want to believe! The interior is also a space with innovation centers, with centers knowing that it is necessary to promote, develop and enhance. In fact, what we saw, with this government and this government solution, led by Prime Minister Antonio Costa, was an investment of policies that led us to move from a cycle of impoverishment to a virtuous cycle. Priority to growth and job creation have produced results! Who does not remember that 320 000 jobs have been created, which is, in fact, remarkable? Who doesn't remember reducing the unemployment rate to levels below 2008? We know that this budget also provides for 377,500 jobs to be created until the end of the legislature. And we also know and remember how difficult it was for the country to appeal to emigration, which led to the exit of Portuguese at the levels of the 1960s! I recall a serious and impressive number: we have lost 250 000 young people in just four years of right-wing government governance. But now the active population is growing again and this is really important because, despite this significant number of jobs, we still need to recover 300 000 jobs that you have helped to destroy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This had important reflections throughout the country and also in demographics. Of course, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, who, when talking about crisis, attacks the interior further. It is an obligation in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic that we will produce policies that promote social and territorial cohesion, which make the country more equal between the coast and the interior, between the city and the countryside, which do not produce second Portuguese! We hope that this government will do so. Mr Minister has recently announced some measures in this regard and the Budget contains others, such as the Regressor Programme, which relates, as well as support for the installation of companies, investment collection, tourism recovery and incentives for geographical mobility. I conclude by saying, Minister, that we need solidarity from all over the country. We need the solidarity of coastal Portugal to stop looking kindly at the interior, we need to realize that the country will be as much better and more balanced and cohesive, socially and territorially, as it is. We believe that this government will continue to do what has always been done by the governments of the Socialist Party. [[Mr Duarte Marques's laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u16	Or Socrates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u17	This is the mark of the Socialist Party: support for territorial cohesion, social cohesion. It is essential that, once and for all, with this plan, with the leadership of Mr. Prime Minister and with the meaning that the establishment of the Secretary of State for the Valorization of the Interior in White Castle, in the interior, ultimately, the country becomes more cohesive and developed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u18	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr. Heitor de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, of course, GDP growth has to do with policies to promote domestic demand both at the level of consumption and at the level of investment, and also at the level of public expenditure. It is therefore important to discuss in particular the development of investment, in particular public investment. Why in particular? Because it is the State budget report itself that refers to the continued growth of private investment, with an increase in 2018 of 13, 2 %, while the evolution of public investment has been to the solutions. In 2016, capital expenditure decreased by 11 % ; in 2017, the estimate again decreased by 14 % ; in 2018, the estimate points to an increase of 20 % ; in 2019, it is said that it will increase by 33 %, to a value of 4 billion euros. Mr Minister, these numbers don't strike right with what you know about the behaviour of public investment, which is worrying. In fact, according to the budget implementation this year, it is known that until September only 47 % of the budget has been implemented. These data are consistent with recent news that point to very low executions of the public investment funds such as the Lisbon Metropolitan, CP ( Portugal Trains ) or EMEF ( Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, S.A. ). The very low levels of capital expenditure in the third year of the Legislature are not understandable, even less when we know that each year the deficit fell short of the authorization given by the Assembly of the Republic to the Government. According to data from the Directorate-General for Budget, there is a systematic difference between the budgeted and executed: less EUR 934 million in 2016 ; less EUR 831 million in 2017 ; less EUR 944 million in 2018. For this value, the Directorate-General for Budget estimates that 17, 2 % of the budgeted are to be executed, a difference of EUR 113 million, greater than in the previous year. The problem, Minister, is of priority and political will. And the government's will is to achieve the zero deficit. The Minister for Economic Affairs is, together with the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, one of those responsible for the implementation of public investment, so I ask you: how does this data justify? How does the repeated failure to implement public investment in view of what has been entered in the Budget explain? What is your commitment to implement the investment projects that appear in this Budget for 2019 and which, in many cases, already fall late? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u20	To conclude this round of requests for clarification, Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u21	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Minister, this is the first speech you make in this Parliament as Minister of Economic Affairs and I must say to you, Minister, that it was indeed a disappointment. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u22	Not so much, Mr Minister, for what I have said, but, and above all, for what Mr Minister has not said and that any minister of the economy should say. There may be reasons for that, and I'll explain them, helping a little. The day after Mr. Minister of Finance allegedly announced a drop in ISP (oil and energy tax), Mr. Minister of Economy spoke, knowing what the ISP is an essential issue for many companies and for many citizens living inside. What are you doing? Don't talk about it. Nothing says. Mr Minister, I was quite frankly hoping that he would finally explain to us the so enigmatic phrase said yesterday by the Minister of Finance, that he would explain to us why he said so and how he said it. Otherwise, we are aware that the Minister for Economic Affairs — and that is why he did not talk about it — has, as we understand, realized that what Mr Finance said is yet another achievement of this budget. I will explain why, Minister : since then, because it does not cover gas oil, so that companies use, as the citizens of the interior, which, as you know, has increased 40 cents per litre since 2016. I should have come down 6 cents, Minister, to help the economy, but it goes down zero! Even in gasoline, the reduction of 3 cents that Mr. Minister of Finance announced yesterday, in order to be neutral in view of the increase, would have to be 4 cents. That is, indeed, what Mr. Minister for Finance said yesterday is that an increase of 1 cent is expected. Finally, Mr President, the Minister did not explain — until I grant it more to the Minister of Finance, who did not want to explain — how the Budget, where the Minister of Finance says that the ISP is coming down, provides for an increase in ISP revenue in the amount of EUR 200 million. Mr. Minister didn't explain, he didn't say, he didn't say anything. And I have one of two explanations: either because the Minister does not believe it, and I think it does well, makes it sensible to the recent past, or because the Minister, who, as you know, has consumer protection, soon realized that it was misleading advertising and that it was better not to say anything and pretend that nothing has happened. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But, Minister, there were more absences. In a budget which increases all autonomous taxes, which is a budget that is not a business friend, the Minister says nothing. Nothing, for example, says about IRC. If we join the IRC rate with autonomous taxes, we have one of the highest IRC rates in the European Union together with France. Does that not concern the Minister for Economic Affairs? What are you going to do? Will you continue to let Mr Finance Minister, for example, take all the money from vocational training? Will you continue to think that vocational training is something less important? Mr Minister, as far as the interior is concerned, another disappointment, and the big ones, even because it is a folder that Mr Minister had before the remodeling. Let me tell you that what I said to the inside was pretty little! So I wanted to leave you here four very direct questions: is the Minister of Economics, or not, in accordance with the deduction of the price of domestic tolls, as proposed by the CDS? Are you, or are you not, the Minister of Economics agreeing to the reduction of up to half of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons)? Are you, or are you not, the Minister of Economy according to a 10% rate on IRC for all companies? Are you, or are you not, the Minister of Economics agreeing with the increase in all the tax benefits to precisely capture investment in the interior? Mr Minister, these four questions are fundamental. Given the lack of essential issues for companies and the economy in their speech, with the answer to these questions we will be able to understand whether we have a Minister of Economics or if we have another Minister of Centeno! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u23	In reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Costa Silva, are concerned about the de-investment that has occurred inside, and you are right. over several decades, there has been a abandonment of the interior territory, which has worsened, in more recent times, with large investments: the revocation of the status of tax benefits to the interior; the closure of courts; the closure of the call center of social security; the abandonment of many infrastructure projects in the interior of the country. That was what happened until 2015. It is true, as you say, that this government has the interior at the tip of the language. And it has it because it also has it in the center and priority of government action. That is why, within the strategy that the Government has drawn to the need to attract investment that creates jobs and sets populations, we have already managed to redirect Portugal 2020's incentive systems to support enterprise investment in the interior: it has already reached EUR 1800 million in investment in low-density territories. We launched and recently presented, last week, the results of competitions for incentive systems, exclusively dedicated to interior territories, which can support projects worth EUR 500 million of business investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we are making an unprecedented investment in the railway, with the recovery and construction of new lines that will serve the interior of the country. That is why we resumed abandoned road projects, closing the meshes in the center area, launching the requalification of the IP3, accelerating projects to link areas of business location to large infrastructure networks. That is why we also kept open schools, 400 classes with less than 21 students, which remained open in low-density regions, where a blind perspective regarding demand could lead to the closure of public services and schools. We also reopened or installed services inside: we reopened the Contact Center for Social Security in Castelo Branco ; we installed collaborative laboratories within the country; we placed the headquarters of the Integrated Forest Fire Management Agency in Lousã ; and we created the State Secretariat for the Valorization of the Interior, which is a symbolic measure of the importance that the Government gives to the development of the interior. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Hortense Martins spoke to us about the need for economic growth being done with territorial cohesion as well. That is why this Budget and government action aim to value the cultural and natural heritage of our country throughout its territory. That is why we have laid the foundations and we will continue to invest in programs to enhance cultural heritage and tourist heritage. The Valuation Programme will be strengthened, allowing installation and investment in the tourist territory. The Revive Programme is benefiting from a set of cultural heritage goods within the country and, more important than that, to enhance our cultural heritage and prevent the abandonment of rural territory, to launch, for the first time in our country, the remuneration of ecosystem services. Mr. Heitor de Sousa, attention to public investment is crucial at this stage of the legislature. We laid the foundations for the future sustainable growth of the country, which is possible at this time thanks to the sound public accounts that constitute the good foundation for the future. Public investment is accelerating. One third of public investment began to be implemented in the first half of the year and the trend is accelerated in the second half. By the end of September, the investment of the central government increased by 30 % over the same period of the previous year. In the railway, we are making one of the biggest investments ever and we are renewing the CP fleet, as well as that of the metropolitans of Lisbon and Porto. We are building roads of proximity, particularly in the center of the country, and we are with particular attention to collective transport, not only in the metropolitan areas, but throughout the country. The compensatory compensation to transport undertakings has already fivefolded over the previous periods. Mr Nuno Magalhães, this is not the first debate in which I speak as Deputy Minister and Economics. I've been here before in that quality. I just wanted to save that stuff. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u25	He was distracted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u26	Mr President, I understand your interest in the ISP, but I would also like to tell you that the concern we have to have is with the external competitiveness of our companies. Our companies have been gaining market share abroad in an extraordinary way. Exports have significantly increased and at present the market share gain of Portuguese companies abroad exceeded 40 % compared to 2015. What must we be concerned about in order to continue to support the competitiveness of our companies? We must be concerned that the operating costs, the costs incurred in carrying out their activities are equal to those of their European counterparts. That is why, in terms of ISP, with the announced reduction, the price of petrol will now be at the average level of the European Union... [[But our wages are lower!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u27	...and the gas oil ISP is below the European average. More than that: in the transport of goods we have the professional gas oil regime, which allows, precisely, to recover the ISP that is incurred by companies. Yes, let us proceed with the reduction of the price of tolls. this year, and for the second time in this Parliament, we will reduce the price of tolls. It is important to reduce the context costs of companies that invest and develop their activity inside and which are further away from consumption centres. As regards the reduction of IRS to half, this proposal creates imbalances that are not appropriate. What distinguishes the resident in Soure from what is in Pombal? How is it possible for a person to change his or her tax residence only to 30 km away to benefit from a reduction in IRS in this way? This will certainly not be the most appropriate way of taking care of these interests and that is why, in the area of IRS, we have been able to increase the deductions for those who change their home to the inside. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u28	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the second round of questions. Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Deputy Minister and Economics, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises account for 99% of the country's companies, over 75% of the turnover and around 80% of the employment. They are therefore the basis of Portuguese business fabric. With the policies of the previous PSD / CDS government, these companies faced great difficulties due to gross tax increases, especially for the ISP, the IMI ( municipal property tax ), the VAT—in particular the VAT of the restoration, which led only in one year to more than 4000 closures—and to a policy of income contraction, which led to less consumption. With the action of the CFP it has been possible in recent years to reverse many of these measures, but the most important was even the replacement of income and rights, giving oxygen to the internal market. in this course, if there is significant measure that the CFP is proud to have brought to bear along this legislation is the extinction of the CFP (special payment on account), which will finally be realized in this State Budget, after so much insistence on our part. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u30	With the end of the obligation of the CFP, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are free of an unfair and anachronistic mechanism, which was the obligation to pay a minimum collection, whether they had profit or not, contrary to all the principles of fiscal justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u32	Mr Minister, it is now necessary to ensure that this measure applies as quickly as possible and as little bureaucracy as possible. We also appreciate that the door has been opened, in the proposal for a State Budget, and on the initiative of the CFP, to the recognition of the fair impediment to certified accountants, which has long been claimed by the structures of the sector and which will end the situation of these professionals cannot justify a delay in the delivery of a declaration obligation, even if they have reasons for force majeure. Mr Minister, public investment should have a structural role in the country's economic development, particularly at a time of growth, such as the current one, giving the economy a muscle to prepare for the future. According to the State budget proposal for 2019, an increase in public investment is expected by 17, 1 %, which should be added to an increase of 16, 3 % in 2018. We have already had the opportunity to ask Mr Finance Minister whether these forecasts are realistic, given that the expected level of investment for 2018 will hardly be reached. It is sufficient to see that in the first half of 2018, in annual terms, public investment increased over the previous year only 2, 4 %. In his reply, the Minister merely referred to the fact that the investment profile is generally higher in the second half. It'll have to be much higher, then! I asked you, therefore, that it might be closer to the implementation of this investment in the second half of the year, what measures, the Government is looking forward to ensuring that the planned investment for 2018 is implemented. With regard to these 17, 1 % increase in the investment provided for in the proposal for a State Budget, what the Portuguese want to know is whether they will reflect in particular improvements in roads, schools, hospitals, state laboratories, public transport, or will again be a kind of budgetary reserve to which the Government will resort whenever it feels that Brussels taxes are being lifted. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u33	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Green Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u34	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, in order to talk about the internal market, we must talk about the instruments that support it and of course of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, because these companies, in addition to what they represent in our economy, still have a very important role to play in combating desertification, depopulation of the interior and therefore in combating regional asymmetries. Moreover, according to recent data released by the European Commission, the overwhelming majority of jobs are created by companies with fewer than 10 employees. It happens that, despite the importance of both our economy and the fight against desertification, the truth is that in general these companies continue to have excessive levels of indebtedness, and this scenario is even more worrying if we take into account that these companies are very dependent on banking credit, especially in the short term. Indeed, forgotten, I would even say punished, during the PSD/CDS government period, that the shift from 13 % to 23 % of the restoration is just one example, the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in their large majority, remain still very dependent on banking credit, which alone is not healthy and is not recommended. To all of this, there is another important element in this matter. I am referring to the financial leverage movement that the Portuguese banks have played and which has ultimately led to a sharp increase in the risk and collateral credits required for the financing of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which, of course, has been reflected in the business activity very strongly. However, with limited access to international capital markets, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises face a serious financing problem. A problem that, in fact, the banking concentration found in our country has even worsened substantially because, with this concentration, there have been more restrictions on access to credit, especially with the reduction of business ceilings. In other words, the situation that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises live does not allow them to make the contribution they could make with regard to the resumption of business investment and, as a consequence, this situation undermines the revival of the economy and economic growth. So if we take all these difficulties into account and the importance that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises represent in our economy, it seems to us that there is no need to make a great effort to realize that this framework is not helping in the economic recovery of the country. Therefore, Mr Minister, I would like to know whether the measures provided for in this State budget for micro and small and medium-sized enterprises respond to the major difficulties they face, particularly with regard to measures to speed up their access to finance, but also to promote their capitalisation. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u35	To conclude this round of requests for clarification, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Deputy Minister and Economics, were listening to the government's self-satisfied speech on this area and thinking 'if so, why are the entrepreneurs so disappointed? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Anyway! Mr Minister, as you well know, Mr Minister formally reaches the economy folder for bad reasons and bad times. For bad reasons, I pay attention to the state of abandonment to which this folder has been voted with a sympathetic but inoperative minister, drifting State Secretaries and with Mr. Minister managing the current management of the sector at a distance. There was certainly merit, certainly, that there were merits, merits of the entrepreneurs, despite the government and not with the government, who never gave priority or political weight to this folder. In addition to the bad reasons, it comes to this folder at a bad time, because it is up to it to assume as its budget and because, after three years of successive frustration, we see nothing new that allows us to glimpse good news for our companies. Remember, Minister! This Government has defined as priorities of its policy and its governance model two phenomena: business investment and private consumption. As for business investment, just listen to the sector. I remember that economic activity in Portugal has been falling consecutively a year since October 2017 — I do not know how else I will say this: one year ago there has been a fall in economic activity in Portugal! I don't understand why the orchestra keeps playing. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u37	The source is Banco de Portugal, it is unsuspecting. As for the second passion, that of private consumption, not only is it falling a year ago, as the government has found, to dynamize it, the worst of the solutions: to increase the seal tax in consumer credit transactions. No more consumption, but more tax revenue. Word given, word struck. Mr Minister, the general reaction is disappointing, but it is no longer surprising. You certainly do not ignore what the economy needs and what companies are demanding: reforms that improve the competitiveness of companies; fiscal stability,... [[All right!]] [[PCP MP Protests João Oliveira]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u38	... new tools to strengthen corporate capitalisation; invest in human resources qualification; increase innovation; and, among other things, a measure that is in your Capitalisation Programme, which are the specific support for companies that have undergone business restructuring processes, saving businesses and saving jobs. Given word, adjourned word, Minister. If you want to support the economy, do at least one thing: make the state, with which the public authorities pay the companies what they should. They pay companies what they need, because otherwise they are suffocating companies and suffocating jobs. A state that accumulates debts to economic agents, to the economy, is not credible and can only have a name, and the name is not beautiful. And what does this State Budget bring us? Exactly the opposite : more autonomous taxation, extraordinary rates for the energy sector, changes in seal tax and increased single circulation tax ( IUC ). It's no use attacking the PSD for telling the truth. This government and this budget have once again seen the backs of businesses and the economy. The government has good cosmetics, it is excellent to launch economic support programmes, I am glad to move forward with credit lines, with lines of support that delay in solving or responding to the real needs of companies. Mr Minister, I could give you the example of the EUR 200 million investment fund announced in an excess of enthusiasm at the Summit Web in 2016, and which has become a sour anecdotal because only a month ago is that we really had the opening of candidatures. Word given, word crushed. Mr Minister, the role holds up what they put there and the PSD will record their answers. But what I ask you to explain, what I ask you to explain, what I ask you to explain to the entrepreneurs is that this budget should be well received, in which this budget is a friend of the companies, where is the investment in innovation that they promised in the Government Programme, in 2015. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u39	To respond to these three requests for clarification, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Duarte Alves mentioned the importance of investment and support for micro and small enterprises, and it is true that these have been addressed, throughout the legislature, by means of a set of very significant measures to support its treasury and its development. It was good to recall all these measures: the reduction of VAT in the restoration, the reduction and, now, the end of the special payment on behalf, the revocation of the minimum collection on simplified IRC. But he also mentioned the issues of public investment. Public investment in 2019 will continue to increase. It is true that it is important to recover the public investment deficit that has been passed on to us from the previous legislature. In fact, the deficit in public investment was not only due to a large reduction in the investment made in the previous four years of the previous legislation, but also to the fact that for this legislation almost no projects were left capable of being executed immediately or even of having been appropriate resources to deal with these investments. [[PSD protests.]] We have taken time to have these projects implemented, but now we are truly accelerating the pace of implementation of the investment which, as you say, is important for the future of this country. Mr. José Luís Ferreira spoke of the importance of micro and small enterprises in the development of the interior. True, we must continue to support these small investments. It is therefore so relevant that the system of incentives to entrepreneurship and employment, which has been supporting throughout the country, but with a proportionally more significant preponderance in the interior, small investment projects, modernization, re-qualification of productive capacities. But he has also talked about a crucial problem for our economy, which has to do with the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, we have in the past faced a difficulty in accessing credit by small and medium-sized enterprises, and these difficulties have not yet been overcome. The banking system is confronted with regulatory requirements that make access to credit more and more demanding. There is a market failure there. And it is this market failure that the government's policy has tried to overcome. Therefore, we launched the Credit Lines Capitalize, as of 2016. The Capitalisation lines reached Portuguese small and medium-sized enterprises about EUR 2900 million in funding. That is why, too, we are now strengthening these lines. The Capitalisation 2018 Line has already been launched this year with more than EUR 1600 million of potential funding to which small and medium-sized enterprises are already accessing. The Capitalisation Line More by IFD ( Financial Development Institution ) is also bringing EUR 1000 million through the banking system to small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a market failure that only a given public policy can contradict. Mr. Paulo Rios, mentioned the importance of business investment for the country's growth. True, I can only agree with you that the growth of our productivity must certainly be based on the qualification of our human resources, but also on business investment. That is why — it is not for optimism or for other reasons — that we have to rejoice over the fact that last year private investment has grown 9, 2 %. It is the most significant private investment growth this century. That is why we must be satisfied with the foreign direct investment being at the highest level at the present time. There has never been such a high stock of direct and foreign investment in our country as at this very moment. It's good to talk about numbers. I like to talk about numbers, because numbers contradict ideas made. That is why if you bring the idea that this government has discouraged private investment, it is important to mention these numbers, because they are clear. It is also clear that growth in our country continues for the second consecutive year above the European average. It's something that hasn't happened since the beginning of this century either. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member expressed some concern about consumer credit. It is therefore precisely that the budget aims to penalise consumer credit. He mentioned a very important point that has to do with support for innovation and scientific employment. That is why, too, this budget shows a very significant increase in investment in science and scientific work which corresponds precisely to the financial translation of the absolute priority given by the Government to scientific innovation and investment in research and development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u41	A further three requests for clarification follow. To that end, Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the rural world is weakened, fragile and desertified. And contrary to what Mr António Costa Silva said, it was not the State that failed, it was decades of right-wing policy, successive PSD governments, the CDS and also the PS that failed. This interior to whom everything promised, particularly in years of elections, but which usually never met, felt in the skin the consequences of these options in the brutality of the fires of 2017 and 2018. We can't whiten or squawk the past. Depopulation, unemployment, ageing and precariousness are not the cause but the consequences of years of political options for integration into the European Union, of common agricultural policy and of investment in the interior. Problems in the rural and inland world, which this government has inherited, but which, unfortunately, are still to be resolved, when we are debating the last State Budget of this legislature. The sustainable development of the rural and interior world cannot be left simply by aesthetic measures, as was the case with the announcement of the location of the State Secretariat of the Valorization of the Interior. It will not be very bad for the world to consider some of these proposals, but it would be very bad for the territories concerned if we considered that this is the solution to combating desertification and the development of the rural world. The rural world has grounds for standing back and heated with so many announcements. It has well-founded reasons for doubting the solutions presented that go beyond an aggregate of broken proposals. Mr Minister, for the CFP, economic and social cohesion and the fight against regional asymmetries require a set of regionally integrated measures, ensuring public services and in particular health and education structures, but also finance services, banking services and TTCs and transport services. Speaking in transport, it also requires courage to end the tolls of the former SCUTs and to end concessions in these ways to private people, when the State has high burdens to secure the profits of multinationals; it requires the realization of a regional power with regionalization and a strong local power, including the replacement of extinct parish; it requires policies and measures to support its productive sectors, favouring small exploitation and family exploitation; but it requires, in particular, to take into account the specific realities of this rural world, where those who have housing, even if not of first residence, are fundamental elements for the survival of many villages. People who, upon returning, often, to their places of election, bring with them family members, investment, economic and social initiative. If those who resist all year round confirm that they no longer return, do not bring their grandchildren, their friends, then they will also end up leaving these territories. There are no illusions, Mr Minister, Portugal needs a policy that is in ruins with the roads that have sunk the rural world, the interior, and led the country to decline, ruining a large part of the national territory. Mr Minister, I ask you: what means are there for reopening public services, such as health centres, schools, posts and mail stations, agencies of the General Deposit Box? Does the government today assume the commitment not to terminate even another public service? What structural public investment, Mr Minister! — will they be executed in 2019 for the balanced development of the country? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u43	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u44	Mr President, I do not refuse to make a first reference to right-wing intervention here in Parliament on this matter of the interior. The right comes with a trusted conversation about marriages when you have not done anything else, over four years, except for divorce with the inside.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u46	I mean, it doesn't make any sense, it's an absolute hypocrisy, because it's been 4 years of terror, in which people impoverished, inside, with less public services, and now comes here talking about marriages. Honestly, it's the maximum hypocrisy! [[PSD protests.]] All demographic, economic and social indicators have worsened during right-wing governance, and this is the objective reality. Mr Minister, I would like to say the following: I understand, we all understand, the Portuguese understand that the struggle for territorial cohesion is a very difficult and very unequal struggle. It confronts the market forces, who always try to pull to the coast, pull to the metropolitan areas, pull to the concentration. There must therefore be a great deal of effort on the part of the Government and the State to counter this trend and to plan, invest and promote the interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u48	The problem here, Minister, is that there are contradictory signs. And I'm going to be very concrete about these contradictory signs. The first has to do with the following: it speaks in support of micro and small enterprises, investment in the interior and the populations of the interior. It is said that it is sought — and in some cases happened — to recover services in the interior. But, Minister, how is this compatible with a wave of post closures of the CTTs, which are fundamental to our economy, for small businesses, for the people, for the reformed? This is not consistent. The government has to take stock of this, Minister, because this is a contradictory sign, a sign that there is an investment in the interior! A second contradictory sign, Mr Minister, in my view also relevant, is that there can be no support for the economy, small businesses, the inhabitants of the interior, economic development, local resources, without security. And how can there be security, for example, in a specific case, in relation to the whole region of the Thame, when faced with the insecurity of the possibility of building the Fridão dam, which is a factor of brutal insecurity for those populations, affecting the territories of the interior of the Braga district and the district of Porto? We are half a dozen months after the end of the suspension of the Fridão dam and the government has no clear position on this matter, Minister? It is necessary to give security to populations, otherwise investment is delayed, populations have no confidence and indeed that region does not develop with this framework. What is first of all: the development of local resources or the interests of EDP (Energy of Portugal ) and Iberdrola on the issue of the Fridão dam? We are by the end of Fridão dam. It is necessary to provide security for the populations of the Thamega, of Amarante, from all those regions of the interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u50	A third aspect, Minister, concerns the forest. We know how important the forest is inside. But in the State budget it is not clear that there is an evident investment in the operation of forest management units. Mr Minister spoke, well, on the issue of forestry associationism. Specific measures and investments are needed to enable forest management units to function and to overcome the great constraint that is the dispersion of forest property, which needs to be aggregated into their management to develop. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u51	To request clarification, Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u52	Mr President, Minister, yesterday we saw a monumental ambush in the Assembly of the Republic. The Portuguese have the right to know that Mr. Minister of Finance's announcement of reducing the ISP in gasoline in 3 cents is a monstrous staging, a brutal ambush, which aims to lubricate the Portuguese. And why? For a very simple reason: from now on, because 80 % of Portuguese people use gas, not gas, and the government reduces 3 cents in gasoline and not gas. But it is more than that: the State budget provides for an increase of the ISP in the amount of EUR 213 million. For those who declare that their promise to reduce the ISP and abolish the additional is complete, it is very strange, very strange, that they have entered into the State budget a revenue that grows by 213 million euros. But you know why this is happening, Minister and Mr. Members of the government? By a subtle circumstance: there is an increase in the carbon rate, which is reflected in 1 cent in the ISP. In other words, the increase in the carbon rate is higher than what occurs in the reduction of ISP in gasoline. And the final result — and not for us, but for all the unacquainted Portuguese people — is that the EUR 2000 million that ‘has put up’ the price of fuel remains there. The Portuguese will pay more than they paid last year! It is extraordinary that, who says it degrades, in the end, it worsens. It's another trick. An ambush in the image of the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u53	In reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u54	Mr. President, Mr. Mr. João Dias and Mr. Pedro Soares spoke both of the importance of the appreciation of the interior. That is also the concept of the government, and that is why territorial cohesion is the priority of government action. The exploitation of the interior has several aspects, it is not a path that can simply be changed within a legislative framework and much less in a legislative session. We must continue to work for the attraction of investment that can create jobs and fix populations, for the exploitation of rural territory, now that there are fewer people to take care of it, and also in the provision of public services to populations of lower density territories. I'm going to focus on my answer, because she has to do with the questions that you are asking. Members have placed, precisely in this respect of public services. Serving populations in lower-density territories is more difficult, more expensive. It is more difficult to maintain an open health centre when the population is scattered across a vast territory than in the center of an urban area. That is why this government wants to reverse — and it is inverting — what was the prospect it inherited from earlier times. Where services were closed due to lack of demand, it is now sought to open services, maintain open services or find more flexible ways to provide quality public services to populations that do not reside near the headquarters of the services. That is why, for example, we have opened more than 200 citizen spaces in the whole country, with particular incidence in low density territories. That's why we opened 18 citizen stores. That is why we also made an investment in 20 Enterprise Spaces in the interior territories. But more than that, we must open up public services inside, ensure that remote service, mobile service, can continue to serve citizens who because they live in less densely populated territories should not be considered second-class citizens. Mr Cristovão Norte, taxation on fossil fuels, particularly in the ISP, will certainly have—and that is what the Government estimates—a growth at the level of collection. But this does not result in any worsening of the rates of ISP or carbon. There are two factors: first, the circumstances of increased demand that we estimate lead to greater fuel consumption. And why do we expect an increase in demand? Because we know that the growth of economic activity generates an increase in mobility of transport and travel. [[PSD protests.]] In fact, the country will continue to grow above the European average and that is why we expect an increase in travel and also the collection of the ISP. It is not because of any increase in the rates of these taxes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u55	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate, according to what the right hand told us three years ago, is impossible. It was not possible for this government to last for 3 years, it was not possible to reach the fourth State Budget of a parliamentary majority which depends on the support of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. This policy, said the CDS, in 2015, was the policy of the ruin of Portugal and the six-month drinker of measures would then bring a huge hangover. And the PSD spoke in 2015 about the false promises that existed in this parliamentary majority. As these criticisms have now been silenced, they intend to make this past forgotten. But there has been a crime of the Social Democratic Party since 2015. This plage is the intervention of Maria Luís Albuquerque. Let us see what she was saying at the time: « (...) all of us will be paid for our taxes, with the loss of our jobs, with reduced opportunities for our children, condemning the next generations to precariousness and uncertainty».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u57	It was all a disgrace!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u58	Ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members, if this is your party's service picnic, then we have to conclude that you need to change the crystal ball because she's stopped in time, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. But there is a promise that we want to charge in this last budget of the legislature. It is that we do not forget what Pedro Passos Coelho said and, therefore, if there is serious on the PSD bench, I want to ask you if you take seriously a phrase of Pedro Passos Coelho, which I read, their words. Pedro Passos Coelho said: "If we could at all return wages, pensions and taxes and, in the end, the bills would beat all of them, that would be fantastic. If this works, I will begin to defend the vote in PS, BE and PCP ». [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u59	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u60	from the Left Block, we don't want that support, but, Prime Minister, see if you don't want to make that invitation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the right says two similar things about this State budget. The PSD says it is an electoralist, although it cannot criticise any concrete measures — it does not "smell well" the PSD! And the CDS says it is an electoralism of the way «takes there, gives here», because it does not accept some of the proposals that say they are again false promises that are made to the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members on the right, three years after they left the government, continue to hold on to that the only good budget is the one that cuts people's lives is still haunted by the troika. You no longer need a new inspiration, you need an exorcism, and that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not with us. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But you tell us the right — you have repeated it several times by the PSD, by the voice of Mr Hugo Lopes Soares or by Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro — that there is an increase in taxes in this State budget. Now, UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) says that « the increase designed for indirect taxes is offset by a reduction in the tax burden on the form of direct taxes and, in the general amount, from 2018 to 2019, the low tax burden. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have so stuck to the UTAO report to ask questions to the government, seem to have forgotten this part, which is the obvious conclusion: it is a lie when they say there is an increase in the tax burden for 2019! It's a lie! I have no other way of saying. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no emojis for the size of the discharge from the right in this debate. There isn't! In fact, there isn't! Mr Prime Minister, I must tell you that we are proud when we hear some statements from government members. For example, when Mr. Prime Minister said, still days ago, that the right defends that, in order to increase the competitiveness of the country, wages need to be reduced and labour rights weakened. And Mr. Prime Minister said that the truth is that we increased the minimum wage in 2016, in 2017, this year and, let's know, we will increase it in 2019. We are proud of these words, because Mr Prime Minister was not the elections with any of these proposals for increase, with none of them. We are proud, for example, when we heard Minister Mário Centeno say that this budget completes a huge tax relief because it was the elections to keep the overtax of IRS and rejected — and rejected for several years — any change in the steps of IRS. We are proud when we hear Mr Minister say that he will even reduce the ISP because, a half a year ago, he told us that it was impossible, that it was that they depended on the public accounts and, therefore, we were proud of these changes in position. We are proud, for example, when Minister Manuel Heitor now says that higher education is in fact compulsory and its access must be free. However, only on 25. the time of negotiation of this State budget is that the government has agreed to reduce the value of the propines. We are proud - when Minister Vieira da Silva says that the automatic updating of pensions and the extraordinary increase in pensions guarantee the recovery of purchasing power - in the elections he promised to freeze pensions for 4 years! — and will repeat this within a few hours when this debate is closed. We therefore conclude from these words that the great winners of recent years have in fact been the citizens and citizens, voters and voters in Portugal who said that there was an alternative to the PSD and CDS withdrawal but also some apathy of the PS with regard to fighting for progress measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u62	It was this fundamental change that resulted in a change in policies, because it gave the left the ability to influence budgetary choices. So, when we look at the economic results, since 2015, there is a question that seems to be in the air, which is the following: did they happen to the Socialist Party or even to the Socialist Party? It is that too many times we have heard that the great virtue of the Socialist Party is to be the ABS (anti-lock burning system), the brake of these budgetary choices and that it is in that brake that is virtue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u63	We're the clutch!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u64	We can't get out of here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u65	Well, it's exactly the opposite. Whenever we believed that a income redistribution policy was possible, it helped people, helped the country and helped the public accounts. That is why this difference in outlook is the challenge now being made to this State budget. We know there's something else that the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support said, because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we read the whole report and not just the parties that are interested. UTAO says there is one budget for Parliament to see and another for the European Commission to evaluate. I don't think that's serious. We know that captivating are instruments of budgetary management, we always know that, and right-wing recorders have shown this to satiety. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We know that subordination is the sin of various governments, and again, the right was the recordist in this subordination. What we do not realize is who has now become convinced of the opposite of what he was defending in 2015, after 3 years of government – it has the most value to present – he continues to believe that he should not take the necessary steps to take this recovery to the end. It is because we have wasted EUR 2000 million of economic recovery, which we have not been able to introduce into the SNS ( National Health Service ) in public school, because Mr Finance Minister preferred to have a deficit for Brussels to see rather than a budget to meet the needs of the country. If in 2019 the priority is again the deficit of 0, 2 % and the guarantee of having a goal for Brussels be pleased, we will again have a result of the economy beyond what would be possible and a redistribution of wealth beyond what would be necessary for our country. This is the basic choice that we have in this budgetary debate and, therefore, today, when the government is finished participating in the budgetary procedure, giving the House its proposal, the time of the Assembly of the Republic begins to discuss its ideas on the State budget. from the Left Block, you know all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, know the country that we do not consider the energy proposal to be closed, for example, and we can go even further to lower the energy bill; we do not consider the long-term contribution careers folder closed and the answer to the dignity needed for those who started working very new and we will open this file in the specialty; and we do not consider the VAT issue of shows closed. These are some examples which have already been given publicly and which are listed here but which do not exhaust our proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u66	It's a party!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u67	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in each of these proposals it is not a government that will vote, it is Members and Members. And if there is something that the country has learned in 2015, it is who, in fact, in this context, defines the outcome of the policy are the Members of this Parliament and this is our responsibility. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u68	Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo, from the PSD, has the floor for a request for clarification. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u69	Mr President, honourable Member, a State budget should always be a strict document and therefore many of us were admired by the Minister of Finance in his narrative for announcing a deficit of 0,2 % for 2019 when the planned deficit is indeed 0,5 %. It's not a mistake, it's a lie! It is a gross lie which hardly dignifies the Minister of Finance, the government and the parties who, obviously, support him Parliamentally. According to the Minister of Finance, this difference of EUR 590 million results from a process of intent not to carry out expenditure and therefore, from now on, finally captivate, in 2019, EUR 590 million of expenditure. The questions I would like to ask you, Mr President, are whether or not the Left Block agrees with this pre-announcement of definitive captivating in 2019 of at least EUR 590 million, this before the Budget even begins to be implemented? How can it be said that it is intended to bet on the economy, which is intended to bet on investment, with this level of captives? Does the Left Block also take pride in this level of captivating? It is only now that, with this announcement, the Left Block will no longer be able to do its usual number, a posteriori, of admiration, of indignation with regard to the amounts of definitive captives. We have a guarantee, and the Left Block knows today: with this level of seizures announced by the Minister of Finance, the investment to be made in 2019 will be much lower than the budgeted investment. But I have two other brief questions for the honourable Member: with your vote, the Left Block will or will not approve, will it or will not validate this government strategy to continue not to implement expenditure approved in this Parliament, continuing public services to suffer an unprecedented deterioration, yes? Finally, does the Left Block feel comfortable ideologically with this attitude, always subjugating itself, always bowing to the demands of the Minister of Finance? Let us not say that no, Mr, because the favourable vote of the Left Block on this Budget says otherwise. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u70	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u71	Mr President, Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo, record that on the words of Pedro Passos Coelho and the promise of vote in the Left Block, in the PCP and in the PS, nothing said and therefore I understand that who agrees and will accompany Pedro Passos Coelho in this intention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u72	Bullshit, bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u73	With regard to the second question, I remember and even referred to it, as regards budgetary targets, firstly, that there is a fundamental debate in which we differ absolutely from the PSD and in which we have views contrary to that of the Minister of Finance, which has to do with the following: the PSD and the CDS, when they were in government, considered it virtuous for the economy to privatize, cut rights, cut wages, reduce the purchasing power of families. The result was a sinking of the economy, a shooting of unemployment and mass emigration, making the country much worse than it was. We also disagree with the fear that the Minister for Finance has, because he does not fully believe in the economic outcome of these proposals. What we consider to be the great fundamental divergence is what exists to analyze in 2015, in 2016, in 2017 and now in 2018, and there is no reason to consider that if it has gone well in the past it will go wrong in the future. It was EUR 2000 million, added over the last three years, which, as a result of the improvement of the economy, was the result of the increase in employment, had a positive impact on the increase in public accounts. Result: Why did it happen? Why did we freeze pensions, freeze the minimum wage, keep cuts, keep cuts in social support? No, it was the opposite! Today, there is no economist who denies that the economy has developed with the pillar of the internal market, by policies of redistribution of wealth. Now, if so, why are we going to prevent further steps in 2019?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u74	What about the investment? Tell me about the investment, Mr. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u75	We know that, on the PSD side, they accompany us, we know that. from our point of view, the debate on the deficit is neither a question of tenths. But now, when we discuss the stability programme and the budgetary targets to be presented, we have brought up a proposal from the Block the debate in the Assembly of the Republic and the PSD voted against. It was last May, Mr. Deputies. PSD voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u76	And vote! Vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u77	Therefore, we know the virtues that this Budget has, we do not deceive anyone about the limitations that this Budget also contains and we know the huge difference... [[Huge!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u78	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u79	... between what the right budget would be and what this is. On public investment, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have the opportunity to discuss the amendments to the Left Block to increase it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u80	What about the captivating?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u81	We will see what the PSD will say about this or whether in practice the answer will be: "We are against because we wanted an even lower deficit and an even more focused public investment in this context". [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u82	Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u83	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we discuss the State Budget for 2019, I will start by talking about the pediatric wing of the Hospital São João. In November 2017, this government told the country that the money for the construction of the new wing was already on the hospital account, waiting for a role of finance. In April this year, the government repeated that money was available, but until today, despite the multiple demands of the PSD, we have never seen the extracts of the bank account from the hospital, as we have not seen any works. Even before summer, the government promised that the pediatric situation would be resolved in two weeks. Now the Prime Minister has come to confirm that we have been misled for 2 years, because now, after all, it is from the State budget that depends on the performance of the work! In fact, about two weeks ago there was a light of hope when, in this Chamber, a member of the Socialist Party said that the work of the pediatric wing of the Hospital São João would be awarded in January 2019, but then came to the Minister. When asked, last week, about the pediatric wing, the new Minister of Health went back, said there was no work and did not commit to dates. It is a great joke that shows that it was never a serious intention of this government to build the pediatric wing. Simply, these children who live with cancer are not a priority for the government, it's all talk. On the other hand, as with Infarmed. After so many and so many promises, after the waste of time and resources, after causing the despair of the officials of that public institute, what do we see? Not 1 € from Budget for the transfer from Infarmed to the city of Porto! It's all talk. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Minister for Finance said that health is a great bet of the State budget. So let's go to numbers. Portugal is in line with OECD countries ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). With this Budget, health will deserve an investment of only 5, 2 % of GDP, when the OECD average is 6, 5 %. But worse: if we get wrong in the international comparison, it is unacceptable how health is treated in this Budget compared to the other areas of governance. It is that overall public expenditure amounts to 3, 3 %, while public health expenditure amounts to only 2 %, 3 %. Therefore, if there were any doubts, it is so clear that health is not a priority for this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u85	It is clear that, after the inevitable resignation of the former Minister of Health, this new ministerial team did not negotiate this State Budget. Therefore, from a political point of view, the Prime Minister is responsible, first and last, for what has happened and what will happen in the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]] Speaking of government changes, it is not surprising that Mr. Prime Minister has chosen as a new State Secretary someone who, a few weeks before taking possession, publicly defended that the surplus of what ADSE beneficiaries discount every month from their orders should serve, not to finance ADSE but to fund the National Health Service. So the question remains: Mr. Minister of Finance, will you use the money that is from the ADSE beneficiaries, who have already paid their taxes, to cover the mistakes of your mismanagement? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this budget is full of promises, but the Portuguese are not deceived. We all know that, in the good manner of this government, the promises are not necessarily to be fulfilled. Consider the case of investment: the government plans that the expenditure for the acquisition of capital goods will rise to EUR 322 million in 2019, but what does the history of these three years of governance tell us? Well, for this year of 2018 there was an investment forecast of 301 million, but until September this year only 82 million were made. In 2017, the investment forecast pointed to EUR 259 million, but it was only costing EUR 111 million. And in 2016, when there was an investment forecast of 211 million, they only executed 117 million euros. Just talk, then. Consider also the case of the promise of hospital investment. For the new Madeira hospital they promised to pay 50 % of the expenditure, but in fact they approved in the Council of Ministers only 13 %, in a gross attempt to deceive the Madeirans. [[It's true! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u86	The hospitals of Évora and Seixal do not pass a mirage and the promised hospitals of Algarve and Barcelos, as well as the motherhood of Coimbra, do not deserve even a word in this Budget, or the Government. On the other hand, the only truly competition for the responsibility of this government — you can imagine! — was the creation of another public-private partner ( PPP) for the construction of the Eastern Lisbon Hospital. Another PPP created by a socialist government, but now with the support — this yes, historical! — the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block. The bill, that's soon to see you! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u87	You guys even like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u88	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the mismanagement and de-investment that this government has carried out in the SNS leads people to lack access to health. The waiting times for specialist consultations and surgeries exceed the clinically acceptable limits. With this, you push the Portuguese to the private, not by choice, but because you have no other choice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u89	You don't even like it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u90	Those who visit the health units of the SNS are confronted with the horrendous lack of human resources and with professionals who are deeply worn out. See the case of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. The Minister of Finance came to this House last April to say that the career situation of these professionals was already resolved. The strike, yesterday, with an accession of more than 90 %, showed the opposite! Let's talk precariously, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The use of service, the so-called "green" doctors hired with green receipts, has become a normal one that costs the State 100 million euros a year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u91	You guys like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u92	It's the promotion of precariousness for whom you promised to end it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u93	Look at PREVPAP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u94	It is clear today that the number of professionals who entered the SNS is insufficient to complete the lack of hours resulting from the change of contracts to 35 hours. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] The government has changed the rules of the game, but nothing has been done to prepare the SNS and the consequences are in sight of everyone. Health services have collapsed, hundreds of service managers have resigned from the country outside and we are only not worse thanks to the dedication, which has limits, of health professionals. But let us not deceive ourselves: in the end, it is always the patients who pay for bad governance. They pay for their health. You promised to end the number of users without access to a family doctor and, after 3 years, we still have more than half a million Portuguese people without coverage. There are more than 60 family health units ready to move to model B that continue in the drawer of Mr. Minister of Finance. This is no longer to speak in continuous care, palliative care or so promised and necessary status of the informal caregiver. You promised everything and in the end you did little or nothing. It's all talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u95	And what did you guys do?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u96	The government charges the Portuguese with taxes, increases public spending and even health can't be a priority. For those who resort to the National Health Service there is only suffering and a deep sense of injustice. We all deserved more than anyone who ruled us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u97	They heard and shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u98	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u99	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It's strange to walk forward walking even backwards. This was the paradox that marked the budgetary course of culture over the years. The lowest ever relative budget — 0, 1 % — achieved sadly by the hands of PSD and CDS in 2015, saw the record exceeded in 2016, also sadly, and was then a cold water bucket. In 2010 we had 0, 29 % of the Budget and 0, 14 % of GDP. A decade earlier, there was 0, 16 % of total central government expenditure and 0, 2 % of GDP. In budgetary terms, it seemed easier to jump to the future of 1 % for culture. Returning to the present, the slow path of fiscal consolidation at the level of expenditure by measures of the culture programme made in this legislature was carried out at a pace of just over EUR 19, 5 million per year, on average, only that the problems accumulated in culture are of such a serious order that they do not match with such shyness at the time of solving. The Budget for 2019 has an increase, which does not reach the relative maximum weight of the past, but also does not reach it! Mr Prime Minister, it is more than time to register the 1 % target for culture in the State Budget and organize a plan with concrete measures to arrive there and to develop a true public service of culture. In the Budgets of this Parliament, the CFP was the only party to make this concrete proposal, precisely at the heart of the Budget, and in the State Budget for 2018 we were the only ones to propose another thing: EUR 25 million for support for the arts. We said it was fundamental to begin to reverse the path of disaster. Months later, the unthinkable results of the sustained support contest had as a response the protests of thousands of people on the street, from north to south of the country. It was perhaps the drop of water that broke out the cry long ago stuck in the throat of many people. Yes, we still need to strengthen support for the arts, at least 25 million, and we need to change a model of support, which was expired at the beginning. As regards heritage, the situation of degradation and insecurity remains and the only way that the Government seems to point out is the pursuit of a policy of alienation and the delivery of buildings classified at the head office of private exploitation, almost completely deresponsibility of its safeguards obligations. We welcome the rescue of the Peniche Fortress to this « privatiser », which has also advanced on the initiative of the CFP, and the plan for its recovery. Very, very much we fought for it! But we do not forget other monuments and sites that need the intervention of the central administration. There's a huge lack of staff. In addition, this reason, coupled with the lack of working conditions and the lack of respect for the right to rest, vacation enjoyment and additional work payment, led to a strike between 25 and 28 October, which included the accession of 100 % of the workers of the ticket, reception and surveillance of the Monastery of Jeromes, the Tower of Bethlehem and the National Museum of Archaeology. The government prefers to spend money on the purchase of automatic ticket machines to strengthen the number of workers, increasingly walking towards the dehumanization and emptying of the technical capacity of museums, palaces, monuments and archaeological sites. The fight against precariousness and exploitation in the field of culture in general, on a public and private level, also needs concrete measures that go beyond mere statement of intentions. But other problems arise. The Cinemateca and the ANIM (National Archive of Images in Movement) need urgent intervention with the necessary means to ensure their fully public nature and the full fulfilment of their mission. They need general revenue from the State budget and cannot live only on their own revenue and fees. Programme contracts with national theatres and OPART (Artistic Production Agency) are a positive but insufficient and late step. Incentives to literary creation and reading must be taken further. A word for extending access to culture: the CFP welcomes the reduction in the VAT rate for shows already enshrined in the Budget, but it is important to consider precisely its enlargement so that it becomes a fairer and more far-reaching measure. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the massification of cultural use is only part of the path that must be made to the fulfilment of the constitutionally consecrated right to culture. To stay here alone is to allow the mercantillization of culture to advance in a galloping way, filling the component of the fruiting only and with market goods only. A genuine democratization of culture also goes through the massification of cultural creation as a guarantee of freedom and as a pillar of democracy. Only concrete measures to 1 % for culture can meet this requirement. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u100	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: One, two, three, four. We are discussing the fourth and final budget of the state of this legislature. Four budgets submitted by the Socialist Party for 4 years of legislation. Four budgets around a project to improve the living conditions of Portuguese, income, employment, trust, while ensuring a historic reduction in deficit, sanitation of public finances and the recovery of our external credibility. Four budgets presented and executed in full under the constant doubt and opposition of those who, on the right, stirred all the ghosts but who, in their time, presented 12 budgets in 4 years, including eight rectifications,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...then because the accounts never hit the right, or because the proposals never hit the right with the Constitution. There were four budgets that met all the targets we presented here in 2015 and of which the first rows of the PSD and CDS then laughed proudly. We remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, but time shows who did and who failed, and if today the country has reasons to smile it is because, while you laugh, we worked, and, contrary to what they said, it was even possible to live better in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The way we went was difficult and demanding, making it compatible with the recovery of the internal shock that the right applied in Portugal with the fulfilment of the budgetary targets and convergence with Europe. It was, in fact, this option that enabled us to improve public accounts. One thing cannot be separated from the other, because we do not choose some State obligations to the detriment of others. For us, they even count all, not only creditors but also workers, but pensioners as well. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] The State Budget for 2019 gives continuity to the course we started three years ago. For us, the Budget does not express a technocratic vision and that is why the Budget encourages, in this House, a political debate that confronts the options of society that distinguish us and divide us. Rule for the majority, rule with social justice, govern for more freedom and full realization for all. The right doesn't realize anything about this. The right still doesn't understand any of this. The right does not understand that the State is the main engine of equity and social mobility, because there is no freedom in poverty or justice in inequality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] That is why we need a strong social state, which guarantees the conditions of individual realization, whether it is born on the coast or on the interior, whether it is rich or poor, whether it is very or little. The Budget shapes this future. Today, as in the past, we know what structural reforms they have made, make and will make a difference in the lives of Portuguese people. This has been the case throughout our history: public social security, public school, National Health Service, founded by António Arnaut — how great, how enormous structural reforms that have the brand of the Socialist Party in our society! But these and other reforms do not fit into the world of opponents of this government. They looked at all budgets, they look at this Budget and they can't see reforms, not because they're not there but because they want theirs, because they think the reforms have to punish, because they think the reforms have to hurt,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... must mean less rights, must mean a permanent attack on the social state and what it represents. But it doesn't have to be that way. We demonstrate that it doesn't have to be like that. in this budget, we value the social state because it represents not only social justice but the ambition and instruments of a better life for everyone, the possibility of each making choices, regardless of their social environment of origin. This is what the social state represents for the Portuguese: freedom! Freedom, which we assume in the heart of this government and in the heart of this State Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Freedom, which the Portuguese recognise in our budgetary options: the 19% of poor Portuguese people with whom we started this legislation and who are today less because they have had more protection; the Portuguese people who had, and have, their minimum wage increased by 95 €, over 4 years of legislation; the Portuguese people who need the National Health Service, who have already recovered with us of the EUR 1000 million that the right cut during their governance; the Portuguese people who today pay less EUR 1000 million in IRS, and it was certainly not, because of a certain simulator, days before the elections;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... pensioners, who not only had their pension returned as increased; the children of the public school, who today have free school textbooks; the true middle class, not the middle class of the CDS, the middle class that does not have houses of more than half a million euros to pay additional to the IMI, which, among other things, strengthens the sustainability of social security for all. In all this and much more we talk about Budget and, therefore, we talk about justice. We're talking about society options. For this, we have made, and we do, options such as the careful management of public accounts and the quality of our expenditure, which are understood by the country but which leave our opponents somewhat or as confused. It is because we show, when we do different, that we do better, fulfilling the budgetary goals, and our political opponents do not know what they are going to say: now we have fantastic goals, or their fulfilment reveals a huge obsession with the deficit; now the Budget is electoralist, second, fourth and sixth, now it is austerity, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. And today, as it is Tuesday, we have already had accusations of austerity on the part of the PSD. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand! They understand but tell us, above all, what they would do differently and explain clearly to the Portuguese people, but they also explain clearly, in your options, that taxes would increase to justify alternative options or that options that are in our Budget would cut to do others that would not benefit Portuguese so much. Tell us what budgetary options they would take and what those they disagreed with, one of the most unequal countries in Europe, options that we value as the centrality of social justice in this Budget: updating the indexer of social support; automatic and extraordinary updating of pensions, those you wanted to cut in 600 million euros during this Parliament ;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... increase in family allowance and extension of 4. the step; social provision for inclusion; support for long-term unemployed; increased access to RSI (social income of insertion) to more families with children in the aggregate; reinforcing solidarity for the elderly. What measures did you disagree with? What measures would you propose alternatively? Tell us! Tell us, because it is through these and other priorities that the Socialist Party has entered into the State Budget, with the support of its parliamentary allies, that we realize our vision for the country and we move away from the right, from the ideas that they wanted to impose on the Portuguese, blaming them, impoverishing them, throwing them against each other, I repeat, throwing them against each other. Balance, freedom, social justice, dignity, are four marks for the fourth Budget, which is the manifesto to a future country where we can all live better without so many others having to stay behind, living worse. This is not electoralism, this is good governance. Success is not ours, it's all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u102	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has a request for clarification from the Member of the PSD Teresa Leal Coelho, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u103	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers and Mr. Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro : I should first of all clarify what the PSD Parliamentary Group is not confused and should not explain. Who owes explanations, and now has the opportunity to give them, is Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, who came here to defend this budget and in it he will vote in favour. That is why you should speak clearly not only in Parliament but also in Portuguese. About the Budget for 2019, we heard about rigor. « This is a budget of rigour», has been said and repeated. Even today, in this Parliament, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs said: 'It is a proper budget based on realistic projections'. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, Mrs Deputies and Mrs. Members, in democracy and in the rule of law, when speaking in budgetary rigour, speak in transparency. Now, the Budget we are discussing here today has one feature: it has two sides. One face presented on 15 October in this Parliament and another face presented on 16 October in Brussels. And these two aspects of the 2019 Budget amount to EUR 590 million, Mr. The Government argues with technical questions, but the question that Parliament needs to be clarified, clearly speaking, the question that has to be taken before the Portuguese is of simple equation: where will the government cut the EUR 590 million? Are you going to cut or postpone investments in health? Are you going to postpone promised hospitals for more than 3 years? Will you continue to fail to fulfill promises you have made or commitments you have made with the parliamentary groups that support you? Are you going to cut education or increase taxes, increase revenue by 590 million euros? The answer to these questions must be given to this Parliament, at the expense of Parliament, to resign from its role in the matter of budgetary amendments to the Assembly of the Republic. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if Parliament is going to vote on a budget not knowing what expenditure and investments the Government does not intend to make in each of the budget programmes, the approval of expenditure limits with an amount of EUR 590 million for all programmes will allow the Government to opt for the transfer of funds between programmes, it will allow the Government to do so on the basis of any authorization from the Assembly of the Republic, it will allow the Government to do so - outside the law, distorting an exclusive competence of the Assembly of the Republic. Another thing we can not fail to conclude before this Budget. There is an intentional government budget, which he hides from this Parliament, that he hides from the Portuguese, but which will make sense in his daily life in 2019, either because the government will increase revenue, either because the government will decrease spending where well he understands, introducing captives, that is, cuts. And it can be in health, education, I have already said it, in security, in combating fires, in valuing Portuguese, it can be where the Government fully understands, apart from any supervision by the Assembly of the Republic. It is a blank check that the government's partners, who will approve this budget, will pass it and that can be very expensive, electorally speaking, next year. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the budgetary objectives of this government? It is a matter that we should see clarified here and therefore I appeal to the honourable Member. Mr Mário Centeno said, quoting what was the prophecy of a very recent bad moment in the financial and budgetary plane, which left us without money to pay wages or pensions, nor the National Health Service nor anything, that "there is life beyond the deficit". But what's the deficit? The deficit presented in this Parliament or in Brussels? In the Budget there is a forecast of revenue and there is a forecast of expenditure and the difference between them is not change! Between EUR 975 million of measures submitted to Members and EUR 385 million of measures submitted to Brussels there is no technical difference, there is a difference of EUR 590 million. This difference has to be explained, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, and the question I put to you is precisely this. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be deluded, don't be deluded! As much as you wish, neither Minister Mário Centeno can make two more than four, either in Portugal or Brussels. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u104	To reply, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u105	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, I believe that the question you asked me reveals, above all, the problem of bringing written questions before hearing what speakers are saying. It is that, in fact, let me tell you, you have not asked anything about what I said in the rostrum. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In any event, if I understood correctly, he asked what was the difference or, more specifically, the distance between the Lisbon budget and the Brussels budget. Yeah, I think it's 2048 km, which is the distance between Lisbon and Brussels, and that there will be no more differences besides this,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u106	All right! [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u107	... but we will have the opportunity to hold this debate in the field of expertise. The honourable Member spoke of good accounts and rigour. Perhaps I do not know, but I reinforce that the social security balance—that is what I talked about in my speech—was almost twice as high as planned for the whole of the year by September. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] And this was done with transparency, strictness, better accounts and more social protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u109	She also spoke about the differences that sometimes arise between documents that are presented in Portugal and those that are going to Brussels. And it was good to talk about this, as it should be remembered that the stability programme that you presented in 2015 had a slight problem of EUR 600 million. Do you know what the problem was? It was the EUR 600 million cut in paid pensions in Portugal, which you wanted to make in this legislature and which have never explained until today! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Loyal Rabbit.]] But instead of talking about cuts, we can talk about options, which you, by the way, do not follow in the context of social security and social protection, which are examples: the increase in social unemployment benefit by EUR 5, EUR 1 million in this Budget; the increase of EUR 153 million in the social benefit for inclusion ( PSI) in the Budget for the coming year; the increase of EUR 2 million in 2018, and EUR 45, EUR 5 million in 2019 in the solidarity complement for the elderly ( CIS ), which you have cut, increasing poverty among the elderly ;... [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] ... the updating of the IAS (indicating social support) by more than 7, 4 %; the increase in family allowances by 8, 7 %; the increase in the amount of funding for cooperation by 5, 5 %; the 16 000 pensioners covered by justice for long-term contributions; the increase in pensions, which, between extraordinary and regular, corresponds to more than 422 million euros in the 2019 budget; the support measure for long-term unemployed; the increase of 10 % for unemployed couples and single-parent families; the new reform scheme for stone workers—in short, increases, increases, greater social protection; and the strengthening of social security sustainability. Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, in four years, we have increased the sustainability projection of the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security in 19 years. You know why? Because we have improved not only the quantity but also the quality of employment in Portugal, with policies against which you have always fought. Therefore, it is legitimate for the PSD to be against this Budget, which improves accounts, improves sustainability and improves social protection. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] We can always do better and we have the ambition to keep doing better. The problem is that we continue without knowing PSD proposals to do better and is about to be born a PSD government that has better results than the Socialist Party government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Deputies Protests António Topa and Joana Barata Lopes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u110	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diagnosis of access to housing in our country is done. We have high costs with housing, precarious rental, clearing facilitation, difficulties in access to housing, particularly for young people and low-income families, families living in unconditional housing, IHRU housing park (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilição Urbana, IP ) degraded. What is needed is an alternative policy that definitely breaks with the interests of economic and financial groups, with the financing and speculation in the real estate sector. The realization of the right to a decent housing for all passes through the determining role of the State in promoting housing; through the mobilization of public housing property for lease in supported or conditioned income schemes; by assuming a policy of soils that opposes real estate speculation; by creating instruments that allow unwarrantedly returned housing to be used for lease; and by accountability of the central administration by the direction and management of housing policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u113	In the area of housing, the proposed State Budget Act for 2019 does not break with the political options for favouring the interests of economic and financial groups which over the decades speculated with a fundamental good — housing — and from there they have obtained horrendous profits at the cost of forced indebtedness of families. The Government continues to leave the intervention in this area in the hands of the private sector and the so-called « market », which have already shown that they do not solve the problem of access to housing, giving the State an additional role, absent from direct intervention in the provision of public housing to meet housing needs. Thus, the government's deresponsibility in guaranteeing constitutional right to housing remains. Housing cannot be treated as a mere commodity with which it can be speculated on the basis of such markets, insofar as it fulfils a social function and must therefore be used primarily for solving problems in the country. By analyzing the proposal, we find that the level of investment in housing is clearly insufficient and does not allow for the quantitative and qualitative leap that the situation requires. The Government refers to an investment of EUR 40 million under 1. Law — Access to Housing Support Programme, with a view to the re-housing of families living today in inundated housing, as an important step. Without doubt, the objective of eliminating precarious housing and ensuring dignity to families is relevant,... [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] ... but the government has forgotten to mention that it has pushed the full responsibility for the implementation of this Programme for Authorities, when this is a responsibility of the central administration. In the case of renting, instead of following the proposal of the CFP for the repeal of the law on landfills — the appropriate solution for the purpose of curbing the waste and protecting tenants properly — the Government opts to assign tax coupons to owners who increase the durability of the contract. The lease policy is not fiscal policy, nor is it the allocation of tax benefits to funds and financial groups, the large beneficiaries of these measures, which will arise more housing for rent. It is also not the 20% reduction in the value of income, having as reference the market value, in exchange for tax benefits to owners, as proposed by the Accessible Rent Program, which guarantees the access of families to housing. For example, a family that earns an average salary will only be covered by this Program if the income value, already with the projected reduction, is up to 754 €. Now, when the value of the income of a T2 in Lisbon is between 1000 € and 1500 €, it is quickly concluded that finding a house with adequate living conditions and area according to the size of the family aggregate, to be covered by this Program, is like " finding a needle in a straw". from the experience of other European cities that have moved forward with identical measures, what is concluded is that accessibility is only for those who earn income above average. There is an elitization of urban centres and historic centres, insofar as families with lower incomes are being expelled to give rise to families with very high incomes, and government proposals do not put an end to this scourge. The CFP will continue to halt the battle by a housing policy that serves the interests of the people, where the State assumes a decisive role in promoting public housing that implements the constitutional design of the right to housing. In the discussion of this budget, in the field of expertise, we will put forward proposals in this direction. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u114	For an intervention, on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal for a State budget, particularly in the area of social security, has the mark of what has been done well in this Parliament and which exactly contrasts with the previous one. So instead of cutting income, we have recovered them; instead of taking 600 million pensions every year, we have updated them; instead of promoting the shrinking of the economy, which causes unemployment and undermines the sustainability of social security, we have valued work and we have sought to correct inequalities. The right has no speech on this Budget, because it varies between two contradictory theses: now it says that everything is missing and that this is an Austerity Budget, now it says its opposite, that this Budget has too much. They are two naturally incompatible versions, but in this debate, all on the right has been confusion and dissimulation. However, we are concerned. The pensioners win with this Budget because they know that in the negotiation we made in 2015 we guarantee them an automatic increase in the pension every year. In 2019 the nearly 3 million pensioners will have an increase in their pensions and, for the overwhelming majority, this increase will be above inflation, since we agreed already in 2015 that it would be so. With the extraordinary increase, which took place this year in January, more than 1 million pensioners will finally recover the purchasing power that was withdrawn from them by the PSD and the CDS in the years of austerity and the previous government. For minimum pensions, which had not yet incorporated into their value the impact of previous extraordinary increases, this will be done this year. This is a mark on the left in this Budget, but above all it is a mark of justice for those who have worked a whole life. The update of the social support indexer, also included in the Budget, means that the value of all social benefits will be updated. We are talking about the solidarity complement for the elderly, precisely the performance that the right has cut and the value of which will be updated again; we are talking about the social income of insertion, that the right devilizes, but that is what remains—and it is so little! — to whom you have nothing, to whom you live in poverty, particularly to unhindered citizens and citizens; we are talking about the 10% cut in unemployment benefit that the PSD and the CDS have made and that we have cancelled last year. In the field of the protection of the unemployed, which is one of the most concerned to us, because there are so many people who stay out of this protection, in this Budget there is a measure that comes from behind: extraordinary support for the long-term unemployed and that are six months without benefit, for which we have been able to agree, Block of Left and Government, a new step that can make the difference. I am talking about the amendment to the rules for the benefit of the unemployment allowance, i.e. a benefit which makes the bridge between unemployment and early retirement for those over 52 years old, has already lost the unemployment allowance, because their duration has been exhausted, but has not found the employment you are entitled to and is not yet old enough to receive an early retirement pension. This Budget also has important advances for those with children. The family allowance is still in progress, since No 2. the 2019 semester, for example 1. the step, up to 3 years old, will reach 150, 25 €— almost 40 € for some families— but all steps will have increases. In the social provision for inclusion, the second and third stages are implemented, in particular with regard to the extension of protection for children and young people with disabilities. Despite these progress, there is still a long way to go, where the speciality is discussed. We have a very important standard that recognises the wear of stonework workers, but, in the field of specialty, we need to extend this rule, including not only those who do stone extraction, but also those who cut it, side by side with those who do extraction. We were able to enter into the State budget proposal a commitment on caregivers. This is the first time that the law makes a reference to the care provided by informal caregivers. This is a compromise of great symbolic importance, but we know that it is still a compromise and not a concrete measure. The rule in the Budget is important, but it also requires a status of caregivers, which must be approved in this Budget, and we do not forget it or lower our arms, despite the resistance we have found.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u117	Finally, a note on the early pensions and the work we have for the specialty. In 2017 a new regime was born to value the very long contributions careers. This regime had a first phase, with the aim of ending both penalties, that of the sustainability factor and monthly penalty, for those who began to discount before the age of 16 and have 46 years of discounts when requesting reform. This first phase was completed in October of this year. The second and third phases were related to another group, to those who began to discount before or until they were 20 years old. For these workers it was possible to agree that it would end not with the two penalties—we did not have the agreement of the Government to do so—but with one of the penalties, that of the sustainability factor. We strongly insisted that these two phases should be fully implemented during the legislature and that was included in the Budget. What has not been included in the Budget and has no majority support is the possibility of restricting access to early pensions only to those included in this criterion. Another challenge and work for the specialty: clarify that the rules that currently exist for the other pensioners are maintained and further advanced in this field, ending with the sustainability factor for all early pensions, defending or proposing and realising that pensioners who have more than 40 years of discounts should have a customised reduction of retirement age—for each year over 40 years of discounts, one year less at the age of retirement. And pensioners who have had high pension cuts because of previous rules must also pay attention to this budget. We need to work on a complement to repair the injustice that these pensioners have been targeted, and that is also a challenge of the speciality of the debate that we will have. This is the work we will do, it is the work to do justice to those who work, it is the work to do justice to pensioners, to value wages and pensions, which is the mark of the success of this political solution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u118	Mr Luís Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Soeiro, I would like to congratulate you and tell you that today we look at the rearviewer and it seems that it was easy to reach all the achievements that have been listed in the rostrum. It seems it was easy, but in reality it did a lot and a lot of work. And we remember the last three years and we realized that the speech of inevitability, the discourse that there would be no other way was a speech that had both false and wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u121	And it was a speech that we, the Socialist Party, the majority who support the Socialist Party Government, indeed, ended up demystifying.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u123	A very relevant aspect of the discussion that has brought here—and we will not anticipate the debate that we will do in the specialty—is precisely that of strengthening social protection that is brought by the State Budget for 2019. But there is also a second dimension which is fundamental. It is that, despite all the measures listed here, which strengthen the budget for social security and the social protection of Portuguese, the Socialist Party and this proposal for the State budget realize and achieve an effective strengthening of the sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u125	And how exactly is that done? How is it possible to strengthen the social protection of Portuguese and, at the same time, to ensure the sustainability of social security? This can be done with a dimension that is absolutely decisive: certain accounts, meeting the objectives we define, reducing the deficit, reducing the indebtedness. And that, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Soeiro, possibly, is the reason that allows the Socialist Party to reach 2018, looking at the rearviewer, aware of the work that has been done, with the certainty that the future will be easier and, above all, that it is worth walking on this track.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u127	The Socialist Party has done a work, in conjunction with the parties that support it, and that this speciality will also confirm, which goes in the direction of fulfilling the objectives that we define. And, therefore, these two dimensions — the sustainability of social security and the strengthening of social protection — are a patent that we proudly shadow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u128	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the strengthening of the sustainability of social security has not been achieved because of the goals of the deficit, it has been done because there has been job creation, because there has been an increase in the minimum wage, because there is a fight against precariousness, because it has sought to start rebuilding the economy. That is why the challenge of the sustainability of social security is precisely the most paid wage — and we have so much to do in labour law, Mr President! — what is more about combating precariousness — and we have so much way to go! — what is more employment — and we have so much to do! — and that the sources of social security financing can also be diversified. The honourable Member has told us about work and we know the work that this debate has given us. We know how important it was to have a tax on luxury heritage, which goes back to the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security (FEFSS ), but we know that, in order to do justice in the long-contributory careers, to do justice to those who have a working life, we also need to do this debate. And we, for our part, do not steal from him, we have concrete proposals and with them we will continue to hold this discussion in the specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u130	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, Pedro Jesus Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on the fourth and final budget of the Parliament is, on its own, a sign of dual success of this government and of this government solution. First of all, because this government solution has provided conditions of political stability that enable us to comply with the legislation. Secondly, because the Budgets that we approved deeply disillusioned the sighters of Belzebu, that we had an additional shock yesterday, which said that the income of families could not be increased, that pensions could not be increased, that the minimum wage could not be increased or that cuts in wages could be eliminated and that the public accounts were kept balanced. On the contrary, the return of income was an essential part of the strategy that led us to economic growth, to the creation of more than 320 000 jobs and to the presentation, year after year, of the lowest public deficit in the history of Portuguese democracy. Returning income was also essential for the recovery of domestic demand, which was always the main reason given by entrepreneurs not to invest. With investment improving the competitiveness of companies and the country, it is with investment that generates better jobs. The acceleration of the Community funds we have made, by beating historical records of business incentive payments, which have already reached EUR 1800 million in Portugal 2020, has also given a strong impetus to business investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u133	As a result, private investment has grown, employment has increased and the economy has grown above the average of our European partners. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But public investment has also increased and continues to grow, with the central government registering an increase of 30 % in investment by September this year. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is on the basis of these positive results that the State Budget for 2019 pursues the strategy of recovery of income and strengthening public investment, for more growth, better employment and greater equality. In 2019, central government investment will again increase by more than 20 %, representing more than 380 million euros invested in public services and critical infrastructures. This budget envisages the strengthening of the investment in rail, the great bet of this government, with the continuation of the works that we have placed on the ground in all the main railway corridors... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... and the launch of new projects, such as the construction of the new line between Évora and Elvas, which will be the largest construction of new railway line, in the last 100 years, in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's true, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as it costs some, we will begin next year the biggest railway construction work of the last 100 years. But it is not just this line, there are many railway lines that are in works and we will also have, for the first time, in many decades, the reopening of a line that has been closed for a decade, allowing trains to recirculate between Covilhã and Guarda. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] This is also the Budget in which we will implement the undertaking to acquire new rolling stock for the COP. We are thus betting on rail, but also on our ports, to make our companies more competitive in the international framework. But also on the highway we have an important public investment effort in the State Budget for 2019, including such important works as the start of the comprehensive requalification of the IP3, between Coimbra and Viseu, the conclusion of the A25 near the border, the maintenance works of the 25 April Bridge, the works of the variant to EN14, between Maia and the Family, or the long ambitioned access to the Arouca and Coura Walls. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] The Budget also includes the start of expansion works in the metropolitans of Lisbon and Porto, the acquisition of rolling stock for the meters and ships for the Transtejo, the construction and remodeling of dozens of health centres and the beginning of the process of building the hospitals of Eastern Lisbon, Sixtal, Sintra, Évora and Funchal. It involves investment in the network of schools throughout the country or in national defence equipment, including ocean patrol vessels, essential to ensure the sovereignty of our maritime area, but also an important incentive to national production. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More investment, more competitiveness, more cohesion. Investment in the economy has grown very expressively, and also in the construction sector, with an increase of 18 % in the last year in relation to the annual average investment in the period of the previous government. It is a very significant volume: more than EUR 2400 million injected into the economy only in one year, in this sector determining for our country, which is the construction sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this investment in the construction sector, a careful investment, allowed 38 000 jobs in the construction sector in Portugal to be created during the last three years. This was also an important impetus for the recovery of employment in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2019, the growth of the economy will be strongly driven by investment with more than 20 % increase in central government investment, making economic growth healthy and have prospects for continuity. The State budget for 2019 will therefore also be good for public investment, good for the economy and businesses, good for territorial cohesion, good for Portuguese. More investment, less debt; more employment, less poverty. In short, a good budget for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u134	Mr Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, Bureau records 11 entries for requests for clarification, to which Mr Minister will respond jointly, from then on, to the first three and then to two groups of four. Let us begin with the request for clarification from Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Minister Pedro Marques, as we have come to say, the proposal for a State Budget for 2019 has included an important set of advances, the result of the struggle of workers and the decisive intervention of the CFP, which do not delete a central issue: the Budget is limited by the options that characterize the Government, which limit the full response to the problems of the country. The Government knows that the CFP continues to stress the issue of public investment precisely because it is an essential aspect where this limitation also occurs. And here are three questions: the size of the budgeted investment, the implementation of what is budgeted and the transparency of what is budgeted. It is that the growth announced for public investment in recent years has to be considered not in a short-term logic but in a broader perspective. We are far from the levels of 2009, 2010 or 2011, even at current prices, and at constant prices we are almost half of the values of a decade ago in public investment. And this translates into the concrete life of people, it translates into trains that are needed, far beyond the 22 regional ones, and that need to repair, modernise and acquire, in ships that need to be put to work — today, in the Barreiro, the morning was again unbearable for users and workers — in the road and rail network that it is urgent to maintain and rehabilitate, but also in schools, health centres, teams, nearby investments. It is customary to say that « the cheap goes expensive» and, already, this is an example of the tragic mistake, which we are still going to avoid, from the new airport at Montijo Air Base. But the question arises of the works, which should be ready, and are late, showing the insufficient execution of the investment that has been budgeted. There is a brutal weight of PPPs in spending, but there is no need to move forward with fundamental works on the ground. The Government must comply with what is approved, such as the CFP, systematically, has come to stress. Mr Minister, we want to reaffirm here that transparency in the definition of public investments, essential to the development of the country, is a democratic requirement. It is impracticable to be discussing investment in a proposal for a State Budget which does not allow for a concrete analysis of the projects that are planned. There is a need for clear and detailed information on the investments that give rise to these numbers, by sector and responsible entity, with programming, timing, sources of funding, otherwise this discussion is abstract and does not translate real life. This budget covers several important measures, one of which is a proposal and demand of the CFP many years ago, which is the extension of social passes and the reduction of transport costs for the population. We have always said that this is a central issue, even for the promotion of public transport. But for this to happen, there must be public transport, there must be circulating material throughout the network — now, and not just in the region within a few years — there must be, in the maintenance and operation of transport, more workers with fair rights and wages. And, too, we welcome the struggle of IP workers ( Infrastructures of Portugal ) and the whole sector. The question we put, Mr Minister, is about the bill that is being paid and will pay for the PS Government's option not to break, in essential matters, with this right-wing policy that has so badly done to the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u136	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Luís Moreira Testa, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u137	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, today reveals an unbelievable and incomprehensible behaviour of the right-wing banks, particularly the PSD. If we saw here yesterday, before the Minister of Finance, the rhetoric of the wedding to the poor and the rich, today we witness the fervent cry in the demand for investment and the execution of public expenditure,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u139	... in addition to all incomprehensible and comprehensible goals in this or any Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moreover, the performance of the PSD is so incomprehensible that it fights the narrative of the last four years supported by the PSD, in a government that has done nothing but alienate the TTCs, without guarantees from the public service provided to the people and the interior of the country. [[All right!]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u140	But more than that, without any guarantee for the workers of the company who today are in a true nightmare of misunderstanding in front of the company and in front of society. The privatisation of TAP was done in 25. the time, as we all know, and removed the state from the strategic vision that a flag company needs to have. The business of ANA, the business of CP Cargo, what happened in EMEF and that was restored by this government, for the sake of the railway and the circulating material that serves the populations. The dismantling of the railway line and railway transport, which is indeed a good example, as the Minister of Planning and Infrastructure recalls, the weekly train connecting to Portalegre, which was first suppressed and, on the eve of elections, was returned once a week, because, in the view of the benches on the right and the previous government, Portalegre was so far away that it only justified having a weekly train. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u141	The Budget presented to us today, here, by the Government of the Socialist Party, supported by a left-wing majority, is a Budget of public policies, of public policies that serve citizens, who serve companies that create jobs and create wealth, who serve the country, who serve Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u143	It is not a Budget which, as in the past, only serves the policy of the private, and of some private, with the dismantling of the State at an accelerated, continuous and irreversibly pace.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u145	The policy of the Socialist Party, which supports the government, is clear and objective and can be « concise» in an expression: « A budget for all, and for all without exception! When public investment is increased, it must be known that this increase may not only mean wealth increase for some, few, the increase in public investment must mean an increase in wealth for all and be a promoter of territorial cohesion. That is why we in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group not only feel comfortable with this budget proposal as we support it, secondly, we sign it and praise it, because proposals like this allow Portugal to be a prosperous, cohesive and developed country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u146	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u147	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Planning and Infrastructure, the Government has presented public investment, associated with domestic consumption, as an engine for the development of economic growth and, over these three years, has promised much in terms of public investment, until it has propagated it, but in fact it has not fulfilled. I have here a chart showing how they treated and executed the investment over these three years. [[At the moment, the speaker displayed a chart on public investment between 2015 and 2018.]] After the historical minimum of 2016, and it is necessary to retreat many decades to find so little public investment, it may be that in 2018, if things go well, they can achieve and realize the same public investment that was made in 2015, the first year in which we were free of the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u148	It's gonna be hard!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u149	If they had maintained the public investment levels of 2015 today, we would have accumulated more than EUR 1500 million in public investment, which could have been invested in the country, for the benefit of the Portuguese, and it was not because you couldn't even reach that level. But this court, Minister, was not a transparent court. It would be a transparent cut if it had been announced in the different budgets: « In 2016, we will not be able to make the public investment of 2015, in 2017 we will not be able to make the public investment of 2015 »... But it was not so! You have always propagated, you have always announced public investments that have not been realized, and here I have another chart explaining well the cuts in public investment, between what has been budgeted and what has been achieved. The speaker presented another chart on the public investment presented but not implemented, between 2016 and 2018. It was almost 800 million in 2015, more than 600 million in 2017 and this year we'll see how it's going to run, but it's still below what was promised. I said that with the investment levels of 2015, we could have invested more EUR 1500 million in Portugal. And the question is this: what could have been done in favor of Portugal and the Portuguese, with this money? Is that the situation we are in today? Could you not have invested more in schools? Could not some of the urgent requalification works in hospitals, which have been postponed for three years, already be implemented? Oh, my God! Would we have been here yesterday for the fourth time by the Minister of Finance, of the same hospitals that you are announcing, of Budget Budget, since 2016? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u150	Mr. Minister of Planning, could the competition for the acquisition of trains, which are now promised to 2023, not have been launched in 2016 or 2017, so that they could finally reach the Portuguese? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] And all these cuts were made with whom? Convience and applause from the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, who enthusiastically support this public investment policy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u151	Complicity! They're the brides!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u153	With the history of the implementation of the first graph that I have shown, with the history of cuts of the second graph, over these years, "now it will be, with the State Budget for 2019 it will be". And here's the reigning optimism among all management partners: "Let's make sure we do everything behind us, now it's really going to be serious." How can the Portuguese believe, if the three-year history is that of the courts? Oh, my God! Promise, promise, and execute little. That is why, Minister, the truth is one: in good social school, what we have seen in recent weeks, and we will see over the next few months, until there are elections for next year, it is a set of government members to announce works for 2021 and 2022. They even hit each other! I would say more, Minister: if each one carried a shovel and a bucket of cement, many of these works would now be half done. [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter, with PSD applauded.]] Mr Minister, second item: social passes. Excellent measure: social passes for all, cheaper transport for all Portuguese, use the State budget, taxes of all Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u154	That's what you guys did! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u155	... so that all Portuguese can, in fact, be transported cheaper. But this is not what we have on the table! What we have is that, supposedly—and it is a good opportunity for the Government to clarify—the taxes of all Portuguese will serve to reduce transport in Lisbon and Porto. What's this? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] So, the Portuguese of Aveiro, Braga, Famalicão, Viseu, and so many others, who already have their public transports costed by municipal taxes, will they still cost the passes in Lisbon and Porto? Oh, my God! And what about places in Portugal where there isn't even transportation? Oh, my God! What do you say to those Portuguese people? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u156	How can you talk about cohesion, about combating internality, about fighting asymmetries, if an excellent idea, I repeat, an excellent idea, which is to make the Portuguese pay less for transport, will be paid for those who don't even have transport? Oh, my God! How is that possible? How do they fight asymmetries? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u157	The law in force is yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u158	Mr Minister, explain this measure to a citizen of Armamar, who, when he has to go to the Hospital de Lamego for any purpose, be a consultation, whatever it is, has a transportation possibility: to catch the school transport leaving Armamar early in the morning to Lamego and wait for the end of the day to return to it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u159	To respond to these three requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers for Planning and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u160	Mr President, Mr Luís Testa, yes, this is a budget which reinforces public investment and which places it on territorial cohesion. Mrs. Deputies Bruno Dias and Emídio Guerreiro, this Budget is not based on empty promises, and I am already going to the history of empty promises in electoral time, but in concrete execution that enables us now to support the 2019 proposal. And here I am going to give a clear example: to meet the public investment target envisaged in the 2018 Budget, which you say is unattainable by the central government, it should grow 27 % compared to 2017. They know how much the central government's investment is growing right now at the end of the 3rd. o quarter of 2018? It's growing 30%, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u161	Now it's gonna be!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u162	So when you guys are. Members say we're promising what we're not gonna do,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u163	It's history, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u164	... I say that the implementation of 2018 is the best witness we can give in relation to the proposal we make for 2019, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to tell you that we are not now announcing works, we are now making the investment that we had to prepare over the previous two years. [[PSD protests.]] [[CDS-PP laughter.]] This is because when we arrived at the government and about electoral promises, what we found in the Ministry of Infrastructure was a plan called the "Proximity Plan". So the "Proximity Plan" had EUR 500 million of road investment across the country. You heard well: 500 million euros of investment on the road! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The infrastructure in Portugal had EUR 10 million per year for works on the road, but the government was promising EUR 500 million throughout the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They left us there, but they didn't leave any projects! Even the former Prime Minister, Pedro Passos Coelho, who boasted not to go to the openings, was there he, in the pre-election campaign, for the IP3, to throw another first stone. But when we got to Ministry, we saw that neither the project to do the work was left there, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. They didn't even leave the project there! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of PSD and CDS-PP, having PSD members beaten with their hands at the tops of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u165	Have shame! You son of a bitch! It's just bulldozers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u166	Mr Bruno Dias, yes, execute public investment to make the difference in the real life of Portuguese. Yes, investment in our railway, reopening lines that were closed and making a new railway line, which is the largest rail investment of the last 100 years, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u167	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u168	Yes, investment in Transtejo ships, CP trains and meters. Yes, investment in dozens of schools and health centres and our ocean patrol ships, supporting the national industry. These are investments to make a difference in the lives of Portuguese, in education, in health, in rail and also in public transport, in support of public transport throughout the country. The demagogy of Mr Emídio Guerreiro will not pass!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u169	Demagogy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u170	The public transport support programme is for the whole country and for all public transport! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it's not just for the passes, it's to support the passes, but it's also to support the improvement of the supply where it doesn't exist or where it's insufficient. We will promote public transport,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u171	For everyone?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u172	... the decarbonization of the economy, the replacement of individual transport by public transport, we will improve the quality of life of the Portuguese and support their incomes, because today, throughout the country, there are entire families who pay almost a minimum wage for the passage to four people. [[PSD protests.]] These families will have a great improvement in their income and will be able to use public transport for their daily lives. So support the middle class, so support the Portuguese families! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u173	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the second group of requests for clarification. To that end, Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u174	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, with the friendship you know I have, I give you the courage because your Ministry is the most hundredth of all ministries.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u176	And using the image that the President of the CDS used yesterday, you are the best of the Secretary of State of Minister Mário Centeno. Your Ministry is what better explains the difference between promise and execution and between announcement and failure. It's the Ministry of Achievement!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u178	And I give you the courage, because you can still come here to make a speech of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u179	It's a disembarkation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u180	Therefore, Mr Minister, I wish you good luck tomorrow to explain to the companies and the transport sector this wonder of yesterday's election announcement, that you will pay more for gas than for gasoline, because the supplement on the ISP, in the gas oil, does not go down. This is a lie that already comes from the First Budget, because they already said there would be fiscal neutrality. Today, the explanation is another and, after all, only goes down in gasoline and not gas oil. Mr President, you will certainly have to explain to transport companies why they are treated differently. But, Minister, I would perhaps like us to go to the concrete and talk about concrete works, to know who is telling the truth. At first, you came to talk about the reversal of the entire public transport sector. They would even say that the support of the Block and the PCP was useful in maintaining the quality and public transport service. I heard here that logic was to restore income and guarantee rights. The replacement of income is nothing more, had already come from the previous government;... [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] ... as regards the guarantee of rights, here begins the ambush. As for the guarantee of rights, as far as the quality of the National Health Service is concerned, it has become worse, as far as quality of education is concerned, and as far as the public transport sector is concerned, there is no memory of such large degradation in the public transport service. [[CDS-PP applause.]] You don't have to go too far. Today, it will pass a television report on the Tomar-Lisboa line, where there are users who pay for their monthly social pass more than 200 € and come completely stacked, in a huge degradation of the quality of public services. They're people who come to work... Mr Bruno Dias is shaking his head, in a positive sense, and that is true. The honourable Member knows it's true...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u181	The problem is how it started, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u182	... that you are responsible for the further degradation of public transport services. We can now move on to the road sector. And Mr. Minister says: "Well, let's start what wasn't even on paper, which is the work of IP3." But was it not Mr. Minister and his government that promised EUR 1 million for the requalification of IP3 in 2017? Oh, my God! Was that requalification done? But wasn't it you and Mr. Prime Minister who were in Oliveira at the hospital last week? Were IC6 inaugurated? It is that IC6 had 38 million euros to run in July 2017. As far as I know, the work has not been inaugurated, Minister! Tell me if you have 1 € invested in CI6, which is only in the region most affected by fires. This demonstrates the insensitivity of this government! Where is territorial cohesion? [[CDS-PP applause.]] I am referring now to the National Investment Programme. Mr. Minister spoke in territorial cohesion and in helping the country as a whole, but he is delaying, delaying, delaying. The consequence is that climate change, which already affects the interior, will not be left alone. We've been dry since we've had too much rain. The National Climate Change and Water Investment Programme has zero effect. It has a zero effect, Minister! On Railway 2020, I don't know what it says: 5 % of implementation in the last Budget of the Parliament should make any ruler ashamed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u183	I'm not asking for new work, I'm asking for work that you promised. I have here the Budget for 2017, which says where the works would be executed this year: North Line, Douro Line – the work in the caíde-Marco section is three years behind, and I'm talking to you only about 40 and a few kilometers away —, Minco Line, South International Corridor, North International Corridor. This was done in 2017. If I can prove that any of these works are running, say. But I can go further. This budget also refers to aid to businesses, the real economy, the interior and the launch of the Business Area Valuation Programme. I know that Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister opened a work in Arouca last week. Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister, they are very late! And that's why I'm not asking for new investment or new work, I'm just asking when they do what they promise, when they take the country's governance seriously, when they tell the Portuguese truth. That's all.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u185	Finally, Mr Minister, referring to savings in PPPs, the Portuguese Communist Party says there is a huge expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u186	The PCP is very calm!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u187	Tell me what you've achieved, how many contracts have already been renegotiated and what quality TAP presents today. Mr Minister, I can tell you that in fact the 'Central Budget', which rhymes with 'busts',...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u188	He's got a poor rhyme!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u189	... maybe give to make a kick with friends, but certainly not to look forward to better future for the Portuguese. It's a simple but very true image. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u190	To request clarification, Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u191	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Planning and Infrastructure, the imposition of tolls by the PSD/CDS government in the SCUT was a terrible mistake because it aggravated the existing difficulties, made life difficult for people and businesses, boosted traffic accidents and filled the dealers' pockets. in the latter case, only road PPPs lead to taxpayers about EUR 1500 million per year — a real scandal and one of the biggest economic crimes committed in the country, in addition to the lack of money for investment in public services, health and education. But the current government has not yet had the courage to face the powerful obscure interests of these PPPs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u192	They're the ones who created them!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u193	Before, the apology was the troika. Now, what's the excuse? It can only be the continuation of the sacrifice, in the name of the deficit zero. [[PSD protests.]] Let's look at the case of the Way of the Child in the Algarve. It is a way financed from Community funds, without technical characteristics of motorways, but the State pays the dealership around EUR 30 million annually and still pays for maintaining the route. It's a really bad contract. Without alternative routes, with a regional railway more typical of the 19th century and with a national road, EN125, which, as Mr. Prime Minister acknowledged in 2015, seems like a cemetery, I ask: Minister, when will you announce the lifting of the tolls on the Way of Children? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u194	Mr Hugo Costa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u195	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, we are here to discuss the State Budget for 2019, a budget that strengthens the policy of returns and, indeed, the dignity of the Portuguese, maintaining rigour and proving once again that this is a government of right accounts. Long goes the time of the sanctions that the former Government was leaving Portugal for failure to comply with the right public accounts. This is also the government which changed the previous cycle of job destruction, with the creation of more than 377 000 jobs and a reduction in the unemployment rate, which came to be more than 15 %, to an expected value of 6, 3 % in 2019. Today, we heard say, in this House, « Now it will be! But the truth is this: in the last three years it has been, contrary to what happened to the previous government, in which nothing has been done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a Budget that strengthens public investment and, as has already been said, bets on the railway, not only on works, but also on the acquisition of circulating material, preventing the destruction of EMEF. We've been talking about several connections here, but it's true that for years nothing has been done by the railroad. This is the first government in many years that buys new circulating material.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u197	It was also in good time that the government changed the unbelievable privatization policy of transport companies, which threatened Portuguese mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u198	All right! [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u199	Investment, competitiveness and territorial cohesion—this is a virtuous triangulation that is now reinforced. thus, and as an example of the district by which I was elected a Member, the district of Santarém, two public competitions were opened for the re-qualification of national roads Nos 361 and 362, worth EUR 7000 million. These works were essential for the municipalities of Alcanena and Santarém and have long been placed and debated. The autarchs had been talking about the situation for a long time. People and companies needed to solve the problems and now, yes, it is now that it will be because this government has done nothing and the former government has done nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u201	The right hand presents itself today, nakedly, saying that everything can be done, but what the right hand today does not want to do here is accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u203	We therefore welcome the Government's submission of a strict State budget. We note that, as has been noted in particular by the intervention of the PSD, this is the right of the irresponsible accounts, is the right of the bottom-barrier and it is the right that only wants to do everything, making budgetary data dangerous. This is not our path, this is not our policy. We have responsibility for the right accounts and public investment with economic growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u204	For clarifications, Mr Luís Leite Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u205	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, we have just heard here once again an exercise of « elective» propaganda, to quote a comrade whose arguments were used, the same loas, the same self-satisfaction, the same lack of memory, the same obsession with the promise and the announcement. His speech today was not very different from what he did last year, in the debate of the 2018 Budget, or from those that made in the discussions of the Budgets for 2017 and 2016. They are the same ads and the same promises, only the results are missing, Minister. The results, these, are still missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u206	The results are that there is nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u207	The Minister's obsession with the announcement is so great that he even takes care to anticipate some announcements of works that will only take place in the coming legislatures in several years. In fact, this happened with this 42 km piece on the Douro Line, in which the Minister hurriedly announced the execution of this work, when not even the project was carried out. As this obsession is so great, it could also disseminate the study, which hid and closed in a drawer seven keys, carried out by the infrastructures of Portugal on the Douro Line, which shows the development potential of this Line, or could then give importance to the study that was carried out by the European Commission on the degree and potential of internationalization of this cross-border link, which you are also quick to forget and ignore. But, Minister, let's go to the facts and numbers. When we look, for example, at the 2020 railway, at which Mr Minister insists on repeatedly announcing three years ago, and when we look at the results, what do we see? Five percent is the implementation rate expected for December 2018. Five percent, Minister! Its achievements, its results, the facts, the numbers are worth exactly that. The same thing happens with Montijo airport. Mr. Minister has already announced many times, for several months in a row, that the works would begin in 2019. I said it again and again! And what do we see about Montijo Airport? We see the background of environmental assessments, on which Parliament and the country have not yet been fully clarified — we do not know whether or not we need to make a strategic environmental assessment. We don't know the terms of the concession or the counterpart that Mr. Minister is...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u208	Don't you know? What do you know? What do you think? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u209	Sir, if you let me talk, thank you. He did not tell us what the counterparties are, contrary to what he promised several times in this House, saying that in time this Parliament would be duly informed about the Montijo airport's negotiating process. We only have to expect Mr. Minister to be waiting on the eve of the elections to put the first stone, as he did, in fact, his former Prime Minister José Socrates. But let us also talk about the budgetary implementation of your Ministry. Mr. Minister, we know the captivations that have already been referred to — 300 million in 2016, 400 million in 2017 — but we still do not know the value of the captivations that will take in 2018. We know that in 2018, for example, the budget implementation in the CP is 10 % and that the infrastructure in Portugal is 12 %. That is why, Mr Minister, you were, so far, the minister of elective propaganda, but you are also the minister of children. Mr. Minister is completely reiterating the arrests of the Ministry of Finance, and that is why I ask him: when will he leave the ads and move on to the results? The country is grateful. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u210	It is the turn of the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure to respond. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hugo Costa, yes, this is really just, as we just saw, the right of the bottom. It's particularly the right of the bottom-boot! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It's true, it's true! It was once again a good example of how you are in politics and, in particular, in the context of this legislature; you are the right of the bottom-down on public investment. [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] In 2015, they opposed the Marão tunnel, a work that had the matrix of the Socialist Party, a work of territorial cohesion, launched by the PS and completed by this Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is what they have to present in public investment, but come here to say that nothing is done, that is failure, that is achievement. Mrs. Members, what is the failure of 30 % of the growth of the public investment of the central government by September this year? It is or is not true that it is in the public accounts 30 % growth of the public investment of the central administration until the third quarter of this year and with concrete works! Mr. Hélder Amaral, let's go to the railroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u212	Hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u213	It even seemed like the honourable Member was distracted! I know that as President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, he is very attentive, but he did not remember that, yes, we are in work in the South Corridor, between Elvas and the border, while we launched the biggest competition for the largest railway work in the last 100 years...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u214	Have you started yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u215	... and that is now in progress. Have you visited that work, Mr. Deputies? I've been there and it's a remarkable job, a remarkable infrastructure job! He's on the ground, Mr. Deputies. In the North Corridor, have you already been between Covilhã and Guarda or — I know you say a lot — in the agreement of the Beers, Member? Have you come to see the work on the ground? Well, I've been there, just like the Prime Minister. It is a remarkable work for the replacement of rail traffic between Covilhã and Guarda, Member of the Commission! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mr President, have you ever seen the electrification of the Mining Line to Viana or the new work to the border? I've been there several times! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We are finishing the electrification of the Mining Line to Viana do Castelo, we are in works to Valença, Mr. Deputy. Were you in the works on the North Line, between Alfarelos and Pampilhosa? Have you seen any of the works we're doing next to Gaia? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you've lost on my list of concrete works...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u216	Mr Minister, let me interrupt for just a little to see if there is any calm in the benches. Otherwise, you can't even figure out what's being said. I know we're all in an appetite, not to say anything else, but we could now turn the tone down. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u217	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is not only the right of the bottom button, it is the right of the "scream up and down"! Unless they do something, they lift the decibels and don't let them talk. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] After all, they don't want to be clarified! But, Mr. Member, I continue in the concrete works: Mininho Line, North Line, South Corridor, North Corridor, line... Already, Mr. Luís Leite Ramos, speaking in concrete works, someone said here that Caíde-Marco has a delay of three years, but with your rhythm and what they left us in the Ministry, the work would never be done again. It was the only railway work that you left when you left the government, but you know what happened, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? The contest was below, it was not in condition, the contractor could not do the work, we had to launch everything again! That was the quality of your planning, of the railway work, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Not only did you put down all the investment effort in railways that had come from the past, as they left a poorly prepared, ill-planned work. They did not even leave projects made in the Ministry and then question the works that are now on the ground and that I invite you to visit, one by one. It has a lot to do in the country, Mr Hélder Amaral, because there is a lot of railway work that is happening now and is going to be extended by the next legislature. Mr President, with regard to the IP3, I always think it is amazing that they return to this subject. I will say again what I have already said: former Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho, who said he did not like to go to openings, had no problem, in the electoral pre-campaign, to go put another first stone on IP3.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u218	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u219	You know what I found in the Ministry? Zero! Not a single project to do the work! This was the way this right here was doing works, Mr. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And, yes, there's work on IP3 now. Mr Hélder Amaral, since he asked for concrete works, there are works on IP3 now. The most critical stems in the Penacova area are now being intervened and, as you know, we launched a contest to start the great IP3 work already in 2019. The next work of IP3 is launched, while works are already under way. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] In relation to the access programmes to areas of business location, yes, Mr. Member, in Viana do Castelo we are working. Let me tell you this: if we had as many millions of euros as politicians who had already promised access to Arouca, I assure you that the work would already be done. It was this Prime Minister and I who were there to finally launch the public contest of the work that will start to be held next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u220	The Secretary of State was there too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u221	The same goes for Leather Walls. Do you want to talk about access to business location areas? I'm telling you about works contests that are already launched, with budgetary commitments. Now, about the idea that the investment is all captivated, we are going to give Mr. Hélder Amaral something new here. Mr President, my Ministry's captivated investment is now growing for the same period last year, 139 %! The full investment of the Ministry of Infrastructure is growing 139 % over the same period last year, Mr Deputy! For those whose investment is fully captivated, the Minister of Finance always leaves some public investment. One hundred and thirty-nine percent, Your Honor! One hundred and thirty-nine percent, Your Honor! Has public investment ever grown so much in its time? You have to tell me when, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u222	Don't be wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u223	Mr. João Vasconcelos, regarding the situation of Via do Infante and the national road No. 125, it is certainly recalled that it was already in this legislature that tens of millions of euros were made literally of works on the national road No. 125. It is certainly recalled that, in the summer that it was now finished, we did urgent work on the Sotavento, on the national road No 125, which allowed proper circulation. I think you remember, because you were there with me at the time that these works were completed. Mr President, with regard to the reduction of the value of tolls, it is worth doing here a little memory exercise. It is important to remember that it was this government that, in the summer of 2016, reduced the value of the tolls on the inland highways and also on the Via do Infante. Here I will recall something that Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs has already said today: it is planned and will be in force at the beginning of next year a further reduction in the value of tolls, which will once again cover the motorways of the interior and also the Via do Infante. And, let me tell you, it's not just for heavy ones, as some of you have said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u224	It's even for the bikes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u225	... is also for Class 1 goods vehicles of companies located in low-density territories, because this government gives priority to territorial cohesion, the development of the interior. Yes, we will have more competitiveness of our companies in transport in these inland roads and, in particular, of the companies that choose to be located in low-density territories. Mr. Luís Leite Ramos, made a great treaty on the Douro Line, but what they left us was just a sick contest and a line that didn't even enter your district—it arrived at the Marco and there stopped. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] For this government is doing the electrification of the Douro Line to the Marco, which launched the project to do the electrification to the River and launched works to the Pocinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u226	Do it! Do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u227	We're doing it, sir! We are doing the work that you are talking about, but for which your government has done nothing! In the Douro line they did not do the works that are now being done by decision and action of this government. [[PSD protests.]] As far as the airport is concerned, Mr Deputy, we shall be here to continue both financial negotiation and environmental assessment. We are making a difficult path, I have not, as the previous one responsible for this folder has done, running behind the camera presidents to sign a protocol on eves of elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u228	And three years later, what do we have? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u229	I think it is unbelievable that you speak of the first airport stones on the eve of elections, when the previous one responsible for this folder went to the door of the camera presidents in a hurry, to see if they signed a protocol. Imagine what? To locate the airport in Montijo. Mr. Deputies, we did the housework, we have the financial negotiation and the ongoing environmental work. We have a good, durable solution, which will allow you to double airport capacity in the region of Lisbon, without the cost of building a definitive airport solution for taxpayers. It is a solution that we will announce as soon as we have the financial negotiation concluded and always subject to all the safety and environmental rules. We are making the way forward with the airport capacity of the Lisbon region, but I didn't run after any camera president to see if a memorandum for election purposes was signed, just to get well. Today I mentioned the airport, as well as the 500 million euro proximity plan, when you invest EUR 10 million per year on the road and were up to say by the country that you had a 500 million euro public investment plan on the road. That was your way of ruling! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, public investment is growing 30% in central administration and is going to grow again in 2019 because we have the works finally launched. We did the projects we did not find, we launched the contests, we have work on the railway throughout the national territory and we can be proud of this! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u230	Let's move on to the last series of three requests for clarification. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u231	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u232	Mr President, Minister, the railway calls for a strong and serious investment. We know that the problem is not today, but urgent measures are now required; otherwise, the service provided by the CP is in a real collapse. In fact, this is a service that is already very deficient in certain lines, such as the Lines of Alentejo, the West, the Algarve and the Douro, for example. It is the President of the COP himself who acknowledges that this situation is due to the lack of circulating material and the inoperability of much of the existing material due to aging, intervention, recovery, arrangements and revision needs. There is a lack of circulating material and human resources. However, at a time when real investment is required in transport policies capable of making public transport and, from the outset, rail a real alternative to the use of the individual car, we cannot continue to delay investment in rail until, in addition to the problems that this situation is creating for people in terms of mobility, it is also compromising the commitments that the Portuguese State has made internationally with regard to combating climate change. Mr Minister, what I ask you is that the measures provided for in this Railway Budget will respond to the serious difficulties that the railway is experiencing today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u233	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that there will be no flexibility from the Bureau regarding time-consuming due to time circumstances. You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Paulo Neves, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, we are coming to the final line of this debate on the State budget for next year. The Social Democratic Party calls for the issue of Madeira and Madeirans to be brought to this Chamber once again in this final line. We are, of course, talking about a national issue. Mr. Prime Minister has decided, since he took office, to generate a genuine siege to Madeira and Madeirans. We have already understood this and we have also understood your reasons. [[Protests by PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The main reason is that the national PS, and the Prime Minister in particular, does not forgive the Macedonians for having given 49 election victories to the PSD and no Socialist Party since 25 April. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] You don't forgive us for that! But I would like to say to you, Prime Minister and PS leader, in fact, a real candidate for the forthcoming regional elections in Madeira by PS, that this strategy of attack and siege to Madeira and Madeira will lead you to a new defeat. [[Protests by PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] It is not to know the Macedonians to think that we will ever give the victory to those who fail to keep their promises and do not respect the autonomy that has cost much to conquer. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u235	Mr Prime Minister, I can assure you that you will not win the next regional elections in Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u236	That's electoralism!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u237	What you have done—unfortunately, you have done and achieved, but we will oppose—is to put Portuguese against Portuguese! The Portuguese of the islands against the Portuguese of the continent! Your attitude is neither responsible nor fair! Mr Prime Minister, in conclusion, the Government of the Republic does not comply with its words in this State budget in relation to Madeira. He does not pay what he promises — we have already given him the example of the hospital — and he prefers to earn money from Madeira's debt interest instead of giving this financial strike to the authorities and bodies of regional autonomy. [[Protests by PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] On the question of mobility is blatant: the Portuguese of Madeira — you know, Prime Minister — pay shameful prices to move to the capital of our country. The PS Government does not respect the constitutional principle of territorial continuity when it resigns, as is the case with Minister Pedro Marques, to require TAP to respect the Portuguese of Madeira and prevents offensive and clearly inflationary prices that are practised. [[Protests by PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The PS government, with the Left Block and the Communist Party, privatized TAP three years ago because it was a strategic company for Portugal. They have reversed this, but I ask, Mr Prime Minister: will it not be strategic for Portugal to join the country and deal with the population of Madeira with all dignity? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] Of course it is! It's just for the gentlemen that it hasn't been! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u238	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Ricardo Bexiga, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u239	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, Dear Members and Members of Parliament, to be examining the State budget and the results obtained from these three years of legislation only with punctual works is extremely reducing. In fact, what we have to look at is the results obtained by these three years of policy in which the Budget presented by this Government for 2019 is only the consolidation of an initial course that has brought more confidence, more development and, above all, a more confident country in itself and which is prepared for the challenges of the future. The reaction of the PSD and CDS Members has something pathological. There is a refusal to analyze reality and there is a refusal to accept the statistical data that today clearly prove to all of us that we have a country with more growth, with a stronger economy and, above all, a more cohesive country. The criticisms of the CDS and the PSD always go back to that jack that over the last three years we have been used to listening to: that the economic results of this government's policy are merely conjunctural. Now, if we analyze the statistical data that are, today, clear, what we have is a deeply different country, a country that structurally has a capacity to respond to the challenges ahead, totally different from what we had when we left the government of the troika. It is enough, for example, to look at employment data and to see how we clearly have an economic structure today that has, almost from the point of view of full employment, an easy goal to achieve for the future. This is mainly achieved through the strength of public investment, but also through the strength of this government's support for companies. I would therefore like to highlight, for example, the investment made in support of companies of about EUR 9 billion, which led to the fact that Portuguese companies today are at a value chain level capable of being competitive with all European companies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u240	Also from an investment point of view in the framework of cohesion, today we have a more coherent country and when we talk about works, whether in the framework of road infrastructures or in the framework of railway infrastructures, we are not just talking about point-of-point investments in terms of changing a clear policy of de-investment in public investment as happened to right-wing policy, we are talking about infrastructures that are essential for the cohesion of the country. When we talk about investing in new roads, when we talk about investing in new ports, when we talk about investing in new airports, we are clearly creating conditions for more cohesion in our country. The question that I leave to the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure is the following: in the context of the new challenge we have of decentralization, where cohesion issues will be on the agenda again, what their priorities are for us to achieve with public investment increasing the objectives already achieved with the cohesion of the territory and, above all, to empower the country for the new challenges of decentralization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u241	To close the debate this morning, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers for Planning and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Luís Ferreira, on the issue of rail and the challenges we have, I want to tell you that, of course, we continue to have them. We have an unparalleled investment in rail infrastructure and much more to do in the coming years, but of course, in particular with regard to regional lines, we have a challenge resulting from the situation, age, maintenance of the rolling stock of these regional lines, in particular in the lines that are still serving diesel. As you know, there are two strategies in progress: on the one hand, we are strengthening the maintenance of this circulating material and, on the other hand, we have recently hired more than 100 workers for EMEF to strengthen the capacity to maintain the circulating material, in particular the material that still serves on the diesel lines, on the other hand, we also have, as you know, the issue of renting the circulating material to Spain to add some circulating material until the new material that we are going to acquire and also the objective of acquiring more circulating material, some of it only electrically, the other bimode, in order to be able to circulate on lines that have parts of diesel and parts already electrified. In addition, we are also, as you know, electrifying these lines, so we have not only electrification on the Douro Line, which is under way, such as electrification on the West Line, whose phase of work is now to be launched, or also that of the Algarve, whose phase of work will be launched until the beginning of 2019. We also have the prospect of launching, for the time being, the projects of the second phase of electrification of the West Line and the electrification of the Alentejo Line to Beja to see these investments in the phase of the National Investment Programme. Therefore, Mr President, there is a strategy, there is a difficult historical legacy in particular of the regional lines we are trying to overcome. I now leave here some information that I think will be useful: in terms of regional services, in the electrified lines, even today they will be in circulation, or they will be back in circulation, six electric triple units with priority at the service to Take, precisely to regain the proper service capacity in this particular situation, but also to strengthen, in general, the capacity of circulating material in service on our electrified regional lines. Of course we can ask: is everything solved on the railway in Portugal? It is certainly not all solved! Do you need to continue investing? We need to keep investing! The challenge of heavy public investment in heavy infrastructure will certainly continue to be a challenge for decision makers in the near future, because we have a level of acceleration of economic transformation, or even social, very significant, and our ability to monitor this pace of transformation with investment in heavy infrastructure is certainly a challenge for the future for all political decision makers. So we will continue to make progress and, soon, we will be discussing the National Investment Programme which will also give us perspectives on what we want to do as a country in the next decade, to continue to follow this plan of more competitiveness and also more cohesion and of sure that the railway will again be one of the major priorities in the next decade. Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, in this context either in the next State budget or in the National Investment Programme, this dimension of cohesion is absolutely critical and must also be accompanied by the dimension of competitiveness. To be clear: we must have infrastructures that continue to support the advancement of a competitive process, as you have pointed out, so that our companies that want to invest can be competitive in their exports — for example, in access to our ports — can continue to have competitive ports, to also be competitive in our Atlantic dimension. In addition, we must have an increasingly cohesive territory and our public investment will certainly be critical to this dimension of territorial cohesion. It was already the case in the past with investments in the area of the road, it is already being now and must be increased in the next investment cycle in the National Investment Programme, either in the road size or, certainly, also in the rail dimension. Mr. Paulo Neves, don't hurt me, but what you call a siege to Madeira, I call a government that works with the institutions of the region...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u243	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u244	...to seek, in respect for autonomy, to improve the lives of Maderians. When we change the interest rate regime of the Republic's loan, we are doing so so that the region can get rid of this responsibility more quickly...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u245	But who's gonna keep the debt? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u246	...that it was the region that created it. It was the PSD governments, in the past, who created that debt which is now being settled with the change of interest on the loan. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] When we decided to support the construction of the Funchal hospital, it was also to provide better health services and to support a better health service to the Maderians. [[PSD protests.]] When we supported the region in the difficult recovery of fires two years ago, the region would have carried out the investments supported by the Community funds, by decision of this Government of the Republic. [[PSD protests.]] Sir, are you here to talk about mobility? The mobility model that exists today in Madeira is duplicating the responsibility of the current President of the Government, Miguel Albuquerque...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u247	But why don't they change? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u248	Who approved the model of social mobility allowance was Miguel Albuquerque with the former Government of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Who approved the model of social mobility allowance was Miguel Albuquerque, it was Madeira's PSD with the previous government! And the one who had the opportunity to change that model was again Miguel Albuquerque. We have been in Madeira, we proposed to Miguel Albuquerque the regionalization of the model of social mobility allowance, we offer to transfer annually to the Autonomous Region of Madeira...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u249	We have to pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u250	... the value that the Vice-President of the Regional Government had come to the continent saying that it was sufficient for the implementation of the regionalized mobility grant model. The Regional Government of Madeira rejected the regionalisation of the mobility subsidy model. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Miguel Albuquerque is duly responsible for the situation of the mobility of Maderians! [[PSD protests.]] Accept the regionalization of the mobility model! Don't hide! Do not push to the Government of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u251	It's your responsibility! Then change!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u252	... because you refused to regionalise the mobility allowance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u253	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now interrupt the work, which will begin at 3 p.m. with the continuation of the debate, in general, of the proposed grand options law of the Plan for 2019 and of the State budget for 2019. Prior to the final interventions, the Member of the PS Edite Estrela, the Member of the PAN André Silva, the Member of the PCP Antonio Filipe and the Minister of Culture are registered to speak. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended. [[It was 13 hours and 39 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, we're going to restart the session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. In the meantime, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report on the entry into the Bureau of legislative initiatives. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, to the Proposals for Law No 157 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAM ) — Amendment to the Code of Special Consumption Taxes, approved by Decree-Law No 73 / 2010 of 21 June 2010 which falls to 5. the Commission, 158 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAM ) — Amendment to Law No 49 / 2011 of 7 September approving an extraordinary overtax on incomes subject to IRS taken in 2011, amending the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, which also falls to 5. the Commission, 159 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the Code of the Income Tax for Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November, and Decree-Law No 413 / 98 of 31 December, in its current wording, which approved the Supplementary System of the Tax and Customs Inspection Procedure - by fulfilling the obligation to deliver Annex C to the Model Declaration 22, which also falls to 5. the Commission, and 160 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the code of value added tax approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December, which also falls to 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u255	Thank you, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. We're going to restart the work. For an intervention, Mrs Edite Estrela of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u256	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: This fourth State budget consolidates and reinforces the path started in 2016. It has already been said, but it is never too much to repeat: a path that led to increased family incomes, stabilization of public accounts, growth of the economy and employment, a reduction in the unemployment rate that falls to half, the reduction of public debt and its valuation by rating agencies, resulting in a fall in interest and a savings of around EUR 1400 million with debt service. in these three years of PS government, supported by the left-wing parliamentary majority, increased social justice and reduced inequalities. In other words, contrary to what happened to the right-wing government, what should have gone up and down what should have been down. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the external image of Portugal is high, which attracts investment and tourists. More and more foreigners are looking for our country to invest, study, work and reside. More and more foreigners discover the charms of our lands and our people and marvel at our landscapes and our cultural heritage. It is a fact: Portugal is better and Portuguese and Portuguese live much better today and look at the future with renewed confidence. These good results, recognized inside and praised out there, fill us with pride, but seem to cause boredom and general discomfort to the PSD and CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State Budget for 2019 also consolidates and reinforces the path started in 2016 in the area of culture. Since then, culture has been the area that has increased most percent and has reached an increase of almost 40 %. This budget represents a 13 % increase compared to last year, an increase of 56 million euros. Is it little? Maybe. Who would not like to have 1 % of the State budget for culture? 30 years I've wanted it. Just as I wish to live in a more just and less unequal world, but, as the poet wrote, « Between sleep and dream(...) runs a river without end». "Dream commands life" and reality appeals to our sense of responsibility. The fact is that after four years of PSD/CDS government, four years of culture subordination, four years of de-investment and consequent stagnation, the PS government has put culture at the heart of its political priorities. He created the Ministry of Culture, which makes a lot of difference and is not just in the symbolic plane, and increased his budget every year. In 2015 the budget for culture did not reach EUR 220 million. For 2019, the Government of the PS State's budget, supported by the parliamentary left, exceeds 500 million, I repeat, EUR 500 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More than double the 2015 values, the time of the PSD government / CDS. Also in the culture was turned the page of austerity and thus it was possible now to reach the largest State budget for the culture. [[PSD laughter.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in culture too, it has to go up and down what should be down. Support is provided to creators and cultural agents, and taxes are lowered to facilitate access to cultural use by everyone. The right, with the ability that is recognized to distort reality for its own good, seeking to bleach the evil that has done and devalue the successes of the current government, came to speak of a decrease in the support of the arts. It happens that manipulation does not resist the facts and numbers, and the figures confirm that there was no cut or decrease in support of the arts, yes, there was an increase of 40 %. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the investment in the arts sector exceeded the 2009 level, reaching EUR 23, 8 million in 2019 plus 74 % more than in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Also in the area of culture, the PS government has fixed the errors of the PSD/CDS government and has solved problems that have been dragging for many years. Let us look at a few examples: the current government has restored the free admission to museums on Sundays and holidays, the payment of which was introduced by the PSD / CDS government. The right-wing government has thus devalued the culture that has been forgotten up to the world heritage. In 2015, workers at the Rupestre Park and the Côa Museum were seriously at risk of not receiving the salary at the end of the month. Currently, the Côa Foundation is a paradigmatic case of dynamism and success in the national and international projection of this invaluable heritage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Other cases were also resolved such as the reduction of VAT in cultural shows, which fell from 13 % to 6 % on the continent, to 5 % in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and to 4 % in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. This VAT had been increased in 2012 by the work and grace of the PSD Government / CDS. But more: 30 years later, dancers see the status of a rapidly worn-out profession recognized. I remember this claim for decades and it has now been resolved. The impasses were also resolved with the acquisition of the paintings of Vieira da Silva, the exhibition of the Miró, in Serralves, the creation of a fund for the acquisition of contemporary art, the reactivation of artistic creation scholarships, etc. etc. The installation of the National Museum of Music in the National Palace of Mafra and the National Centre of Nautical and Underwater Archaeology in Xabregas, in an investment of about 1, 3 million euros, solving an impasse, also 10 years old, and the creation of the National Museum of Resistance and Freedom in the Fortaleza de Peniche, as a memory and greater symbol of the struggle for freedom and democracy, are three good examples of appreciation of cultural heritage. I would also like to stress that the Government is finalizing a proposal for a new model of management of museums, monuments and palaces, combining the autonomy of management with the advantages of rationalizing certain services, in particular the sharing of centralized common resources. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I end with Sophia's inspiring words, in her parliamentary dimension in the Constituent Assembly, is not the poet, but the Socialist Parliamentary of the Constituent Assembly. And I quote: "Culture is one of the ways of liberation of man. Therefore, in the face of politics, culture must always have the possibility of acting as an anti-power. And if it is clear that the State owes to culture the support it owes to the identity of a people, such support must be equalized in order to defend the autonomy and freedom of culture so that the action of the State will never become directed». Creating conditions for cultural creation and use, promoting language and culture, preserving and valuing heritage are always objectives and to which this government has given particular attention. Whoever does not invest in culture does not prepare the future. And this Government is concerned about the future of Portuguese and Portuguese, the future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u257	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government: Diversity and plurality in politics add resilience to government solutions and, of course, to proposals negotiated in the budget. As a result, once again the opening up of the Government to negotiate and debate various measures with the NAP. in this perspective, this Budget follows the line of those previously negotiated and approved. There is a clear bet on the return of income and the thawing of the progression of some public careers. In the social field we also found an effort to benefit the most disadvantaged people, particularly with a general update of pensions already in January 2019, which mainly benefits the lowest pensions. These social efforts are very relevant to those who need it most, but there are also positive signs in other areas. In the environmental sector, investment increases 16, 9 %. Here, the bet on improving collective transport, on planning the territory and on managing the historical debts of municipalities and multi-municipal systems of water and sanitation are important factors. Also in the public investment component, it is necessary to praise the injection of funds into the National Health Service in more than 500 million euros that will serve, among other aspects, to settle part of the debt to third parties of public hospitals. They are, in fact, positive signs. However, it is not only signs that the Budget is living and in the macroeconomic scenario we remain concerned about the maintenance of levels of public debt that are far higher than the expected and the European average. Despite a slight decline in GDP, public debt now amounts to a nominal astronomical value of EUR 249 billion. More: we continue to contribute to the National Resolution Fund on a permanent basis, with values reaching EUR 1700 million, when the measure initially presented would have a provisional, exceptional and remunerative character. That is, what we invested in public money would be returned by the banking sector, which is not yet a reality. We have also warned of the need to review spending on public-private partnerships, particularly those that have been ruinous to the state, but the way to eliminate or revise them, we know, is morbid and complex. Thinking also in the long term, but having as a background not the macro-economics but climate change, we also found that, in the area of the environment, there are inconsistencies and omissions to be overcome. This budget continues without appropriations to implement the National Strategy for Biological Agriculture, which continues in the drawer, losing the carriage of the development of this row, fundamental for farmers, for the fixing of people inside and for the balance of Portuguese commercial balance. Incentives are maintained for intensive livestock and superintensive food production. The proposal maintains the minimum VAT rate for pesticides, outsourcing the environmental and public health costs of these policy options with the eternal silence of the Ministry of Health. The waste of water is actively promoted by devaluing the consumption of industry and agriculture with unrealistic and unfair water resource rates. The intensive farming industry contaminates all the aquifer systems in the country and consumes 80 % of the water, but it is the domestic consumers who pay the bill. It is incomprehensible that the Ministry of the Environment does not disclose or sensitize the ecological footprint behind food options. We also maintain a waste management policy that favours incineration and landfill to the detriment of reuse and recycling, patenting the value of waste management rates, inadequate to reality and current environmental requirements. There is therefore still much to improve in environmental and climate policies. However, even if the NAP does not have a governance agreement, we believe that our role is to add value to the Budget with concrete and realistic measures in the field of expertise, as we have always done, in fact. We therefore want more incentives for the decentralized production and distribution of 100% renewable energy, such as support for electric mobility. We will work to ensure that water resources rates are fair and balanced, taking into account the actual water expenditure of all productive sectors. in this field, we will also propose the updating of waste management rates in order to deter the use of incineration and landfill. We will put forward proposals to implement the National Strategy for Biological Agriculture. We will work to encourage more support for forest fire prevention, including through incentives for the reforestation of native species and for strengthening the Permanent Forest Fund and the hiring of more nature-guards. In the social responses, we want to ensure that there will be support offices for students with special needs in all higher education institutions, as well as a scholarship of Portuguese gestal-language professionals in the urgents of hospitals. We do not forget other measures that have been proposed by the NAP since 2016, such as the reduction of VAT for pet feeding, as well as support lines for the construction and improvement of official animal collection centres and especially for implementing national sterilization campaigns.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u259	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u260	I will finish, Mr. President. There is indeed much to do to improve this budget proposal and, despite what has already been achieved by the NAP, it is up to us to continue working with the government in the field of expertise. That's how we do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u261	For the CFP's Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u262	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and other government members, Mr. Members: What can most easily be withdrawn from this debate on the State Budget for 2019 is that the PSD and CDS are not understood and that the gongoric irritation that disappears from their interventions does not allow to disguise the most complete disorientation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u263	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u264	Between the electoral orgy to which Mr Adam Silva mentioned at the beginning of this debate and the infinite austerity to which Mr Carlos Silva referred, the PSD interventions say little about the State budget, but say a lot about the state of the PSD. To hear the PSD accuse the PCP of being an enemy of the companies touches the ranks of the ridiculous, when we remind ourselves that it was the PSD in the government that increased the VAT of restoration, electricity and gas to 23 % and that we are in a budgetary debate where the PCP successfully hit by the elimination of the special payment on account, such minimum collection for which the PSD asked for the maximum penalty in times already gone by.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u265	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u266	On the other hand, the CDS, after further examinations of the Prime Minister's facial expression at the beginning of this debate, entered to accelerate the substance with gasoline, with regard to ISP, to end up in line with the down tires, and to have to tug the debate with the speedy recovery of the common places of the security speech. The CDS is now very concerned about the security forces, as if it were not true that it was the PSD/CDS government that has expired the Installations and Equipment Planning Act of the Forces and Security Services, after having done nothing to implement it. [[PCP applause.]] Yesterday Mr Telmo Correia said that there was very discontent out there. It's true. There is dissatisfaction among many professional sectors and populations over the existence of problems that you have aggravated and that the current government is slow to resolve.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u267	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u268	The CFP is supportive of these manifestations of discontent, because it is with the struggle of the workers and the people that « the world leaps and advances». But it is not true that there was no discontent during the previous government. If there had been no discontent and if this discontent had not been manifested in the polls, you would not have been removed from the government as they have been and, instead of progress, we would be discussing setbacks today. [[PCP applause.]] Speaking of the PSD and CDS Members who say that the Budget is electoralist and those who say that the Budget is austerity, the right is tied up and tied up in a chaotic and meaningless speech. We have heard from the PSD and CDS that this Budget is a missed opportunity, but we don't realize what a ray of opportunity that is. If the PSD and CDS want to point out shortcomings in this government budget proposal, they simply listen carefully to the CFP interventions. We are the first to consider that this budget proposal, seeking to remain faithful to the Brussels dictatorships and not to undermine the interests of the great capital and of the patronage, seriously limits the possibilities of solving social problems with which the country faces and which need urgent resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u269	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u270	The CFP is the first to claim that there is a lack of investment in the National Health Service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u271	And you're the first to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u272	... in public school, in higher education and research, in the hiring of employees necessary for the operation of public services, infrastructure, public transport, justice, security forces and services, in forest planning, in support of productive activities, the rural world and family agriculture. More: we say that fiscal justice measures are needed to alleviate taxation on labour income and increase taxation on speculative activities, large profits and great fortunes and to channel resources for socially necessary public investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u273	Very well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u274	These inadequacies that we have pointed out and the social dissatisfaction that manifests with the lack of resolution of pressing problems must call upon the Socialist Party to take them very seriously and to ensure that, in the debate on the specialty we have ahead of us in the coming weeks, it does not waste the opportunity to improve this budget proposal by adding its votes to the proposals that the CFP will not fail to do with this objective. But will the PSD and CDS be available to support policies that increase public investment and contribute to reducing inequalities? We all know they're not. The PSD and the CDS, from mouth to mouth, demand a Budget that is exactly the opposite of what it would be if they were in government, while criticizing the Budget for not containing what they would certainly reject if they were contained.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u275	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u276	If they accuse the Budget of being electoralist and not solving the problems, imagine what they would say if the Budget, contrary to the Brussels dictates, increased public investment to solve them. What, after all, is the opportunity that PSD and CDS say is being lost and what is the alternative they have to offer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u277	Privatize!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u278	If the budget further restricted public investment and even achieved a budgetary surplus, they would accuse it of not solving national problems. If the Budget increased public investment, they would say that the devil also dresses Prada and would soon knock on the door.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u279	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u280	The alternative that PSD and CDS have to offer we know very well what it is. Not by any process of intentions, but by experience done. They are definitive cuts in wages and pensions, reduction in social benefits, increase in the tax burden on workers, tax benefits for the richest, increase in workers' exploitation, penalisation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, privatization and degradation of public services. What irritates both the PSD and the CDS are not the shortcomings of the State budget proposal. It's not what's not there. What concerns PSD and CDS are the advances that this proposal incorporates. [[PCP applause.]] The PSD and the CDS do not dare to openly criticise the third consecutive increase in pensions and reforms, the increase in family allowance and support for the unemployed, the extension of free school textbooks, the extinction of special payment on account, the reduction in energy or transport costs. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS do not dare to openly criticize the socially positive aspects of the budget proposal, but seek to confuse and diminish its content, and you well understand why. It is that the advances that have occurred in these three years and that we hope they will continue in 2019 in terms of the replacement of rights and incomes categorically deny the false inevitability with which they have been lubricating Portuguese for more than four years and make it clear that workers and populations who rightly protest against the current government do so because they fight for their rights and not because they miss the PSD and CDS governments of bad memory. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u281	Mr President, the Bureau did not register entries for requests for clarification to Mr António Filipe. You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Minister of Culture, Graça Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u282	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The measure of success of a society is largely based on culture, without which any political project is incomplete. in this sense, the investment in culture and artistic creation, for which we have been guided, is an offer for the future. Over the past three years, this government has developed an integrated strategy for culture, affirming culture as a factor of social development, communities, public and cultural agents. The culture understood not only as what happens in the Ministry of Culture, for which return we are responsible, but as a governmental area in dialogue with education and science, with innovation and the economy and which is projected beyond the borders of the Aid Palace, throughout the national territory, for Europe and for the world. Integrating and articulating culture, innovation and education is fundamental, not only—and it would already be a lot! — to build a more cohesive society, but also to respond to modern cultural practices, to the future challenges of the formation and training of new generations, in the support and promotion of cultural agents, in the interconnection of our communities and their people, in the defense of our heritage and our identity. It is an approach focused on diversification of production and access to culture and its audiences, which reads the transforming signals of a society that does not correspond with methods that are inadequate to the challenges of creativity and innovation, which recognizes that culture has social and economic impacts that are not exhausted from its use, rather are the basis of a modern society. Together, and in an effort to articulate the government, culture is today the protagonist of a cultural policy that does not establish borders between artistic creation and development and social. And so we will continue, working cross-sectorally and online, expanding and deepening dialogue with all cultural agents, with ever more public investment in culture. And the numbers don't cheat. In contrast to the investment that guided the policy of the previous Government, which cut 35 % in the budget for culture throughout its mandate, reducing it, let us not forget a State Secretary, in this Parliament the budget for culture increased 38 %. And this 2019 budget has the highest growth for culture with an increase of 13 % compared to 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget provides for more investment and consolidation of public cultural structures, more support for arts, artistic creation and the enhancement of heritage, more measures to democratise access to culture, with particular emphasis on reducing VAT in cultural shows from 13 % to 6 %. In support of the arts, the investment exceeded the 2009 level, reaching with the proposed State Budget which is currently being discussed EUR 23, EUR 8 million. This overall amount of support corresponds to an increase of 74 % compared to 2015 in respect of the funds allocated to the Directorate-General for Arts for the multiplicity of disciplines supported by that institution. The revision of the models of support for the arts is one of the fundamental issues that we will discuss on the basis of the work that has been carried out and delivered by a working group that has met with representatives of about 900 cultural agents - this is a discussion that we will continue with priority over the next month. in this area, it is also very important to highlight the launch of the public fund of acquisition of contemporary public art. We will also do so once again in partnership with the municipalities and with the various institutions. And it is essential that we know what exists from what is the public policy of culture at the central level and what exists at the level of each of the municipalities. Also in this dimension, the National Plan of Arts, in liaison with the Ministry of Education, will begin to be implemented next year. It is an ambition to ensure the continued access of our children, our schools, to aesthetic and artistic experiences, contributing to the development of creative skills and skills so necessary in a society that it wants to be fairer and more inclusive. Culture and Education, together, stress the importance of inclusive learning, where art is a factor of encouragement, integration and affirmation of an educational policy closer to artistic creation, the profile of the student and the opportunities that the school environment, culture and families can take advantage of. This is one of the great public policy bets for culture. As is also the commitment to deepening the autonomy of national museums and monuments, which we will continue in 2019. The autonomy of these equipment is essential for the pursuit of its objectives and is based, in fact, on a fair claim from the sector. We will work as far as possible in the current legislative framework. And we don't forget the actual problems of these equipment. The Monitoring More program, coordinated by the Ministry of Internal Administration and provided for in this State Budget, provides for the allocation of supervisors who are no longer in effective function to equipment of government areas of culture, education and justice. We have also announced the entry into operation of automatic tickets to the Jerónimos Monastery and the National Museum of Archaeology. Subsequently, this system will be extended to the Tower of Bethlehem, to the monasteries of Battle and Alcobaça and to the Convent of Christ in Tomar. With this, we aim to facilitate public access to higher demand equipment, while ensuring better management of visitor flows and mitigating pressure on buildings. Investment in the area of heritage is another of our priorities, which materialises at an increase of 86, 9 % in the budget for projects with entities in this area. Culture has already provided Community funding estimated at EUR 15, EUR 3 million for 2019. We will continue with concrete projects to defend and value our material and immaterial heritage. The launch of the bases for creating the national sound archive is emblematic of this priority. A strong link between culture and the economy has been another of our priorities and has contributed to a stronger culture in areas such as innovation, tourism, cultural equipment, the recovery and protection of our memory and identity, encouragement to investment in culture. With the economy, we created the Tourism, Cinema and Audiovisual Support Fund, with an allocation of EUR 50 million. It includes one of Europe's most competitive incentives for film collection in Portugal by setting a maximum of 20 working days for the assessment of applications and by allowing a cash to recover up to 30 % of expenditure on projects with high economic and/or cultural potential. We will start the installation of the Film Commission Portugal, placing Portugal, continent and autonomous regions in the world as a preferential destination for filming and attracting foreign cinema and audiovisual productions. They are two essential measures, together with other measures that will be implemented in conjunction with existing regional and municipal entities. Also in partnership with the Ministry of Economics, we have created the Revive program, which has allowed to rehabilitate the heritage that is of all people, but which so many have left to care for for so many years. We do so by following models of good practice, paying attention to social responsibility, innovating in the relationship between private and state, keeping what is for everyone to come. We are committed to the sustainability of the creative and cultural sector and we want everyone to be part of this strategy. The times we live require more attention and renewed confidence in the mechanisms we can create to ensure the protection of our creators and the safety of their audiences. That is why we continue to engage in the discussion of the Copyright Directive in the Digital Single Market, in conjunction with the main organisations representative of copyright holders, and in particular ensuring the protection of works in digital and developing environments with scientific research. It is also in this field that RTP plays an essential role, not only because it currently has stable funding, but because it is reflected in the logic of public service, with a strong educational and cultural component and a differentiated programming logic of the private. RTP, as a public television service, plays a central role in the affirmation of a bet on culture, either as a powerful tool for promoting Portuguese language, particularly in close contact with Portuguese communities spread around the world, either in constant support for artistic creation and inventivity, promoting cultural diversification and public formation. The vision we have for culture is clear: integrated, sustainable, innovative. If we can create these platforms and these networking links between those who produce, create, disseminate and support, we will be able to reach many more people, and that is what is necessary, i.e. that people enjoy culture, access culture and that those who do, those who offer it have the necessary conditions to continue in a distinctive, singular and affirmation course at national and international levels. That's exactly what's gonna make us better as people and as a country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u283	Madam Minister, the Bureau has registered five Members for requests for clarification, and the government bench has already informed the Bureau that the Minister will answer all questions together. To put the first request for clarification, Mr Jorge Campos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u284	Madam President, I would like to begin by complimenting the Minister for Culture for her coming to Parliament and for the start of her duties. I'm putting two questions to you, telegraphically. One question has to do with the reduction of VAT in shows. We thought this measure deserved a better design. The question that I ask you is: how do you consider, for example, that in an open and closed premises, with regard to VAT, the same tax treatment is ensured for the same cultural good? This is obviously a question. Another question, Mrs Minister, has to do with what is being done for museums — the question of autonomy. We know, from what we have been discussing, that the financing of national museums is really going to be done in a different way. There is a question of knowing what will happen to municipal museums. Are we going to have the ProMuseus (support programme for the Portuguese Network of Museums) running with funding? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u285	The next item is a request for clarification by Mrs Vania Dias da Silva of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u286	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Culture, one more area of State governance, one more achievement, one more ambush. In each area, a new trap—this is how this State budget is made, Mrs Minister — and the replacement of crop VAT is no exception. Among the various measures that you have been releasing before the presentation of the State budget, you have announced one, in relation to VAT of culture, which created in the minds of people the idea that this VAT would be returned as it was in 2011. Well! It was also a CDS proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u287	Did you?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u288	But, after all, no! After all, culture's VAT is only returned to some culture. I would like you to clarify this, please, Mrs Minister — and also to exclude the bullfighting. This has a name Mr. Minister : it is called prejudice, it is called discrimination, it is called a dictatorship of taste. [[CDS-PP applause.]] For the CDS, Mrs. Minister, the whole culture is culture, regardless of the taste or preference of each one, and should be treated all on an equal footing. Therefore, Mrs Minister, I leave you with a very simple question, for which, I imagine, there is also a very concrete answer: the Government is prepared to review this measure and to integrate the CDS proposal to, at least, restore the situation prior to 2012 and thus include all cultural manifestations, regardless of where VV occurs or the taste of VV. Ex. Mrs. Minister? in a word, will the Minister have the strength and will to persuade the Minister of Finance to accept the CDS proposal to turn this VAT of taste into a true VAT of culture, fairer and more inclusive? Let's hope so, Mr. Minister! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u289	The next item is a request for clarification by Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u290	Mr President, Mrs Minister, in fact she has done a beautiful, well-articulated intervention here, but we need to know more concrete details about the measures to be taken and the Olympic mission, which we consider to be not easy in fact, which is to reverse the disaster path of the right-wing policy which has been so in-depth with the previous government. Therefore, we would like to obtain more clarification if possible. We leave a number of questions we have to ask in relation to the areas of culture. We would like to see, since we have talked about VAT here, whether the Government will consider the extension of the measure already enshrined in the State budget to become a fairer and more far-reaching measure. We would like to know what the Government's perspective on this matter is. We would also like to find a response to very concrete problems that are experienced in the day-to-day life of those who work in the field of culture. For example, when will the missing workers be recruited at the National Centre for Water and Water Archaeology, in particular the underwater technicians and archaeologists that are needed to respond to their needs? This question can be extended to the workers of the various museums, palaces, monuments and archaeological sites. We know that there is a very serious lack of these workers, who are old. There is a very serious problem with this in the area of culture and we would like to know the Government's perspective, also in general, with regard to the recruitment of these workers. Ms.Minister spoke recently about what was the action of the workers of the ticket and surveillance, who were on strike at the Jerónimos monastery, the Tower of Bethlehem and the National Museum of Archaeology. What answer will be given to the demands of these workers, in particular the questions they have raised, not only in relation to the recruitment of staff, but also in respect of their rights? These are also fundamental issues. We would also like to know what concrete measures will be taken to invest in the Cinemateca and ANIM. Mrs. Minister, we know that the situation at the Cinemateca and the ANIM is screaming, is desperate. There are serious problems happening either in the preservation of films, or in legend, which require extraordinary intervention measures. We would also like to know what concrete measures the government will take to safeguard the heritage, but that they do not exactly pass through the Revive programme and surrender to private people. In terms of the Central Administration of the Government, the responsibility for the heritage in general requires that the measures do not go through the delivery and commercialization of the heritage, because the « dysneyification» of the heritage is already a bit full. We would also like to see whether or not it is planned to carry out the works necessary to re-qualify the building and create conditions for the installation of the permanent exhibition of the National Museum of Archaeology. It's a very old claim. This will eventually be one of the only national museums that has never had works and that needs them so much. Therefore, we would also like to know the Government's plans on this matter. The Minister spoke of the revision of the model of support for the arts. The CFP fully agrees that there is a thorough review and that it respects workers' rights, which have a fundamental component, that of combating precariousness, which is also flagrant in this area of culture. Therefore, we would like to see that effective measures to combat precariousness will be associated with the plan on the revision of the model of support for the arts mentioned here. Madam Minister, we would also like to see how literary creation will be increased, in what way this will be done; when there will be support for updating the documentary funds and the collections of public libraries; what will happen to the National Plan of Archaeological Works; and, finally, the Minister, what the planned and quantifiable commitment the Government will assume in relation to the goal of allocating 1% of the Budget for Culture and the provision of 25 million from now on to support the arts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u291	Mrs Edite Estrela of the Socialist Party has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u292	Madam President, Minister for Culture, first of all, in this first intervention in the Assembly of the Republic as Minister of Culture, I would like to welcome you, wish you the greatest happiness in the performance of these new functions and congratulate you on the increase already mentioned in the cultural budget. This year, we have indeed the largest budget in culture. She said, well, that the budget for culture is not exhausted in the Ministry of Culture, having referred to the responsibilities assumed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in promoting and internationalizing Portuguese, through the Camões Institute, the CPLP (Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries) etc. , the responsibilities that they also commit to the Ministry of Education in the promotion of culture and the responsibilities of other ministries, such as those of the Secretariat of State of Tourism, which has also contributed to the appreciation of cultural heritage. The PS has already taken a position, through my intervention, with regard to the reduction of VAT in cultural shows. We follow the Government's proposal, that is to say, we want to make it easier for everyone to have access to cultural exploitation. In fact, we must recognize that there are shows where there is no lack of public, where the public will not need such support. Specifically, I could give the example of the tourists—I also think that this exception is very good for the tourists. Mrs. Minister, several questions have already been asked to you. I would just like to ask you to point out that it has not been mentioned here, too, what happens with the restoration of Mafra lanes and the six basilica bodies which, during the PSD Government and the CDS, have been stopped, and this government has already given the decisive impetus for its restoration to be done, as I think I know. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u293	Mr José Carlos Barros of the PSD has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u294	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr and Mr Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Culture, beginning with welcoming you and wishing you the best happiness in this new position, let me remind you that your presence here today, as Minister of Culture, is the evidence and recognition of the failure of this government's cultural policy in an area that goes on average to one minister per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u295	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u296	Of course, this does not go away with replacements in office, so we will not, therefore, give you political responsibility for the inaction that has characterized the last three years. You talked here about Mafra's lanes, and good! This State budget is largely a return to the past. Let us look at this example: as Mr. Minister answers, when we opened the State Budget and we saw announced the work of the Mafra lanes for 2019, when the then Minister, in January 2016, had announced it for 2017 and his predecessor had announced it in 2017, for 2018? It just looks like three works, but there hasn't been one yet! [[PSD applause.]] I ask, Mr Minister, it is confirmed that, next year, the new model of management of the museums announced by the Budget will come into force without seeing its budgetary framework. And I wonder if, after all, it is no longer a pilot project, as announced in 2016, if it is no longer a new institute, as announced in 2017, and if, after all, it will be approved to run, by the end of this year, as announced, a regime that is being so criticized and that the Ministry continues to refuse to discuss itself. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u297	In reply, Mrs. Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u298	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will organize the answers by areas, since I have been asked a number of cross-questions, which have dealt with the same matters. Let us start with the issue of VAT for shows: the Government's proposal represents an improvement by lowering that tax from 13 % to 6 %, in view of what exists today. We have been listening to several agents in the sector — I will meet with some of them still during this phase — and what we mean is this: this is an improvement, the rest of us will discuss in the specialty. As for the Tauromachy, Mrs Deputies, it is not a matter of taste, it is a question of civilization, and we will keep it as it is. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u299	You're going to say that in Setubal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u300	As regards cinema, what is in this proposal for a State Budget is that, through legislative authorization, the Government may legislate in this regard on independent cinemas. In terms of cinemas, the question is your great capacity to deduct VAT, and that is why we will do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u301	And the PCP shut up! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u302	As regards the question of the autonomy of the museums and the various questions that have been raised about the museums, we will, in fact, continue with the work that has already been developed regarding the autonomy regime of the museums. We will do so in dialogue with the directors of museums throughout the country, and it is precisely in this sense that we will continue after the discussion of the State budget. We now have a well-established basis to which we can move forward in the autonomy of the museums. I remember that this issue of the autonomy of museums is something that has been dragged down for many years, that has never been resolved and that we will now resolve, opening for the future, prospects for an increasing autonomy that, in the current legislative framework, would not be possible. As regards the issues raised by the CFP on monitors and on human resources, as I said, we have been working with the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage, with all national museums and monuments in order to strengthen the number of vigilantes, particularly through this programme, which is very important, in conjunction with the MAI (Ministry of Internal Administration), but also with other programmes under way to strengthen the human and technical resources, at the service of national museums and equipment. Mrs Ana Mesquita here gave an example concerning Cinemateca and its laboratory, the ANIM, exactly one of the projects that we have now identified in the framework of Community financing projects. This laboratory is, in fact, a pearl, being of the few laboratories that exist in Europe to make the recovery of the film espólio and the recovery for digital. It is a laboratory that has been without the necessary human resources and resources for many years and is currently identified for funding under a Community project. With regard to the question of heritage — another of the areas here very focused on what has been said in my speech — this is, in fact, absolutely fundamental and we must find ways to recover and rehabilitate. It is that heritage has been left forgotten over the years, and today we have a situation that we really need to attach. There is extraordinary heritage in this country, which represents our national identity and that we must be able to rehabilitate, either with the Revive program or with other heritage recovery programs, joining, for example, the artistic programming with the appreciation of the heritage, affecting it for other uses that are not only the tourist use, as the honourable Member mentioned here. It is exactly in this line that we will work, to cross cultural programming with the appreciation of heritage. In fact, I can give here as an example something in which we are working, within a project on the sculptor Cutileiro, precisely in order to be able to receive his work and his husband in Évora and there is a core, unique and exclusively, dedicated to the work of this great sculptor, this core linked to the Museum of Évora which, from January onwards, will become a national museum. So it's exactly that crossing that we're going to work. This is what we need to do, not only to strengthen tourism and the economy — although it is also important for this — but also to strengthen other areas related to heritage. On the question of Mrs Deputy on the National Centre for nautical and Sub-Aquatic Archaeology, many questions have been asked — it is almost a government programme. This center, which you referred to, will be in Xapregas. The work is ongoing and we hope to be able to provide access to this equipment and strengthen it by means in the first quarter of next year. It is indeed an absolutely necessary and extraordinary work. Today, there is a underwater archaeological heritage in conditions that do not allow for its preservation and of which no one can enjoy, but it will be possible to do it right there in Xapregas, where we hope it is also possible to create another cultural pole. [[P.S. and, standing by, Mr. PAN André Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u303	Mr Ivan Gonçalves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u304	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We have discussed and approved today the fourth budget presented by a government to which the right of parliament had a short existence. Today, we discuss the last budget of the state of this legislature, the fourth budget which reverses the trajectory followed by the previous government, of impoverishment, of loss of rights, of sacrifice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u305	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u306	... always in the name of an ideological commitment, in the name of a blind austerity that, instead of solving the structural problems of our country, aggravated them. [[PSD protests.]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the fourth budget of a parliamentary majority and a government that places the country and, above all, the Portuguese as the main political priority of the Portuguese state. We will continue, therefore, the path of economic growth, increase in wages and pensions, investment in public services, with a budget made to correspond to the legitimate desires of the majority and not only to the interests of some. All of this is compatible with the lowest budget deficit in our recent history and with a new decrease in public debt, fulfilling objectives that the right has not only been able to achieve when it was government, but that it itself stated as impossible to be achieved with the Socialist Party's revenue. After all, there was an alternative! But the last proof that this is a successful path is the more than 300,000 jobs already created throughout this legislature; it is the unemployment rate that fell to half; it is the young unemployment that, still high, has consistently fallen 10 percentage points, since the Socialist Party entered office. Our country has gained a new breath and a new confidence, which allows it to be more prepared to face the challenges of this and new times. In short, we say that Portugal, the Portuguese and, in particular, the younger Portuguese are today better than they were three years ago. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a Budget which, like its predecessors, returns income and restores rights, but, more than that, creates new borders in the relationship of the State with citizens, deepening its rights, in particular those of the young Portuguese, for example, in housing, with the Porta 65 - Youth Programme, intended for rent by young people, who will have a budget allocation of EUR 18 million in 2019 - are good news for young Portuguese, who find in the absence of housing an obstacle to their emancipation—or even with 1. the Right — Access to Housing Support Programme, which will have four tens of millions of euros in 2019, will increase to EUR 700 million by 2024. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is also a budget which seeks, on behalf of the Portuguese State, to correct a historical injustice. An injustice that our country committed with all those who expected the State to take on as a guarantor of stability and security and who were invited, by the former Government, to leave their comfort zone, to emigrate, to seek a dignified life outside Portugal. To all these Portuguese, with whom the Portuguese State failed, through the previous Government, this Budget seeks to give an answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It seeks to respond with the Regressar programme, which will exclude taxing 50% of the work earnings taken by all those who want to return to Portugal and here have a life accomplished. We all know that there is no measure that, by itself, is sufficient to bring back who has been forced to emigrate, but we also know that the least that the country can do is give these Portuguese people a sign that they do not give up, that they need them and that they have invested the policy followed by the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also a good example of how the Government of the Socialist Party is on the right side of history. And it is also on the right side of history in the way it promotes culture, with its highest ever budget or with the reduction of the VAT of cultural shows. Betting in culture, education and science is the best way for the country to recover from its structural delay and to be competitive enough to avenge in a globalized world. This is the budget which increases by 11, 5 % for more than 600 million euros, investment in science and technology, which guarantees the freeness of school textbooks for all young people up to 12. the year, which follows the policy of promoting sustainable mobility, which already last year had reintroduced the universal discounts on passes for all students under 23 years of age, those discounts eliminated by the myopia of the PSD government / CDS. This is a government that does not forget the displaced students who, outside their usual residence, pursue their studies and which therefore provides for an investment of EUR 125 million in the national housing plan. Of course, the problem of lack of accommodation for displaced students is not solved overnight, but after a decade without investment in this area we are on the right track. This measure joins the possibility that last year the families of the displaced students could deduce, within IRS, the value of the income they pay and that are in many cases too high. But it is also a Budget that defines youth policies, taking into account the imbalances in our country. In view of the imperative need to give new impetus to low-density areas, all families with students in the country will be able to increase the deduction of education expenses in IRS to 1000 € per year. Being on the right side of history also means understanding the need to democratise access to higher education in our country, one of which, throughout Europe, has the highest costs for its frequency. throughout this legislation, the values of the maximum tip for the first cycle of studies were consecutively remaining frozen, which allowed not to aggravate these same costs of frequency. However, in this State budget, the Government was audacity to follow the proposal put forward by Socialist Youth at the last Socialist Party Congress to reduce the tip for the value of two social support indexers, which results in a reduction of more than 200 € per year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is €200 that will make the difference in the pockets of families of all students, but that will be even more meaningful in families with less incomes, which every month make an added effort so that their younger elements can continue their studies. We are thus closer to a cost-free, democratic and accessible education system, but we are also closer to the ideal of a constitutionally planned educational system in which no one is left behind. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at this budget seriously, it is clear that we can only recognize that there is a set of commitments in it that diminishes inequalities and improves the lives of Portuguese people. The right-wing call for these commitments of electoralism. Probably because when he was so addicted to failing to meet the commitments made and to ruling against the majority of Portuguese who confuses seriousness, competence and rigour with electoralism. This right ran into the future of the generations of young Portuguese and now assumes that governance is a success, but saying that this success is the result of the international environment, probably because of misinformation or because they have little time to read newspapers and see what happens out there, and in other days it tells us that we continue to live in austerity, even though this narrative is not understood or confirmed by most Portuguese. This confused right gave us during this debate with a new narrative: that the forecasts contained in this State budget proposal are wrong and that they cannot be reached.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u307	It wasn't just us!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u308	It only shows that they did not learn anything, because the last time they used this argument and claimed that the accounts were wrong and that the budgetary target established in the State budget would not be met in 2016, not only was it hit as Portugal achieved for the first time a deficit of less than 3 %, that your Government has never been able to achieve. [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, some more nervous than others, there's still a lot to do. There are rights that must be deepened, of course! The work is not over yet. Let's not make the mistake of assuming it's okay. Inconformity is part of the left matrix, and that is also why it has been a left government to allow all these successes to be achieved. Because the Socialist Party opens itself to those who govern, for all Portuguese, young and less young, public officials and workers in the private sector, the coast and the interior, ensuring that Portugal is a country with a future where no one stays behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we stand up this afternoon to approve this budget, we will know that with us millions of Portuguese will rise to see this document as an instrument for improving their lives, for dignifieding them and giving them hope in the future with greater equal opportunities. When we get up to approve this Budget, we will also know who will sit. The resented rights will be seated: resented by the success of the country, resented by the policies that place people as the main priority, resented by the recovery of rights, resented by the reconstruction of the territorial and social cohesion of our country, resented by this legislation has shown that its ideological mantra was, after all, a failed recipe! But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this will also give us strength and motivation to continue the work done so far, because whenever the failures, resentments and frustrations on the right are the result of the country's successes, here will be the Socialist Party to do this fight and to ensure that Portugal remains on the right side of history. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u309	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u310	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right has been presented in this debate as a cartoon of itself. There's been time for everything in the last two days. There was time for ear slogans: « Budget elastic pill», said Mr Hugo Soares ; « budget oria» ; « popes and cakes », said another PSD Member ; « achievement»; « ambush» ; « illusion». We've heard all this, often, in the last few days.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u311	I should hear more!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u312	There was time for warnings, there was time for agonists: « In 2019 it is that it is! » ; « in 2019 you will see! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” In 2019 it is that all the problems that no one feels, that no one has seen, but that the right knows that it is there, although no one feels and no one sees. [[PSD protests.]] in these two days of debate, there was also time for lies. Mr. Carlos Silva said that this budget had painful and gross cuts. Liar! There are no cuts in this State budget. [[Isn't there?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u313	in this budgetary debate there was, above all, a long time for provocation. At 18 hours and 51 minutes yesterday, Mr. Hugo Soares accused the Bloc and the PCP of being complicit with the government: at 19 hours and 9 minutes, it was the government that was arrested at the Bloc and the PCP; at 19 hours and 38 minutes, the Block was content with « migalhas», « lentils»; then it was the PS that was radicalized and again in the Bloc and PCP pocket. And the provocation continued over these two days. [[PSD protests.]] during this debate, the provocation continued and extended to the budgetary negotiation: « Sala das cookies », dispensed Mr Crisóvão Crespo ; « pure trade negotiation, in which Portuguese are exchange coins », Adam Silva said ; « potatoes to me, potatoes to you, all to feed the salary leaf that supports the electorate », another Member said. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, of course we are concerned about this level of budgetary debate and it is even a bit awkward, but the fact is that this debate and this way of discussing are also very revealing what the PSD and CDS understand about the budgetary process. What is 'pure trade negotiations', Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Was it the work of months that we did with informal caregivers to have an informal caregiver status? Oh, my God! It was the increase in pensions in January, which we fought to achieve? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Were those the tough fights we had against energy rents? Oh, my God! Is that the 'pure trade negotiation'? Oh, my God! Is it so much that we fought for the bricklayers to have a fair reform regime and that we finally achieved it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u314	This is a farce!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u315	What is it, sirs. Members, "wage sheet supporting the electorate"? What do you mean when you talk about it? Are you talking about the increase in the national minimum wage? Oh, my God! Is this the increase in the "wage sheet that sustains the electorate"? Are you talking about careers and fair increases in public service? Oh, my God! Mrs. Members, during this debate, whenever the CDS and PSD referred to civil servants, pensioners, nurses, teachers, senior technicians of diagnosis and therapy, precarious and poor, it was not to solve their problems, it was not to present proposals, it was to use them as a weapon of shooting against the parliamentary majority, it was to instrumentalize them, it was never to solve their problems. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u316	This really ends in farce!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u317	It's the absolute comedy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u318	Do you want proof of this? The PSD talks about civil servants, but when it came time to vote the PREVPAP voted against the end of precariousness in public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u319	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u320	When it was time in the 2018 State Budget to regularize the situation of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, he voted against, and that is why this proposal was not forward. The CDS, which is outraged by the coverage of the early reform regime, is the same CDS that created the most perverse regime of the early reforms that this country has already seen by Mota Soares. It is the same CDS that in 2017 voted against the Left Block proposal for the end of the sustainability factor for all people over 60 years of age and with 40 years of discount.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u321	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u322	So, what now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u323	The CDS is not concerned about the reformed. The CDS wants to use the reformed as a weapon of shooting against the parliamentary majority and as an instrument of its own political propaganda. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that throughout this legislature, whenever the PS was more PS, it was supported by the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u324	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u325	Whenever the PS was more PS to prevent new advances in labour law, new advances in social rights, it always counted on the support of PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u326	Look!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u327	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we take the Budget very seriously. We want to discuss it, we want to approve proposals and I want to register the interests of the Left Block in the specialty so that they know what interests we are defending.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u328	It's the lobbies!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u329	We want measures against real estate speculation and promoting the right to housing. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] We want the linkages of transport passes across the national territory. We want fairer taxes on wealth, fairer taxes on profits of large companies. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember when I came here to defend the tax on luxury heritage and the honourable Members. Members said it would be the end of the middle class,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u330	That's right! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u331	...that investors would run away. You know what happened? Today there is another tax to finance social security and to pay for the reforms that we defend. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Well, we remember those times.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u332	They don't want to hear that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u333	We want to extend the rules of the sustainability factor also to the reformers of the public service and we want to know how the right will vote at that time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u334	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u335	We want measures to combat energy income and we want to know how the right will vote at that time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u336	First you understand the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u337	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u338	I will finish, Madam President. We want to increase the supply of university residences and we want better conditions for the Tax Authority to fight tax evasion, money laundering and corruption. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall finish by saying that Mr Prime Minister has chosen not to speak in this debate. It was preferable that it should be otherwise, in this is the last debate of the Budget of the Parliament,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u339	...but one thing is right, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: as far as the Left Block is concerned, we will be here on 29th to vote for a budget better than we have today. There's a lot of work ahead of you. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u340	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u341	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Minister for Finance said here yesterday, and I quote to be strict: 'we only promise what we can do'. However, during this debate, it became clear that the promises or nominations, such as the status of the informal caregiver or the increase in public investment, were planned for example in education last year, for example, an increase of 44 % but then the implementation is, as if 14 %, what can be consulted on page 12 of the UTAO report, or, then, the promises are subject to a kind of revisionism, whether interpretative, as in the case of early reforms or in the repositioning of teachers, in which no one has yet understood well that we are left, is substantial, as in the additional ISP, which has gone from fiscally neutral to an environmental argument for a means of financing social passes. But this "we only promise what we can do" has in the announcement of the reduction of propines its most finished example. I went then to look for what the government promised in this matter and see that the Government's programme does not appear. In the joint position with the Left Block, which had this idea originally — I beg your pardon, Mr Ivan Gonçalves — there is no... [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] ...and in the words of the Minister of Protection, until a very short time ago, there was no such thing as this. The Minister even said that he is not in any party agreement of the Government and that he is not in this legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u342	They've been cheated again!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u343	But there was, yes, another government promise in this matter, which contained the position signed with the Block, which was to strengthen the social action in school, which in this Budget remains constant in relation to 2018. And then this strange case is given: what was promised, the strengthening of social action at school, does not appear in the Budget, but what was announced, the fall of the tips, is not there either. And Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education has already informed us that, further to December, he would do his business to find out what the impact of this decrease is. The Minister of Finance continued yesterday to say: "Portuguese can now trust". Can we, Minister? What can we trust? in a budget that does not have money for promises or promises that are then told in anything else that can be paid, preferably in benefits, or only after 2019?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u344	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u345	This reduction in propines was announced as more a return of income, but what the government is doing is increasing the tax burden of all, including those who cannot have children in higher education, as, for example, spoke to Mrs Rita Rato yesterday, the 200 000 civil servants of the Public Administration who earn less than 650 €. He's charging everyone, including these, and then returning only to the richest. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] A recent member of the Socialist Party, on the subject of a set of demographic and birth measures presented by the CDS, said that "the CDS is a friend of few families, it is only a friend of some families",...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u346	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u347	... but after all, we have learned that it is the government, of which this Member, by chance, is now also Secretary of State, and also the Block and the PCP that are friends only from some families. By the way, Prime Minister, karma is a very complicated thing. See there that the word 'demography' appears only once in the State budget! Perhaps, the gentlemen. Members will think: « well, of course it appears as an integrated policy to combat the demographic problem, even to bring about the promise of Mr. Prime Minister, as Secretary-General, at the Congress of the Socialist Party », but no, it appears only once as a saving, a saving of EUR 25 million in education! The Minister of Finance told us yesterday that the Portuguese can have hope. You may, Mr Minister of Finance, but it is not with this budget, it is with the elections that we are going to have in a year. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u348	Mr. Minister for the Environment and Energy Transition, João Pedro Matos Fernandes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u349	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues of government : It is the first time, and with great honour, that I address this House as Minister who also has responsibility for the energy transition in Portugal. To talk in energy transition is to talk about three things that complement each other: firstly, to produce more energy from renewable sources; secondly, to be more efficient in use — the cheapest energy is that which is not spent and so I will also talk about housing — ; thirdly, to electrify transport and intervene in urban mobility, promoting soft, shared modes and, above all, collective transport. Transport is now responsible for 24% of greenhouse gas emissions in Portugal and three-quarters of final oil consumption in our country. They are still one of the main sources of air pollution in Europe, with impacts on human health, especially because their emissions are concentrated in cities and soil levels. in a trajectory of carbon neutrality, the one we pursue, the transport sector is among those who must have a greater transformation and where dependence on fossil fuels should decline further. By 2050, the reduction of emissions in this sector must reach 90 %. In anticipation of what is expected, and soon will be presented in the conclusions of the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality, we can state that by 2030 at least one third of the demand for mobility will be satisfied by low-emission vehicles, essentially collective and shared. The investment that is already under way—is not projected, is ongoing—in public transport in Portugal has no precedent in the last two decades. It is EUR 150 million already being realized in the acquisition of more than 500 high-environmental buses and, by chance, in the Port Metropolitan Area there are even buses on the street. It is EUR 137 million, the competition is public and is in the square for the acquisition of 14 triple units for the metro in Lisbon and a new security system for the metro itself, which will allow frequencies to increase. During the month of November, the competition will be launched for the acquisition of 18 compositions for the Port metro and, during the month of December, the invitation to tender with 57 million euros of investment for the acquisition of 10 new ships for Transtejo and Soflusa. We also already have the declaration of environmental impact for the expansion of the Lisbon metro and that of Porto is currently under consideration by APA (Portuguese Environment Agency), but the expansion works, at a value exceeding EUR 500 million, will even be launched between the end of this year and the beginning of the next year. I recall that the operational programme, which I have the honour to manage, the PO SEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources) did not have a penny to make investments in collective transport, except for buses, because so the previous Government had left it programmed. Of course, we are concerned about the immediate response to the search. The demand has already increased by 5 % this year, after the recovery of 23 million passengers in a single year in 2017, never forgetting that during the previous government 100 million passengers have been lost in the system. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance that compensation payments are tripled in government-protected companies in the next year and therefore there is this great maintenance effort made in the metro of Lisbon, where the previous 30 three-fold units stopped today are only 12 and will all be in operation until the beginning of the year. But it is imperative to promote the use of collective transport. We cannot have a society in which a family opts to use individual transport for this being cheaper. The mobility survey that the INE ( National Institute of Statistics) made public last summer shows that there are virtually no families with 3 or more elements that have passed. It's cheaper, I repeat, it's cheaper individual transport. It is therefore absolutely necessary to lower the price of passes. This was an initiative that began by the two metropolitan areas last March and has been worked with the Government since then, which led to the construction of the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction, the PART, which in this Budget will now transfer to the metropolitan authorities and to the inter-municipal communities EUR 83 million, naturally reinforced with the funds that will be those of the authorities themselves. What are the objectives? First of all, give the transport authorities the top priority in managing the ticket and fix prices; secondly, be for the whole country, I repeat, be for the whole country; thirdly, ensure that a minimum of 60 % of the amounts allocated are to reduce tariffs — cheaper passes, family passes, free for under 12 years — and those who make these decisions are the transport authorities, which, I repeat, are the inter-municipal communities or the metropolitan areas; fourthly, allow the remaining 40% to be applied in the increase in supply. The sum for the country was calculated in an absolutely transparent way: a very simple algorithm that multiplies the population of each CIM (intermunicipal community) or metropolitan area by the percentage of travel in public transport, by the average travel time of home-school or home-work. It remains assured that all social support, sub23, 4 /NP 18, Social +, are not on this account and continue to be provided by the Government. This is a fundamental measure and of the greatest importance for first of all to improve the availability of family incomes; secondly, to promote the use of collective transport and thereby the quality of urban life; thirdly, to contribute decisively to the decarbonisation commitments to which the Government is obliged and, more than that, to which it believes as a basis for the new economic development project in Portugal. This began in April, because it was impossible before April for the metropolitan authorities and the inter-municipal communities to negotiate with the transport operators the realization of the new banking system and the consequent tariff system. The budget of this Ministry, without counting the energy component, rose 17 % compared to 2018. This is because the revenue from the environmental fund almost triples, because housing is stated within the State budget and by this government as a central policy in our action. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our commitment is to do everything, together with the authorities, so that, at the commemoration of the 50 years of the April Revolution in 2024, the 26 000 families who live today in outraged conditions have a home to meet their aspirations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This year, therefore, the State budget contains an amount of EUR 40 million for programme 1. the right — Access to Housing Support Programme and the multiannual framework up to 2024. Like the Tax Reduction Support Programme, EUR 40 million for 1. the law corresponds to a breakdown of policies with the past that are all beneficiaries, especially the most needy, because these are those with whom the government is most concerned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u350	Mr Minister, you have a request for clarification from Mrs Cristas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u351	Mr President, Minister, I have been listening very carefully to your intervention and I could certainly ask you a number of questions about family passes, which we agree on, as well, we have already proposed in the Lisbon Chamber, or about the expansion of the Lisbon metro to the western area, which is a priority for us, or even for the Lisbon airport, which is perhaps the most serious issue of the capital city at the moment. But the country is not only Lisbon, Mr Minister, and I am surprised how in an intervention as Minister of the Environment, the Minister does not have a word on the issue that must be given priority in our country, the issue of water. He speaks in climate change, talks in energy transition, talks in CO2 reductions, but does not speak of a central theme, which is the fact that the Iberian Peninsula, Portugal and Spain, are the regions of the globe most exposed to climate change. This means that the issue of water must be placed with a high importance on our political agenda. My question is very simple, Minister: are you or are you not paying attention to this question? Are you or are you not paying attention to the need for strategic water reserves? Do you or do you not pay attention to the need for irrigation, not to have a competitive agriculture, but to occupy the territory, to combat desertification, to have an effective adaptation and resilience plan for climate change? Mr Minister, for us, the issue of water is so important that today we have to start thinking about desalination. My question is very clear: what investments will you make in this area? What are you planning to do in the country, because the country isn't just metropolitan areas? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u352	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Assunción Cristas, in fact, the issue of water is central to our policy, and I fear - it has been demonstrated in a variety of ways. First of all, we invested nearly 500 million euros in the country, in the area of the urban water cycle, and secondly, we made the links that no one had ever made, mainly in the Alentejo, by putting EDIA (Development and Infrastructure Company of Alqueva, SA) and the Waters of Portugal working together to, from the basin of Guadiana, more specifically Alqueva, be able to supply the basin of Sado, which is undoubtedly where there are problems of more structural shortage.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u354	That was already planned!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u355	There were also several actions we carried out so that, when last winter—and I did not cheat! — we had the drought we had, the water was not missing from any of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u356	Inside the country, the supply was made with tank trucks!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u357	In fact, when we think about water, our focus must be on managing demand and not on increasing supply. Yes, there are some initiatives that need to be done, because there are places in the country where there is no guarantee of even inter-annuality, even for human supply, that Viseu is a very clear case. As it is evident, because water is not created and because Portugal is located in the Mediterranean basin, which is one of the regions of the globe where the natural replenishment of water through rain is less than consumption, it is even in the efficiency that we have to work. That is why recreation programmes are so important, even though you did not give any importance to this matter when you were in government. These programmes are absolutely important, but more important than increasing the area of irrigation is to be much more efficient in the use of water and to end the irrigation by flooding, which is, in fact, extremely inefficient, not having enough water in Portugal to act in this way. Through the PO SEUR are guaranteed EUR 80 million, and in the programme we inherited, there was an easy-to-fix forecast of €0 to intervene in the hydrographic network, something we are now doing in the whole country. We added this amount to it because, in fact, we put into operation within the Environmental Fund what was the Portuguese Water Resources Fund, of which revenues had never been invested more than 30 % to 40 %, and, with what we are doing in the recovery of the entire hydrographic network in the 64 fire-affected municipalities, we are talking about more than 16 million. Over the next year, the watershed scarcity plans will be completed, which are a planning figure that does not even exist in Community rules but that we consider of the greatest importance, naturally giving priority to the use of water. In addition, until the first quarter of next year, we will have a very clear bet on the circular economy in the field of water, ensuring that the 50 largest wastewater treatment stations ( ETAR ) in the country will use between 10 % and 20 % of the effluents treated, for example in the washing of streets in cities and in water systems in agriculture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u358	Mrs. Members, we are moving on to the closing period of the debate, in general, of the Bills Nos 155 and 156 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ). For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u359	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government : Today we close the debate, in general, of a State budget that maintains, in the last year of this legislation, the same trajectory as regards debt and the replacement of income with balance, insofar as it does the satisfaction of all needs and disputes, and therefore without ruptures with the budget line followed by this government in recent years. The NAP particularly values the fair returns and social responses to whom it needs the most, based on responsible and sustained budgetary management in the signs of the economy and the goals to be met. But one day after the Galp took over the defeat imposed by the court, which gave reason and voice to the environmental movement, it should be noted that this budget proposal still contains inconsistencies with regard to policies in the area of energy and climate, in particular with the introduction of measures that penalise renewables and exclude from the extraordinary contribution the electricity produced by fossil fuels and which determine the reduction of the national carbon rate. This unsustainable and protective pattern of the interests of some groups is also evident in the obsolete policies of the agricultural sector, from which there are still no measures to implement the National Strategy for Biological Agriculture, while strong incentives remain for the unsustainable agricultural industry and for intensive and superintensive food production. But if the policies of the agriculture sector have stagnated in the 20th century, there are frankly positive signs that this government is giving, as it approaches the positions of the NAP, accepting our measures, which in turn represent the concerns and priorities of many citizens and of many citizens. We recognize and appreciate the role that the Government has played in the implementation of the NAP proposals aimed at a strong reduction in the production and consumption of plastics and the extension of incentives to electric mobility, as well as its openness to the implementation of fairer inclusion policies, such as the creation of support offices for students with special educational needs and the hiring of Portuguese gestual interpreters for the National Health Service. I cannot fail to emphasize humanism and sensitivity to read the values of 21st-century society by the members of the Government and the Socialist Party, who have undertaken the ethical commitment to end tax exemption from the Tauromach industry, which was a capocious way of publicly financing this sector, creating a gross tax distortion and promoting huge tax injustice. As long as there is no political courage to abolish this anachronistic practice, these people who live from torture and abuse to third parties, who add no value to society, must at least pay taxes, like all those who work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u360	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u361	Mr Prime Minister, Mr Leader of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in recognition of your openness to accept our proposals, and because the word given is an honest word, we shall vote in favour of the State budget, in general. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u362	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u363	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this Parliament, it has already become clear that, the better the Portuguese live, the better the country will be. In other words, the theory of former governments was laid down by land, and of the former PSD/CDS government, in particular, which argued that for the country to improve, it was necessary for the Portuguese generality to live badly, to make enormous sacrifices and to get used to a certain dimension of impoverishment, something intolerable to any environmentalist. The fact is that, if they have better incomes, Portuguese contribute to the dynamisation of the economy, job creation and reduction of unemployment, generating better public accounts. So continue to do the opposite of what the PSD/CDS Government has done and would have done in relation to wages, pensions, social support and taxes is decisive in this Budget and the fruits are patented, for example, in the numbers on job creation. But there must be full awareness that the PS alone would not have promoted these achievements. We still remember Mr. Prime Minister's words about the need to choose between increasing public service salaries or hiring more civil servants. We could not accept this choice, nor should we reach the end of this legislation by maintaining the freezing of the wage increase, which has lasted for about 10 years. This increase in far-CL wages will occur in 2019. Knowing that this is a matter that will be defined in negotiations with the unions, The Greens consider that the important thing is the effective recovery of purchasing power and that it is not worth doing, as Mr. Minister for Finance did, to mix this issue with the thawing of career progressions. The thawing of wage increases is one thing and the thawing of career progressions is another. And now, with regard to the latter, the government is in great debt to teachers and other professionals in a similar situation with regard to the counting of all the time of service. We don't forget that! We also do not forget the fear of environmentally negative decisions for the territory, which the struggle of the people shows is possible to reverse even when the government does not want to do so. Therefore, when Galp and Eni declared the withdrawal of oil research off Aljezur, it was proven, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth fighting for the right to the environment. Another crucial issue for the Greens in this Budget was the increase in public investment in order to provide public services with greater capacity to respond to citizens. After the PSD/CDS government had brutally disinvested in fundamental public services, having as a horizon its delivery to the private sector, it was inevitable to leverage this investment, particularly in health, education, culture, environment or transport. For culture, being relevant measures such as VAT reduction for cultural shows, however, we are still so far from 1 % of the State budget for culture. And why not reach the 25 million to support the arts? The country has everything to gain from this, in the context of artistic creation and the use of culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u364	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u365	The promotion of public transport is crucial for combating climate change, for cohesion of the territory, for guaranteeing the right to mobility of populations and for generating more sustainable urban centres. An important incentive for this effect is a social pass with an effective tariff reduction, applied nationally and cumulatively with the existing discount for steps 4 /NP 18 and sub23 and also with the full deduction of the VAT of social passes within IRS, subjects for which The Greens have fought and worked. With regard to the railway, we insist that it is urgent to invest in rolling material, in sufficient number of workers, in infrastructures and line modernization, breaking the cycle of closure and de-investment in which the PSD/CDS government has been eximilar. And there are investments that cannot continue in the drawer, with the relevance they have, for example, to combat the interiority, as is the case with the electrification of the White House / Beja section, to make the direct connection to Lisbon, with its connection to Funcheira. If you want to generate development potential of the territory, these are decisive investments. The problem that the Greens see as worrying is the government's obsession with the deficit. The Minister of Finance repeated several times that the deficit would be 0,2 %. And what's the problem if it's 0, 5 % or another value? Why does it refuse to develop in this country because of stagnant deficit numbers? Why is the country constantly denied more resilience and environmental, social and economic robustness because of the deficit? A country that does not have a good capacity to produce goods and services that are environmentally sustainable and therefore does not have an effective capacity to generate wealth does not guarantee good public, sustainable and future accounts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens will vote in favour of the State budget, in general, but, in the field of debate in the specialty, there is still much to work in order to improve the Budget, which can gain more capacity to build a better country, with more justice and better environmental and social standards. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u366	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the PCP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u367	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The proposal for a State budget that we are debating and we are going to vote today, in general, will be the last of the legislation which, in its course, revealed that Portugal was not condemned to follow a course of systematic economic and social regression, which had been imposed on our people for years. A path which weighs the unquestionable contribution of the CFP and the struggle of workers, translated into reception, in all the budgets of this Parliament, of a wide range of measures to value wages, reforms and pensions, of rising social benefits, of tax relief for employment incomes and of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which are important advances and progress in the replacement and conquest of rights and in the living conditions of the Portuguese. Measures that were a factor in the dynamization of economic activity, growth and decrease of unemployment and also the increase in state revenues, including social security, and which caused the retrograde thesis to land which defended that, in order to develop the country, it was necessary to impoverish the people and reduce the state to a minimum of the minimums, decompromising it of its economic and social functions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u368	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u369	...thesis that the previous PSD/CDS government has implemented in its government practice, broadening and exacerbating all the problems that have led to years of right-wing policy of its predecessors. Yes, that time when the PSD/CDS government did not just give with one hand and take away with the other, when they took out with the two who worked or worked, infernicing their lives. [[PCP applause.]] This has not yet been a time for the full response to the solution of national and Portuguese problems, nor has the current proposal under discussion of the 2019 Budget been shaped for this purpose, conditioned by constraints and political options of a government that assumes by its own option the structural axes of a policy committed to the interests of large capital and of submission to the European Union and to the Euro. They are the Government's own options and not just external taxation, well-visible options in the budgetary strategy, providing for a deficit of 0, 2 % of GDP in the granting of the criteria imposed from Brussels, which are disconnected from the country's needs, the drainage of hundreds of millions of euros of public resources for the financial sector or the maintenance of a tax system of benefits that favours the protection of large capital and its profits. Four budgets of the returned State point out an unmistakable fact: it is not possible to reconcile the necessary and demanding response to the structural problems that the country's situation demands with its subordination to the rules of the European Union, whether the deficit or the binding on an unsustainable debt. The budget proposal therefore carries the mark of these constraints and options that limit the response to the country's structural problems, which is indispensable for ensuring its economic and social development, although it is not ignored or underestimated that this budget is equally marked, as the last three, by the acceptance of a set of positive measures corresponding to new progress and progress in the replacement and conquest of rights. It is a proposal that consolidates the steps taken in the previous budgets, which adopts and incorporates new advances that meet felt needs and aspirations of broad layers of the Portuguese population, from then on a new extraordinary increase of €10 and €6 of retirement pensions. Its realization for the third consecutive year is inseparable from the decisive action of the CFP, without which it would never have existed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u370	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u371	In 2019, for the first time, its enforcement far-CL will be fully effective from January, ensuring an accumulated increase of 30 € for these pensions, which were frozen from 2011 to 2015. I will not fail to point out the full replacement of the Christmas allowance for all workers and pensioners, whose meaning is beyond the undeniable expression in each person's life. It was the right itself that was involved, but in November it will be realized and recovered! [[PCP applause.]] We also want to see the extension of the conditions for access to reform by long-term workers. Although far from the right to reform without penalty with 40 years of discount due to those who have worked a lifetime, it is a step that must be taken with the eyes set forward and not to think about more restrictive regimes. Other measures are considered, as a result of the persistence of the CFP, of which I would like to highlight the allocation of free school textbooks in the 12 years of compulsory schooling, covering 1, 2 million children and young people who attend the public network and which will translate into today's values into a savings of € 1600 per student over the 12 years of schooling;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u372	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u373	... the termination of the special payment on account, which will benefit more than 100 000 micro and small entrepreneurs, following other measures already taken at the fiscal level and aimed at other levels of the population; the recovery and increase of social benefits, such as family allowance; a new extension for children between 3 and 6 years of age, consolidating and expanding important advances already made in the last three Budgets for children up to 3 years, although far from universalization of access to this benefit advocated by the CFP. But I would also like to highlight the maintenance of the extraordinary support scheme for long-term unemployed, which was included by the CFP initiative in the 2017 State Budget and expanded in 2018, as well as the improvement of the conditions of access to social unemployment allowance, which corrects the situation of these workers for months and months without receiving support or any reform. We have seen further advances in the expansion of social passes and cost reduction in public transport, the reduction of propins, the possibility of reducing gas and electricity costs, among other matters, including support for family agriculture and craft fishing, the purchase of rail rolling stock and vessels for river crossings, the reduction of VAT in cultural shows. to the PSD and to the CDS, which had acquired the irreversibility of the measures of impoverishment and social retrocession that they played, it is only left, as they did in this debate, to say, as in the fable, "are green, do not lend"!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u374	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u375	It is with the aim of ensuring these and other new steps that give expression and response to the legitimate expectations of the Portuguese that the CFP will intervene so that, in the specialty, further changes are introduced that exceed the limited nature of many options of the budget proposal. We will resume the discussion and examination of the proposal, in particular with a view to further progress in the IRS, while at the same time we will be fighting to go further in the taxation of large capital, whether in the compulsory amount of income above €100 000, either through the high-value real estate heritage or through new steps of the state spill. In the expansion of family allowance, disability benefits, the strengthening of social protection schemes for rapid wear and tear, such as miners and stone workers, a more effective reduction in the energy bill for families and businesses and the extension of the reduction of VAT for spectacles, this is also the opportunity to take another step forward, as well as in the perspective that is open in this budget proposal on the increase of wages in the Public Administration, which puts an end to 8 years of freezing. A step forward that will also not forget the commitments made by the Government in relation to legitimate rights, to the full counting of the time of service of teachers, military, service professionals and security forces, among other professionals, in particular the area of justice. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we are short of what is needed to ensure the development of the country, but the CFP has neither lost nor missed any opportunity to ensure that the conditions of life of the Portuguese people are elevated. That is what we have done, honoring our commitment to the workers and the people. That is what we continue to do, without renouncing the struggle for the realization of the true alternative policy that the country needs to stop having the future postponed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u376	For an intervention, the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP has the floor, through Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u377	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The first stage of the debate on the budget which the Government has brought here, the last of this Parliament and the last of these united Lefts is now closed. It is a budget of appearances, deceptions and illusions, where almost nothing seems. in a word, this Budget is an achievement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u378	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u379	It is full, I repeat, filled with machined measures to look pleasant but which, after that, are never good what they want to look like. It is an opaque budget, on which the Prime Minister strategically prefers to shut up, pretend that it is nothing with him and not to debate. It is a hidden budget, in which seeing well and looking carefully at the interlines, nothing seems, nothing is so. [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] Let us look at a few examples of what it looks like but that is not the case. It starts out as it seems that taxes will not increase but then it is not so: the tax burden will reach the highest value ever in 2018, a new record, after the already reached in 2017. [[PS protests.]] In 2019, the Government will end its legislation by charging more than EUR 7 billion of taxes to Portuguese than at the beginning of this legislation. This is the balance sheet of your governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u380	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u381	It seems that the government will finally eliminate the overtax of gas and gasoline, but then there it is, it is not. In fact, with the providential carbon rate, which yesterday was omitted, the gas oil will not only be at the rate of more than 6 cents per litre as it will still increase more than 1 cent per litre, while the gasoline will only drop 2 cents per litre. That is why indirect taxes will continue to increase and the government expects the Portuguese to pay more than EUR 211 million only with the gas and gas tax next year. The Minister of Finance who comes here to announce the drop in petrol is the same thing as he is skilfully not talking about the rate of carbon and the increase in gas oil. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In fact, it is good to remember that in 2016 it also seemed—and it was promised and sworn—that this increase in petrol and gasoline would be neutral. But then, of course, it wasn't like that. The increase came to stay and the Budget expects to charge more EUR 1400 million in 2019 than in 2015 only in petrol and gasoline. These are the measures that are always out of the opportunistic accounts of returns that please management and the united left. It also seemed that more beneficial rules were established for long-contributory reforms, the 60 / 40 rule, but then we saw that this is not so. What justice is there to suggest that those who started working at the age of 20 can retire without penalty at the age of 60, while those who started at the age of 21 must work another 5 and a half years until obtaining the same right?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u382	A scandal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u383	Looks like the electricity tax is going down, but then it's not like that. Most families will not, at least, be covered by the measure, and we are just talking about VAT on the rental of counters and not on the VAT of light. It seems that the economy is growing, but then it's not like that. For the second consecutive year, in 2019 the Portuguese economy will slow down again, it will grow less than in the previous year. Most countries in Europe grow well above Portugal and the balance sheet of legislation is of a loss of productivity. In companies, it seems that the PEC was going to be eliminated, but then it's not like that. The CFP will be replaced by another mechanism and companies will have an effective increase in IRC — indeed, one of the highest in Europe — by increasing autonomous taxes. It's the same PEC another way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u384	That's nothing like it! Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u385	Management is very easily forgotten that companies, the private initiative, have created the more than 300 000 jobs they so much value. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It seems, too, that extraordinary hours would pay less taxes, but then it's not like that. In fact, the workers who make this extra effort will have fewer withholdings in the source in 2019 but—after they have voted, of course! — in 2020 you will receive the tax account that you have to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u386	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u387	It is a genuine achievement and a double injustice for these workers who make an additional effort. Looks like the IRS won't increase, but then it's not like that. Since the IRS tables are not updated, who has increases according to inflation, yes, it will even pay more taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u388	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u389	Looks like the propines are going down, but then it's not like that either. In fact, there are at least 1500 students who will no longer receive scholarships and school social action maintains the same value as in the previous year. It seems that the VAT of the shows will be refunded at 6 %, but then it's not like that. There are several shows that stay outside, some depending on the location, others based on prejudices. The VAT of culture, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not a taste VAT and should include all cultural manifestations, without dependence on the site, including, of course, those that are traditional in Portugal, such as the Tauromachia. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Minister and Mrs. Members may not like tauromachia, but this tradition and the many Portuguese people whose life is part of it deserve respect, respect which, in fact, today, has been lacking here when we talked about it. It is not your taste that defines civilization! [[CDS-PP applause.]] It seems that there will be support measures directed at informal caregivers, but then it is not so. There are no words in the Budget, I repeat, none, addressed to informal caregivers. It seems that the government announces the construction of new hospitals, but then it is not. They are exactly the same hospitals that have already been announced and reannounced several times and during several Budgets. It seems that the deficit is low to 0, 2 % of GDP, but then it's not like that. In fact, from the accounts of the independent entity UTAO, the deficit will be 0, 5 %. It seems that the government felt that public investment was essential, but then it was not. During this legislature the public investment recorded values well below what we had during the adjustment period, and with the troika here. The 2020 Railway Plan, for example, which the Government presents as a major booster of public investment, has a 5 % implementation from 2016 to 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u390	It is only necessary to set the example of your Budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u391	It seems that the Minister of Finance is proud to correct his forecasts, but that is not the case. Their forecasts for the tax burden have always been exceeded by increases in taxes charged. The Portuguese economy has always, unfortunately, always grown well below the forecasts of the famous document of the wise. And public investment, of course, never, ever, met budget forecasts. Looks like the Left Block and the PCP make a lot of demands, but then, of course, it's not like that. In fact, in the matter of reforms such as teachers, they are satisfied with promises that they are tired of knowing that they will never be fulfilled and, disciplinefully, they will vote for the budget that Minister Mário Centeno understands. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It might even seem, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is proud of its last budget for the united Left, but then it is not. The Prime Minister was ashamed...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u392	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u393	... of the debate here and so far preferred silence to defend their choices. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Whoever believes in what he does, Mr. Prime Minister, is not afraid of the contradiction. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The budget we are debating here today, as indeed this Parliament, is a missed opportunity for Portugal. For more than three years we had a truly exceptional international environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u394	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u395	Europe and the world have grown systematically, the price of oil has been historically low and until recently the monetary policy of the European Central Bank ( ECB ) has originated low interest rates, which is of vital importance for a country like ours, which has high public debt levels. Moreover, and it is important to say it also, the internal conditions, the freedom and sovereignty which the Portuguese have conquered, by passing the adjustment period and by no longer having the troika here, have also allowed a great freedom that has not been taken advantage of.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u396	Instead of talking about sovereignty, get yourself in a hole!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u397	This was the moment that Portugal could actually have jumped and really grown. instead, we stayed behind, with adjustment countries such as Ireland, neighbouring countries such as Spain, or eastern countries, all growing much more than we do. More: this government only dealt with distribution, breaking the cake, and never making the cake grow. It has always defeated companies, independent workers and the private initiative in general. Never, never hesitated to mortgage the future, to buy the permanence in power in the present. [[CDS-PP applause.]] With this, Portugal lost a unique opportunity for growth. Also in relation to the credibility of the State in the exercise of its exclusive functions of sovereignty and security, this legislation was a lost opportunity. The tragedy of the 2017 fires and the way the State failed, at the time when it was most necessary, can never be forgotten. The theft of weapons in Tanks and the subsequent cover of what happened is completely unacceptable. The absolute lack of sense of state with which the Government has dealt with a matter of national defence and security deserves exemplary censorship. As far as sovereignty and security are concerned, this legislation has been the final example of everything a government should not be and cannot do. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This last budget is the mirror of these lost opportunities. He doesn't answer, nor does he care about anything that has to do with the future. For the CDS, there is an alternative, an alternative of ambition in economic growth, of eyes placed in the future, and that leaves no one behind in the present. And because we know that Portugal deserves more, we voted against this budget. [[CDS-PP applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u398	For the closing intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u399	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State Budget for 2019 respects the November 2015 agreements and includes advances that go further than in previous budgets, because they are the fruit of this path, of the consistency of the road travelled. It has been proved in these years what the Block has always defended: the recovery of labour income is an indispensable part of any growth and employment policy, and it only makes fiscal consolidation sustainable. It is also true that growth is also due to a favourable international environment and therefore it is important that this debate does not omit external conditions. We now live an international high energy price period and we must respond to it. Protecting families will mean, sooner than later, a reduction in the VAT rate in all household energy consumption (and the Block did not give up this objective) and also implies eliminating the excessive incomes that continue to weigh on the bill. In the contribution of renewables, there is a big difference between starting to do or just to account, and here we will be, Mr Minister of Finance, for the work of the specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But external conditions can also affect debt and investment, due to our country's exposure to predictable new international financial crises. We therefore have — and that is what we are defending throughout the debate — to use the entire strike generated by economic growth to strengthen the most important defence instrument in the country: the social state and public services. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no shortage of difficult issues in this debate, but in fact, there has been no debate. The right, tied to a defeated economic programme, decided to flee from the budgetary debate for a soup of cases and offline phrases. Not a project line for the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u400	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u401	PSD and CDS require the Budget to have more expenditure, because it is « austerity», and less expenditure, because it is electoralist. The PSD is dazzling with phrases of common sense, such as « sheet wins, sheet spends », moreover, absurd in the budget debate. What should the State do with its resources? Put them under the mattress? Isn't it the State that gets revenue to finance social benefits, services, infrastructure, territory? Oh, my God! What are you talking about? Primary balance? Mrs. PSD Members, I will give you something new: we already have it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u402	Primary balance we've always had, missing is the surplus!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u403	...for years. And you know what? This balance is taken each year by the international financial system, paid in interest of the debt and bailouts of the private bank. But this "spent sheet" has never scandalized the PSD! [[Congratulations from BE.]] The CDS tried another way, that of the Budget that gives with one hand and pulls with the other, as if an old woman who sees the solidarity supplement increase — give with one hand — then lose everything with the additional IMI on the luxury heritage — take the other. But the legend is too primary and then the CDS, without an idea for the Budget, and with the question of the ISP closed right on the first day,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u404	Locked up? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u405	... decided yesterday to jump from the Budget to something else. « Is our proposal missing? Let us talk about Tanks and it may be that no one understands». The case of Tanks is very serious, sirs. Members of the CDS, of course, the problem is that the CDS makes Tanks a mere escape from the budget debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u406	The problem is criminal investigation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u407	In fact, he is risking himself in dangerous ways. We heard Telmo Correia try that old passage on a right that likes cops with dogs and a left that likes bandit songs, and I am quoting you, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u408	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u409	Careful with the imitations, sirs. Members of the CDS! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u410	15 days ago, Assumption Cristas announced an alternative budget of the CDS — no less — now infantilizes Parliament and those who follow this debate, and abdicates any priority, of any proposal. to which the right has come, to which the right has come! Open... Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The budget debate is a debate on projects. How do we respond to an country still so vulnerable to external shocks, marked by social and territorial inequalities, in which 2 million people live on the poverty line? He who hears us, who has chosen us, hopes to hear proposals about his future. The State Budget for 2019 raises two questions that divide the paths on the left and on the right: the first is that of the universality of the social state. Ask the right why we do not invest solely in support for the most vulnerable families. The question has a trail: was it not this right that increased propines and transport prices, at the same time that cut into social support? Oh, my God! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u411	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u412	But let us not flee to the question: why not concentrate resources only on support for the most disadvantaged? Because one thing, sirs. Members, it is the measures to combat poverty, which have, in fact, been strengthened every year, without prejudice to the fact that we can do better, another thing is the defense of the social state, and this, by definition, must be based on the universality of its policies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u413	It works like this: whoever earns more, pays more taxes, earns less, pays less. In public school, we're all treated the same. It is simple, it is called'social status'! [[Congratulations from BE.]] It was the victory for the post-war struggles and it was the social state that made Europe the region of the world with the highest levels of training and well-being. The recovery of universal social welfare platforms takes small steps in this Budget, but it is an essential sign. These benefits can stop the impoverishment of middle-wage families, which do not receive social support and pay a huge bill for the decision to have children. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u414	Lower tips for all, transport passes for all, school textbooks for all. This factor of social cohesion is that it responds to social fragmentation and gives content to democracy. He is the one who stands by the violent populisms that spread across Europe. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Unfortunately, we know that the right side has the whole European institutionality, the entire doctrine of the Treaties, and in particular that of the budgetary treaty, in the process of becoming European iron law. But there are choices! And the left, the left knows that democracy is built only in solidarity. The second question that this budget raises, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is about what we have done with what we have already achieved. We note that the Government has decided to withdraw from the debate the salaries and careers of State workers by referring all decisions for negotiation with trade unions and for legal decrees. We defend collective bargaining — we have fought for it to exist — but we will not abandon the decision on the implementation of budgetary rules and, where we judge it contrary to the agreement and vote, the Bloc will not fail to bring the decrees law to Parliament's judgment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u415	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u416	But let's talk about investment in public services. The Minister of Finance said that he respects both the goals of the deficit and all the others. The reality is that every year, there are goals of the social state and public services that are to be met, so that deficits can be overcome. I give three examples. First example: months of delay in the competitions for the placement of doctors in primary care cost us 40 to 50 professionals, who, however, left for the private or foreign, leaving to meet the goal of access to family doctors. Second example: the goal of reducing the number of students per class in secondary education was abandoned by the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u417	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u418	Third example: the postponement of staff and rolling stock for CP prevents the objective of strengthening rail transport still in this legislature. Mr Finance Minister, Prime Minister, we can do better and, in the Left Block, we will not give up doing better. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Let's look at the pensioners. Retirement pensions, once allocated, remain for the rest of their lives. This principle, which aims at predictability of social security itself, has never raised questions, until reforms have always been declining. Those who were already reformed would only have to lose if they saw the new conditions applied to their case, which could not happen. But many people who now see, in this legislature, reforms improve the sense of injustice, because those who reformed with the rules of the previous government had huge penalties. The most flagrant will be the case of those who started working as a child and, with the rules created by the former Minister of the CDS, Mota Soares, for early retirement, suffered a lot of penalty despite having 46, 48, 50 years of discounts. Can we not, at least for these cases, find a mechanism for correcting injustice? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u419	Don't be worried, gentlemen. Members of the Government, because they vote in favour of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u420	In the past budget, we have opened room for access to the solidarity complement for the elderly, an important but insufficient measure. This year, in the specialty, the Block will propose the following step: the creation of a pension supplement that compensates for the application of the sustainability factor in the pension of those who worked so much and so much discounted. Who was so unjust in childhood, should not be again in old age. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u421	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u422	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to highlight this proposal as one of the many that the Block will present in its specialty. Here we are, with the same spirit of collaboration with which we signed the 2015 agreements, to achieve, in this last Budget and in this Legislation, every step and every step that can be taken, with the same determination as ever — leaving no one behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u423	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos César has the floor to whom I wish to congratulate for his 26 years on the mirror. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u424	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government: Within a few minutes, the fourth and final budget of the State of this legislature will be approved. What was considered impossible will happen, according to the dead Vaticans of the CDS and the PSD, but which, fortunately, became possible thanks to the understanding reached between the Socialist Party and the parties that supported the government's investment. In three years, the Portuguese have recovered benefits, companies have gained confidence and energy, the budgetary imbalance has been corrected, the country has gained sustainability and has gained prestige at European and international level. They won the Portuguese and won Portugal! That was the way we have made in the last three years and that is the way we will take in 2019, with the leadership of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a month we shall make the final vote on the budget. Until then, the PS will freely appreciate each of the proposed amendments and decide with the greatest sense of responsibility. Now, however, one year from the end of the mandate, it is time to account for life and undo the hurdles of the curses of the custom.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u425	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u426	We are all certainly reminded of the willary assurances with which the opposition a little more than a year ago shook. They said: « The country is worse, it is less attractive, it flees investment and investors, it is less credible, almost no one believes in the purposes and results of this government ». On the contrary, private investment has grown by 24 % compared with 2015 and foreign investment has grown by more than 10 billion; the economic climate indicator is at the best level in the last 16 years; and the four main rating agencies, all of them, have increased the classification allocated to Portugal during the mandate of this Government, confirming the progress made. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u427	Stand Firm in the Virgin!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u428	The country, contrary to what they predicted, is better, more attractive, more credible, more sustainable and more confident. And this has been achieved with the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We all remember other sermons repeated by opposition parties, even in these days, about, they say, « Budgets that forget companies » or « Budgets that lack ambition in support of exports ». Once again, reality demonstrates the opposite. When the current opposition was government, exports grew below the European average, now growing more than twice as much in Portugal than in Europe. Last year, about 40 000 companies were created and only in the first eight months of this year 120 companies were created per day. on the contrary, in the four years of the CDS / PSD government, 56 companies went into insolvency each day, two in every hour that passed. The financial autonomy of companies has significantly improved, its profitability has been highest since 2010, its indebtedness has decreased and the percentage of firms with overdue credit, which had tripled in the period of the previous government, is at the lowest level of the last seven years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is for the purpose of strengthening the support measures for companies that this Budget for 2019 also provides, by favouring investment, reinvestment of profits, internationalisation, cost reduction and financing. Portugal is today the second country of the European Union with the highest rate of approval of support for companies in the Community funds and, in view of the same period of implementation of the previous European support framework, the National Strategic Reference Framework, the level of payments increases by 76 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u429	Wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u430	Our companies are stronger, better prepared, more supported, more capitalized, more wealth-generating and, above all, more employment. That is why, in all of this Parliament, in every hour that passes, 11 new jobs are created on average. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is why our satisfaction is great: knowing that hundreds of thousands of Portuguese families have freed themselves from the anguish and deprivations caused by the scourge of unemployment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u431	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u432	...which is due to the entrepreneurship initiative that this government, with the PS, has been able to protect and stimulate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is good to remember that in addition to the reduction in taxes on families in 2019, it was in the last year of the CDS / PSD Government that Portugal had the biggest tax burden ever and that in the last two years, while the tax burden rose in Europe 0, 5 percentage points, in Portugal decreased 0, 3 percentage points. We are also proud of what the new PSD leader depreciately calls when he does not ask for less taxes and more expenses, the « marriage to the poor and the rich ». The truth is that our policies, including those relating to social benefits, have enabled the mitigation of great inequalities and that the available income of Portuguese families had, in 2017, the greatest growth in the last decade, strongly contrasting with the suffocation that, by the way, Rui Rio would most appreciate. This journey shows that we are what would be expected of a left-wing party in the government, who takes care of social support and who is committed to correcting all inequalities. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] But it also shows to the right that it is far from being, in our country, the driving force of confidence and the dynamism of the private initiative. This shows the PS in leadership of one thing and another. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, « the economy does not grow», fear to say the opposition parties and, even as it grows, it seems that the merit is never ours, neither the government nor our entrepreneurs. For these parties, it seems that what happened well was because the devil has forgotten us or because Europe is the holy patron saint who, apparently, had not heeded his prayers before. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] They continued to complain that the economy had grown more in its last year of government than in the first year of the present year. After all, the National Institute of Statistics, last month, was corrected: the economy not only accelerated further in 2016 as it even converged with the euro area. In 2017, it had the greatest growth since the beginning of the century and in 2018 and 2019 will continue on the path of convergence. It says the opposition that Portugal has of the lowest European economic growth. Indeed, even with regard to countries such as Spain or Ireland over the course of this century our growth has been smaller. However, in 2015 Ireland grew 14 times more than Portugal and for the year will not double. In 2015, Spain grew twice as much from Portugal and last year and next year it will grow almost the same. In the last year of the CDS / PSD Government, 19 European Union countries grew more than Portugal. Two years later, it was only 17 years later. But the big difference is that we have finally managed to converge with the European Union from 2017 onwards. And this is good to remember, it is due to the government led by the Socialist Party! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in the continuation of the successes that we will continue, but it is also in the recognition of the most persistent deficits we want and we will work. When we talk about health, for example, it is important to caution the family's obligations in access to care and solve the problems of efficiency and indebtedness of the public service. When we talk about education, it is important to remember that about half a million Portuguese people still do not know how to read and write, that more than half of the adult population in Portugal does not complete secondary education and that almost half of them do not have digital skills. It is necessary to reverse these realities if we are to delay the qualification for the competitiveness that the country needs so much. When we talk about safety at work, we know that more effective progress needs to be made in the implementation of the Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of the Precincts and, strictly speaking, improving aspects of the labour law of general application and, in particular, protecting young people's employment. When over the last decade, the Portuguese population has lost 2 % of its actual population (over 260 000 people) — 1 % in the Azores and 3 % in Madeira —, 77 % of which in the territories of the interior, is the bleeding we have to contain. We therefore welcome the Government's option to intensify public policies aimed at attracting and setting people and businesses within the country and at enhancing their natural resources. When we speak in the justice system, for example, we must have in mind the absolute need for training in our prison system. When we talk about the functioning and modernization of the state, we still have to consider the persistent obstruction of bureaucracy or the path that we have to take in the initiated processes of deconcentration and decentralisation. When we talk about culture, we are aware that it is important to increase its funding, as in the case of science, research and innovation. When we talk about housing, we speak of inaccessibility, with a high social cost, and therefore of a priority that has to be strongly resumed. When we talk about the importance of the sea, for example, we know that we must add more value to the Portuguese economy and to convey greater coherence to the policy of planning and management of the national maritime area. That is all we are now trying to pay more attention. We know that difficulties and shortcomings persist, but we know that we do not only produce hopes as we do. Therefore, we do not forget the successes achieved, we do not comply with the inadequacies that persist, but we do not want, fortunately, reasons to be proud of the results we have achieved with this government, led by the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are all aware of the weaknesses and challenges that, at the external level, can be placed on the economies and on the management of public policies, particularly in European countries. We have therefore sought to introduce financial, economic, social, demographic and environmental sustainability into our development process. We therefore insist on a trajectory of the deficit and public debt that reduces our burdens and allows for future management in this case — as in other cases — with and despite the active resistance of our party partners. For this reason, we helped to strengthen the financial autonomy of companies and to reduce their indebtedness and appeal in the same way, in the case of families who saw their incomes strengthened. That is why we are committed to the recovery of the national financial system and its capacity to support the economy and to face risks. That is why we have made gains in the balances and in the financial stability of social security. Therefore, we have taken as priority a demanding negotiation of European policies with repercussions in our country and now we are committed to the revitalization of the interior and maritime territory. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister and other members of the Government: We have today, thanks to the combination of these results and policies, a more prepared country, a more qualified country! It was of hope that was spoken three years ago. Today, we can say it, it is already certain that most Portuguese and Portuguese can speak! [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u433	You have the floor to intervene in the closure of the debate in general of the State budget, Mr Fernando Negrão, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u434	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government : The Government presents the State Budget for 2019, the latest of the current legislation, as a continuity budget. That is what we agree with: it is indeed a continuity budget! As the 2016, 2017 and 2018 Budgets, the 2019 Budget continues to make the wrong options,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u435	Every head, your sentence!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u436	... continues to have no vision of the future and to privilege the short term, continues to subject the immediate interest of some to the lasting interest of all, remains, in short, an instrument to the service of the maintenance of power and not an instrument to the service of the development of the country. The current budget proposal, going in the same wrong direction as the previous three, will nevertheless go even further, or it would not be 2019 a year of elections and not, this, a socialist government. All Portuguese know the result of this explosive mixture: the electoral year and the socialist government are equivalent to everything! [[PSD applause.]] It is not necessary to go any further, just remember the gap that was in 2009 in the last Socialist Government of Eng. José Socrates : it dropped VAT to 20 % and announced large, enormous, public works. Months later, I was taking away everything I had promised, increased VAT, frozen pensions, cut wages, because after all, the crisis was coming to Portugal. The fact that Portugal had not shown growth levels since 1999 and had a deficit of 9, 3 % was just a minor detail for the Socialist Government. [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] This is the socialist rhetoric, either in 2009 or in 2018! And it is normal so, because at one time and another, the party that rules is the same and many of its main faces repeat themselves. It is therefore natural that the way of doing things is repeated, and that way of doing things is usually accompanied by a sentence, which I quote: "There has never been so much transparency in Portuguese public accounts," said Socrates in 2010 and says, today, António Costa. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Ten years back, we realize that today the way of thinking is no different. It will probably be part of the Socialist Party's DNA, but now with the aggravating customers. in this legislature and, in particular, with this Budget, it is not only the Socialist Party that uses the document as a form of vote struggle in polls, it is also the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. All claim their victories in the final text! Everyone takes responsibility for the most popular decisions! All dispute the dividends of the measures that, whether fair or not, cover their voters. To capture votes, they don't care about mortgage ideological flags like social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u437	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u438	The Left Block and the PCP are now boasting, with the undifferentiated reduction of higher education tips, a measure that translates into the reduction of university scholarships, preventing the access of thousands of students to college so that thousands of others have a premium of more changes to spend. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] And the most unjust: many parents will continue to have no financial capacity to send their children to university, but will be forced to pay the faculty of others with their taxes! [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] A measure that even deserved the suspect Dr. Vital Moreira the epithet of « elective and reactionary measure».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u439	Where goes the social-democracy of the PSD! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u440	Today, we see the PCP and the Left Block dispute the role of spokesmen of the measures that materialize the greatest injustices and greatly increase social inequalities. And, in this shadow game, we always have the Prime Minister, Dr. António Costa, to control this « puppet theatre», judging that in this way he can also manipulate the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u441	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government : This budget is even more electoralist than those of previous years, which, to us, is to say that it is an even more irresponsible and even more misleading budget. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] It is an even more irresponsible budget because it is guaranteeing increases in public service and pensions — structural measures with which it is, of course, difficult to disagree —... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u442	... but do so with the money you receive from extraordinary revenues, in this case, of savings with interest in debt and dividends from Banco de Portugal and the General Deposit Box. It is very simple to imagine how this might go wrong: in 2020, when these revenue sources disappear, where will the government seek the money for this increase in pensions and salaries? [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u443	If it is as it has so far, it will certainly be at the cost of increasing the tax burden. Yes, because, say what they say, we have been with the tax burden at maximum levels ever, masked with the return of incomes that then return to the state through the taxes created — higher taxes and higher taxes! We are not disappointed: when the cyclical revenues disappear, the tax burden will increase, as well as the public debt, which should be declining since 2015 if this was a responsible government and wanted to benefit from the good external environment of the last few years. [[PSD applause.]] But no! The debt continues to increase, even if at a slower rate, but, in absolute terms, we owe today more than ever. Portuguese public debt is the third largest in Europe and the deficit in our economy is the second highest. That's not good news. For all this, we can conclude that the sole reason for this budget is electoral redistribution, which has as its counterpart the absence of direction, the inability to carry out reforms and to define priorities and strategies for the creation of wealth. It was demanding more responsibility! But this government is more concerned about keeping in power than about correcting the country's structural problems. There is no more compelling example than the degradation of public services. Without revenue to cover structural expenditure, there is no money needed to invest in services which citizens pay with very high taxes and which are not provided with the amount and quality due. You see schools: it must not rain inside the rooms and there should be heating so that children do not have to carry blankets from home. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u444	We see hospitals that need human resources and materials to meet the needs of citizens, where unworthy scenarios, such as children receiving oncological treatment in containers, are not even a possibility. [[PS protests.]] We could also talk about transport, security, the protection of citizens, their lives and their possessions. Unfortunately, there are many examples that Portuguese feel every day on the skin. [[PSD applause.]] This is also an even more misleading budget. And he's a cheater, because he doesn't mind the Portuguese. Probably due to the fact that Mário Centeno is the second, fourth and sixth Ministers of Finance in Portugal and the third, fifth and Saturdays President of the Eurogroup. We also have the Budget presented by the Minister of Finance in Portugal and the Budget presented by the Minister of Finance, who is also President of the Eurogroup, to Brussels. This is the only reason why we have three deficits today: the nominal deficit, the structural deficit and, now, the intentional deficit, which is what Minister Centeno presented in the Portuguese Parliament as if it were true. [[PSD laughter.]] In the same proposal, there is a deviation of almost 600 million euros, inscribed on separate pages, which simply Minister Mário Centeno wanted to hide. [[PS Protests and PSD counter-protests.]] And yet this is the government that boasts of not presenting amending budgets. [[PSD applause.]] You can see why now! But if not in the budget proposal, how can we rely on the implementation of the budget? And in which versions: in the version of the Minister of Finance or in the President of the Eurogroup? In the end, should we conclude that the government forecast is a deficit of 0, 2 % announced or 0, 5 % hidden? What are we staying on? Is this another one of Dr. Centeno's mutual perceptions? The Portuguese have the right to know. [[PSD applause.]] But in this budget, the attempt to deceive the Portuguese is not left here. You can see the mess around the early reforms. On the one hand, the Government claims that it will facilitate early access to pensions, but on the other hand the new rules laid down in the Budget make people even more penalized if they want to retire early.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u445	False! False!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u446	When even the partners feel deceived by these government skills, how will the rest of the Portuguese feel? But the Left Block and the PCP are all less innocent and are as committed to this Budget as the Socialist Party. They're just as deceptive as each other! [[PSD applause.]] You can see the so loudly falling VAT of electricity. What was Fascibly sold as an effective reduction in electricity bill for Portuguese families does not, after all, pass a reduction on the price of the counter to the lower powers, which results in a reduction of at least 80 cents. This was the light in the major negotiations on the left with the Government! We are also talking about the reduced VAT rate of shows, another flag hysterically shaken by the left. It might be thought that this is a good measure, but after all, what the government wants is to value infrastructure rather than access to culture. Otherwise, the reduction in VAT would apply to all shows, regardless of where they occur. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] The same can be said of the reduction in the price of social passes, which mainly benefits people living in the large metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto and which also does not solve the fundamental problem of public transport. If we agree that everyone gains from the promotion of public transport, it is already impossible to accept that incentive must be supported by all Portuguese throughout the national territory. And why is it useful to encourage the use of public transport with cheaper social passes if the State then fails in a loud manner in the worst service it provides? With the state in which our railway, with cut lines, times and frequencies, lack of circulating material, lack of security and maintenance, were never so many complaints from users and the protests and strikes of professionals. I could still talk about the promise of the new hospitals that the government says it will build; indeed, three years ago it has always announced the same ones. We can also talk about the new pediatric wing of the hospital of São João, which, in a deputised manner, Mr. Prime Minister suggests that it is practically resolved with this Budget, but that Mrs. Minister of Health lies, saying that she does not even know when her contest will be launched. Just as I could say about the increase in the health budget that will actually increase significantly less than the general average of the State budget for 2019. Or, moreover, refer to the civil protection rate, which, following an exemplary civic movement, was considered by the illegal courts, but which the Government is reluctant to impose on all the citizens of the country. A Budget like this, with all these characteristics I have mentioned, has a name: it is a Fake Budget, it is a False Budget! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and BE protests.]] It is an ambush, an achievement and, in good Portuguese, an adrabice! And let us not forget that if this budget exists, and exists in this way, it was because the Prime Minister of this government, Dr. António Costa, who seems to want to go through the raindrops in this discussion, gave his consent and political support. In addition to what is in the Budget and which, in short, I have already listed, it is also necessary to say what is not and what should be. For example, it is not a sustainable economic development strategy for Portugal. The government's ambition in this area is zero and is limited to going to the international wind race. This year, 20 countries in the European Union are growing more than we, among them Greece, Spain and Ireland. We are diverging about the countries with which we want to compete in Europe. We are moving away from Spain, which grows twice as much, paying less taxes, with cheaper fuels and with better wages. Why? Will they be better than us? They're not! It's the government's problem! [[PSD applause.]] Nor is this Budget the investment that the country needs, after three years in which the reduction of public investment has reached minimums of time. It is also not in this budget that the so-called commitment lies within, in territorial cohesion and in mitigating regional imbalances. There is not a single word on demographic and birth issues, which are the most important structural problem in the country, which is understood, because government priorities are focused where there are votes and unfortunately the interior gives less and less votes. That's the pragmatism on the left! Finally, there is no support for companies in this budget, which are the real engine of the economy. This will be more and more of the ostensibly ideological marks of this budget proposal, which proves that the management parties are increasingly similar to each other, diluting themselves into a broth of radicalization. [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The opposition parties must not submit alternative budgets. This is an exclusive obligation of the Government, since it alone holds the instruments necessary for this purpose and Parliament is responsible for its supervision. We believe the importance of the sustainability of public accounts;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u447	Look, the CDS didn't know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u448	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u449	... we believe that it is not enough to rule for the present, we have to rule for the future; we believe in a favorable setting. Unfortunately, on the other hand, all these characteristics have been lacking. I conclude by saying the following: we will not give up trying to improve what is wrong in this document and to supply, with our proposals, the many failures we have highlighted, with a sense of responsibility and a sense of truth. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Budget is a factory of illusions, manipulated by opportunistic parties, whose only focus is not Portuguese, it is not the citizen, the only focus is the electorate. [[PSD applause, stand up.]] [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u450	To conclude the final statements and also the general debate on the proposed legislation of the Great Options of the Plan for 2019 and the State Budget for 2019 and, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u451	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After almost two days of debate it will be soon approved, in general, the State Budget for 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The 2019 Budget shall be approved, with the votes of PS, the Left Block, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It will be a vote with an enlarged majority, which corresponds to the enlargement and the path that in the country this government has increasingly followed and this majority has followed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u452	Looks like he's on election campaign!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u453	The debate, in general, of the State Budget for 2019, allows us a major observation: the country has an opposition in a state of denial. The opposition insists on denying the reality of the country and the reality of the Budget. Truly, this state of denial is not something new in this Legislation. In fact, it begins when the PSD and the CDS have failed to accept a fundamental fact of parliamentary democracy: the rejection by the majority of the Members of your Programme and your Government and the clear choice by the majority of this Parliament, another programme and another government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Sometimes it seems that even today, three years later, this simple democratic normality continues to disturb the opposition parties and Members. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the truth is that there is not only another majority, another government. More important than all this exists, yes, another programme and another policy for the country. A programme that has effectively enabled the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese to be improved and restore hope to them. Having arrived here, in the fourth Budget of the State of this majority and of this Government, which the opposition continues to deny, we have indeed attended not only the debate on the State Budget for 2019, but also the different readings, different from the legislature and the fundamental options that have been taken here since the end of 2015. We are discussing the 2019 Budget is the conclusive proof that there was another! After all, there was another way and there was an alternative to the dogmas on the right more or less united. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we have come here, and that is why we are here consolidating this alternative, by consecrating what the Portuguese have been reaffirming: this is the positive, stable and sustainable alternative in which a large majority of Portuguese put their trust today. And they have no reason to doubt that confidence, they have no reason to fear that she will fail. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is the alternative that proved them that the country is better and that the Portuguese are better as well. It is the alternative that led to a more prosperous economy. It is the alternative that has led to a more just society and to renewed confidence in our collective future. The right can try to deny it, but Portugal has grown more and better with this government and with this majority. That is why confidence has reached the peaks of many years in this part. The right can try to deny, you can speak on behalf of those who understand, but the confidence of consumers, the confidence of businesses and entrepreneurs has been at the highest levels for many years, in some cases since the statistical series of the National Institute of Statistics. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The right may try to deny it, but that's the truth. The right can try to disguise, but this legislation will come to an end with more than 380 000 net jobs created. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And Fá-CL will make it grow the minimum wage and recover the collective contract. That is why hope is today more solid, hope is more consistent. The right can try to devalue, but the income of families grows, as business health grows and the strength and quality of exports. That is why the future is more sustainable and the country is fairer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u454	Where have I heard this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u455	The right tries not to speak, but the public accounts improve, fulfilling all government commitments, with the reduction of debt, with the exit of the excessive deficit procedure, with the qualification of the public debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u456	What about Socrates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u457	Everything contrary to what the right threatened, everything according to the one who was, from the beginning, our commitment to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Just remember what the various opposition leaders said in the discussions on the State budgets of 2016, 2017 and 2018. Some said they were budgets without technical and political credibility. A parliamentary leader of the CDS was convinced in 2016 that we would have to present a corrective budget in April. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u458	In 2017, he was the leader of the PSD and former Prime Minister who accused the government of failing the goals and assurance that, I quote, « The strategy designed by the government has failed ». [[PSD protests.]] In the same debate, the former Minister of Finance criticized the government's « delirious forecasts », anticipating a growthless economy and a « fictional budget », which I quote, « affected the credibility of the budget year ». [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, well in 2017, in that same year, who denied the former Minister of Finance, it was the European Union! It was in that year that Portugal left the procedure for excessive deficits, in the year when it would be fulfilling a budget without credibility! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Only that credibility is not in whom these words speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u459	What about the 60/40s? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u460	One year ago, in the debate of the 2018 Budget, a PSD Member accused the Government of « unconscious optimism » and of being « unable to protect Portuguese for the present and the future ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this 'conscious optimism' is, after all, the lowest deficit in democracy and public accounts close to budgetary balance. But the drama that marks today the discourse of the opposition is better, with little effort, if we are to reread the predictions of the motion of rejection that the right — still united, apparently — presented to the Programme of this Government. And I'm going to quote, because maybe they're forgotten. It's good to be careful. The motion to reject the PSD / CDS stated that the necessary consequences of this Government Programme would be, and I quote, « the increase in public expenditure, the deficit of the State and public debt; the decapitalisation of social security systems (...); the fall in domestic private investment, and above all foreign investment (...) ». This programme would be, and I continue to quote, 'a strategic retreat, which will lead to a longer period of stagnation and unemployment' —... [[PS and PCP rice.]] ... said the motion of rejection presented in this House by that minority! [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] But, moreover, he said that this programme would cause a "damage on the confidence and predictability" that would have been achieved. Moreover, he said the right: « (...) now wants the government led by the PS to destabilize it... » — and he referred to this capital of trust — «... in access to ideological radicalism and programmatic disorientation, similar to what happened in Greece and which unfortunately led that country to a 3. the ransom. Do not keep on seeking. ” That was the reading, that was the threat, that was the discourse of fear that the right here left. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, no, none of this happened. What happened was precisely the opposite,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u461	And who led to the first rescue in Portugal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u462	... as evidenced by the numbers of growth, external investment, employment, social security; as confirmed by external assessments and, above all, the feelings of Portuguese; as evidenced by the exit of the excessive deficit procedure;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... as evidenced by Portugal's output of excessive macroeconomic imbalances, one in 2017, another in 2018 ; as evidenced by all rating agencies' evaluations of our debt. All this was the opposite of what you said was going to happen! [[PSD protests.]] It is up to us, this majority and this government, to do the work that you have not done and to fight for Portugal so that sanctions on our accounts will not be applied, on the Community funds that you have left behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Everything is contrary to what you say! [[Continued PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. President, I don't understand nervousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u463	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u464	I've only quoted you. I've only quoted reality. Why are you nervous? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u465	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u466	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue. You're away from the damn announced... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u467	I'm asking the ladies. Members who remain calm as possible, who do not all speak at the same time and let the Minister finish his speech. Mr. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u468	Mr President, honestly, the voices of those benches do not disturb me, but I admit that they can disturb those Members and those Members who are interested in listening to my speech. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Members Pedro Alves and Bruno Vitorino.]] Without the demons announced and the impending catastrophes, the last argument of the demagogues remains to be opposed: if it has not yet happened, it will certainly happen in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] None of this is serious, none of this is convincing. This budget remains a balance between improving well-being and sustainability, between growth and distribution, the balance between generations and territories. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are aware of the difficulties and challenges. Therefore, we continue a social protection policy that does not cease to reconcile the improvement of its performance today with the construction of its sustainability for the future. As in the pension system, which shows evidence of the new time we live. Not long ago the debate on pensions had a standard: the cuts of two months' pensions for many — State budget 2012 ; the prohibition of early reforms,... [[PSD protests.]] ... decided to hide — April 2012;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u469	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u470	... the increase in the legal age of reform, carried out by the suspect — 2014 ;... [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] ... cuts in survival pensions; commitments made in 2015 to cut paid pensions in a few hundred million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u471	And who froze them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u472	Today, we are discussing the increases in pensions, but also strengthening the Stabilisation Fund and clearly improving the indicators of stability in the system. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We have dedicated to thousands of workers who started their active life as children the possibility of anticipating the age of reform without penalty. I repeat, we have come true! It's over 16 000 today. at the same time, in less than four years, we have gained 19 years in the balance of social security for the future of today's pensions and tomorrow's pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] We now propose partially decriminalizing the early reforms for those who are 60 years of age and 40 years of contributing career, for those who have begun their career as young and who are therefore more severely penalized. This without jeopardizing everyone's rights to the possibilities of anticipation which today the law allows. We will continue this journey without abdicating the greater values of a just and coherent social security system and thinking about defending today's pensions and defending tomorrow's pensions, solidarity today and solidarity among generations. Nothing less than that is our commitment and we will never move away from it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know the difficulties and challenges, so we value the reform of early childhood support. Between 2016 and 2019, more than 130 000 children from 12 to 36 months old see their family allowance multiplied by four, giving a fundamental response to a particularly critical period in the lives of young families. And this is a policy for equality, social justice and the promotion of birth [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know the difficulties and challenges, so the centrality that is given to the return programme of migrants. This is because the vast majority, I repeat, most of the hundreds of thousands of net jobs created in these three years were unable to count on the necessary dynamics of young adults between the ages of 25 and 45. And the reason is simple: these have emigrated in recent years, weakening our demographic structure, our qualifications and our well-being as a community. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u473	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u474	To those, to all who want, we must say, not only with words but with acts: we have nothing against mobility and free movement, but, if they understand it, return to your comfort zone which is also ours. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Regret to your comfort zone that is also ours! We need them! [[PSD protests.]] We are aware of the difficulties and challenges, so this Budget is one of the most important changes, a real structural reform in collective transport to make the use of our resources more effective, to combat irrational use of energy, but mainly to enable families to be better well-being and to improve their income. This is for all Portuguese and Portuguese in all territories. But attention is bad for those who criticize this policy again using, as in the recent past, the irresponsible argument of dividing Portuguese, of trying to achieve political gains with the creation of antagonisms among our citizens. This is a national problem that starts with a global problem and the answer must be given now. We know the difficulties and challenges, so the centrality that we give to innovation, scientific employment, the improvement of accessibility to education, investment in qualification, the profound renewal of a new generation of housing policies. We do not hide the difficulties, nor are we at risk. And also for that reason this is not a customer's budget. [[PSD laughter.]] This is not a customer budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a budget built for most workers who today have more employment and less unemployment, and that is how we want them to continue. It is a budget built for the majority, for all pensioners who no longer have cuts and who have passed, and continues to have increases in pensions. That's not clientele! This is the real face of the Portuguese people! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It is a Budget for the most fragile who will have more social protection, such as children or people with disabilities. And those, yes, are the majority that count. And it is for those, for them and for them, that this State Budget has been made. It is for them and for them that it will be fulfilled, in the fight against inequalities, in the fight against poverty, in the promotion of economic growth, in the promotion of more competitive companies. [[PSD protests.]] It is for them and for them that he was built and will be executed, even with all the voices of the announced disaster and every year, happily, postponed. This is a Budget of those who believe, it is a Budget for Portugal. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u475	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus come to the conclusion of the debate on the proposed legislation on the Big Options of the Plan...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u476	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u477	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u478	It is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u479	You have the floor, Mr President, but you have to explain why there is a problem with the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u480	Of course, Mr. President. It was just to ask whether the Minister who just spoke in this plenary was the same person as the Minister of Economics in 2010... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u481	Mr President, this has nothing to do with the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u482	...and that he negotiated the Memorandum of Understanding with the troika. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u483	Sir, I ask you...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u484	It was part of the bankruptcy government, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u485	Mr President, I ask you to finish, because none of this has anything to do with the conduct of the work. There is one thing that is very clear: when there are debates like this about the Budget or the Government Programme, the banks don't like to hear some speakers, and that's what I understand. I've also been there several times and I didn't like it, but that doesn't allow me to make an inquiry to the table of this kind, because everyone has to hear what they like and what they don't like. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. First, let's check the quorum using the electronic system. In the meantime, I will give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report on the entry into the Bureau of a legislative initiative. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u486	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 1024 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( Law on the Processing of Medicinal Products Assisted ), which complies with the system of confidentiality of donors under Judgment No 225 / 2018 of 24 April 2018 of the Constitutional Court, which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u487	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are already in a position to make the electronic registration. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 221 presences, to which are added those of PCP MP Antonio Filipe, PS Deputies António Gameiro and Sérgio Sousa Pinto, PSD Member Marco António Costa and CDS-PP Deputies Ilda Araújo Novo and Patrícia Fonseca, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. We shall begin by voting, in general, on the Bill No 155 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2019. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall also, in general, vote on the Proposal for a Law No 156 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2019. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The bill also goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall now proceed to Vote No 648 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — I regret the death of José Lourenço Morais da Silva. Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u488	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On the afternoon of October 5, the former federal deputy died by Bahia, José Lourenço Morais da Silva. Born in S. Martinho, Portugal, on March 5, 1933, José Lourenço moved to Salvador da Bahia at the age of 16. José Lourenço argued his first term as a state-owned Member in Bahia in November 1970 and in 1982 was elected by the PDS to the Chamber of Deputies. At the 1988 Constituent Assembly, he participated in the constituent work as a member of the Subcommission of the Judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Committee on the Organization of Powers and the Government System and the Systematization Commission. José Lourenço served as a federal deputy until 2002. Having been born in Aveiro, and emigrated to Brazil, José Lourenço reached the position of federal deputy by his State of Bahia, and was a present and active figure in Brazilian politics for decades. Friends of Portugal and the Portuguese community in Brazil, which has always supported, José Lourenço misses. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses condolences to its family, especially to its children, friends and the House of Deputies of Brazil, for the loss of a Portuguese who has always dignityed our country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u489	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u490	Look what they're voting for! Do you know that this former deputy supported the military dictatorship? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u491	We will move on to Vote No 651 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — Regret for the death of José Sarmento de Matos. Mrs Idália Serrão has the floor to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u492	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic took knowledge of the death of the historian and olysipographer José Sarmento de Matos. Born June 8, 1946, in Lisbon, José Sarmento de Matos began his academic career at the Faculty of Law, before registering in History at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, where he later specialized in History of Arts and Civil Architecture. He passed through the Directorate-General for Cultural Affairs / Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage, he was a chronicler in several national newspapers, coordinator of the Oceans Journal, of the National Commission for Discovery Commemorations, being also involved in the conception of the Expo 98, as well as in the toponymity of that area of the city. More recently, he worked in the classification of buildings and collaborated with various architecture workshops, also guiding several lectures on Lisbon buildings from various historical periods. José Sarmento de Matos published numerous articles, books and studies about the city, leaving a vast and representative work of the complexity of the heritage and architectural wealth of the capital. He dedicated most of his work to olysipography, from which he stands out, among other known works, the two volumes of the Invention of Lisbon, but also A House in Lapa, the guides Path of the East or The House Nobre de Braço de Plata. More recently, he published a site in Baixa : the Headquarters of Banco de Portugal, with Jorge Ferreira Paulo, about the location where the Museum of Money was installed, as well as the collective work Palacio Portugal da Gama / São Roque, which inaugurated the Heritage Collection, of the Mercy of Lisbon. In 2017, he was awarded the Municipal Merit Medal by the City Hall of Lisbon, whose personal delivery took place on 23 October 2018. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of José Sarmento de Matos, addressing the city of Lisbon, his family and his friends his heartfelt condolences».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u493	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote this regret vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] There is still another vote of regret, Vote No 650 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP ) — I regret the 11 fatal victims of the massacre at the Synagogue Tree of Life in Pittsburgh, USA, which will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u494	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last Saturday, October 27, at the Synagogue Tree of Life in Pittsburgh, we witnessed a serious example of anti-Semitism and an attack on the individual and religious freedoms that characterize the plural and open societies that respect human rights. The attacker, armed, entered the Eastern Pittsburgh Synagogue during a religious ceremony and opened fire, impedibly, killing 11 people — Joyce Fienberg, Richard Gottfried, Rose Mallinger, Jerry Rabinowitz, Cecil Rosenthal, his brother David, Bernice Simon, his husband Sylvan, Daniel Stein, Melvin Wax and Irving Younger — and causing multiple injuries, including four elements of the security forces who ran to stop the attacker. In the face of this terrible act of cruelty, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret and condolences to the families of the victims of the massacre in the Synagogue Tree of Life in Pittsburgh last October 27 and expresses its solidarity in the name of individual and religious freedom to the American people, the Jewish community and the American authorities."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u495	We shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on vote No 643 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE ) — Condemning the withdrawal from the United States of the Treaty on Nuclear Intermediate Scope. [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP and 1 PS (Miranda Calha) votes were rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the Greens and the PAN and with abstentions from the PCP and 1 PS (Sérgio Sousa Pinto).]] We shall proceed, with the vote on vote No 647 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Condemning by the announcement of the decision of the United States to disregard the Treaty of Nuclear Intermediate Scope. [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP and two PS (Miranda Calha and Sérgio Sousa Pinto) votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u496	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u497	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u498	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u499	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 644 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE ) — Of condemnation and regret for the murder of Jamal typhoggi. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of 1 Member of the PSD (Miguel Morgado) and 1 Member of the CDS-PP (João Rebelo).]] Let us vote vote 649 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Condemning and weighing the murder of Jamal typhoggi. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u500	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u501	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u502	Mr President, the CFP will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u503	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us vote vote 646 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CFP ) — Congratulations on the efforts made by the United Nations to resume negotiations between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Frente Polisario. The PS requested a separate vote on the two points of the vote. Let's start by voting point 1. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of 1 Member of the CDS-PP (João Rebelo).]] We shall vote on point 2. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 7 PS Members (Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Constance Urbano de Sousa, Isabel Alves Moreira, José Magalhães, Margarida Marques, Porfirio Silva, Paulo Trigo Pereira and Wanda Guimarães) and abstentions from the PS and from the CDS-PP (João Rebelo).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u504	We shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft Law No 861 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — establishes the obligation to hire 2 % of workers with functional diversity. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 701 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Strengthens the protection of animals used in circuses. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the BE and the PAN and with votes in favour of the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No 706 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — On animals in circuses. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, The Greens and the NAP and the PCP abstain.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u505	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u506	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u507	Mr President, it is only to know whether it is possible to proceed jointly with the next three votes, in general, in the overall speciality and end.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u508	I think so, Mr. Deputies. Let us then vote together. [[Pause.]] Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u509	Mr President, we agree, as long as it is assumed that the votes in the specialty correspond to the ratification of what was voted in committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u510	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u511	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u512	Mr President, I would ask you to proceed with the three separate votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u513	It's less fast, but it's clearer. Let us therefore vote separately. Let us therefore begin by voting, in general, the replacement text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on the Drafts of Law No 695 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Determines the end of use of animals in circuses, 703 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Bans the use of wild animals in circuses and establishes measures to support circuses and 705 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Determines the prohibition on the use of wild animals in the circuses by the third amendment to Decree-Law No 255 / 2009 of 24 September 2009. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP, the CDS-PP votes and the PCP abstentions and the CDS-PP (João Rebelo).]] We shall now vote on the same replacement text in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u514	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u515	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u516	Mr President, I am sorry, but now this is the assumption in plenary of the Commission's votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u517	But it's not written in the script.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u518	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u519	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u520	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but that's not the case. What we have now adopted is generally the replacement text which has been worked out in the Commission. These votes were for the construction of this replacement text, which was approved in general. The speciality vote is on this text which has now been adopted, which will have no other vote on the speciality than this one at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u521	Therefore, with due respect, it is not the taking of votes in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u522	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u523	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u524	Mr President, this replacement text was discussed and voted on in the Commission, article by article. If there is to be a vote here in the specialty of the beginning at the end, then we want to make the differentiated votes that we did because we voted against in relation to some articles, we voted in favour of others and abstained in relation to others. I don't think anyone wants that. Therefore, it is better for us to vote if we take the indexary votes cast in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u525	I'm asking the ladies. Members of the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport, especially to its President, say what he thinks about the form of voting. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u526	Mr President, I think it is reasonably irrelevant that the vote will have an impact on the same subject. But, formally, Mr. João Oliveira is right, because it is the taking of the votes that have taken place and that are the ones that have been adopted and which can now be voted on. But the material content is the same, we vote for them in the specialty or we take the assumption. A single vote can therefore be taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u527	I think it makes sense. We are now discussing, at the plenary, point to point, that it would make no sense at all. We shall then proceed to the vote on that replacement text in the speciality. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the same replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP, the CDS-PP votes and the PCP abstentions and the CDS-PP (João Rebelo).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u528	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u529	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u530	Mr President, I would like to make an oral vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u531	Mr President, it is not expected that Members without a parliamentary group will have this possibility, but as there has already been a precedent, and given the participation of the NAP in this process, I think it would be fair for you to make a quick vote. Since the votes have been closed, you have the floor for a statement of vote, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u532	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we celebrate not a victory, but an important step in defending the protection of animals. It is not a victory, because this law departs from confinement only wild animals and because the transition period is quite long. For those who have committed no crime, remaining in prison for another six years is deeply unjust. But it is a very important step because Parliament recognises today that depriving wild animals of freedom is something intrinsically cruel; it is a very important step because Parliament recognises today that it is manifestly impossible for circuses to ensure adequate physiological, mental and social requirements for animals; it is a very important step because Parliament today recognizes that larger cages, better regulation and more supervision do not solve anything; and it is a very important step because this law is the only one in the world that ensures that circus workers voluntarily surrender animals have the right to support for conversion and professional qualification. Animals in circuses are mere shadows of what they are in nature, they are puppets to whom all dignity has been removed. circus shows have a counterproductive impact on the perception of children who, rather than knowing animals naturally, are taught with the exponent of the anthropocentric model: supremacy, dominance and repression of the human species over the others. What an evolved society should pass on to children is that the intelligence that distinguishes us from the other species should not serve to subjugate them, but to protect them and care for them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u533	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u534	What we have to tell the children is that we have to learn how to care for, transforming the predator's attitude towards the gardener. There is also something else, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we, PAN, want to tell these children who live in our country. Calling Nelson Mandela right now, who taught us that everything is considered impossible until it happens, we promise that we will not give up until all cages are empty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-30.u535	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the agenda for the next plenary meeting, to be held on 26 November, at 10 a.m., consists in the debate, in the specialty, of Bill No 155 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2019 and 156 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2019. I also use it to inform the ladies and gentlemen. Members who will hold an extraordinary plenary meeting on 22 November at the Conference of Leaders on 6 November during the 15th meeting of the Solemn Conference to His Ex-Friendly the President of the Republic of Angola, João Lourenço, as part of the State visit to Portugal. The session is closed. Good afternoon to all. [[It was 18 hours and 56 minutes.]]
