ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities who, please, open the galleries to the public. The first item on today's agenda consists of a debate, marked by the CDS-PP, on the theme « tax status of the interior », under which the following drafts of law will be considered as a whole, as a whole : No 945 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthening the participation of IRS in the municipalities of the interior, ensuring its full return to the municipalities, amending Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September; No 946 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthening of expenditure deductions with education and real estate for taxpayers resident in inland territories by amending the Code of Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, No 947 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increase in the period of exemption from municipal property tax ( IMI) for urban buildings, for own and permanent housing, located in interior territories, amending the Statute of Tax Benefits, approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July ; No 948 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to the Fiscal Code for Investment, approved in Annex to Decree-Law No 162 / 2014 of 31 October, as amended by Law No 114 / 2017 of 29 December, No 949 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates a special IRS rate table for taxpayers living in interior territories, amending the Single Persons Income Tax Code, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, No 950 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Tax benefits relating to the installation of undertakings in the territories of the interior, amending the Statute for Tax Benefits, as approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July ; and No 951 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Deduction of charges with transport to taxpayers resident in inland territories by amending the Code of Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November. You have the floor to start the debate, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are all familiar with the 'problem' of the interior and low-density territories. If it is true that Portugal has, unfortunately, a gap in prosperity vis-à-vis the most developed states of the European Union, this difference is much, but even much, more marked when analyzing the levels relating to the interior. More: there is a part of Portugal that has not had the same opportunities in the last 30 years as the rest of the territory. It is worth recalling some of the data contained in the final report of the Movement for the Interior. About 60% of the resident population is in the coastal range, with an average population density around 500 inhabitants per km2. in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon live more than four million and five hundred thousand people, about 45% of the Portuguese population. That is, almost half of the Portuguese population is concentrated in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon. Between 1960 and 2016, the population living on the coast increased by 52 %. On the other hand, and in contrast, the domestic resident decreased by 37 %. on the coast there are 83% of the wealth produced, 89% of higher education students and 89% of tourist dorms. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to imagine that this completely asymmetric territorial development ensures equal opportunities for all Portuguese is simply a mirage. To think that this problem is only of those who still persist courageously in living inside or in low-density areas is a gross error. on the contrary, it is a problem of everyone and leads to the degradation of quality of life both of those who live inside and in low density territories, and of those who live on the coast. We all have an obligation to find solutions. So far, as is clear, we will all agree. In fact, rare themes will be able to bring together as many consensus as interiority or low density territories. They all agree that something needs to be done. They all agree that it is urgent to do something. But, in fact, when proposals appear on the table, many are hastening to find a thousand objections and pretexts for them not to be put into practice. in this matter, consensus has almost always been the result of pious speeches and symbolic measures which — it must be said in frontality and understood rationally — have had no effect in reality and have not succeeded in countering the abandonment of these territories. This abandonment is still taking place today, and in a particularly dramatic way. Clearly, we know that solutions are not easy. That is why it is increasingly urgent that we start. We know that solutions require money and resources. That is why they have to be thought over time and can be applied gradually and responsibly in the form. We also know that the problem has such a dimension that it is not solved by timely measures or symbolic gestures. That is why today we have a tax status, a true tax status, an integrated solution, with a wide range of proposals. It is worth recalling some basic facts of the recent past. For more than a year now, the CDS has presented its proposal in the Budget and then here in the Plenary to set up the Committee for the Development of the Internal Tax Status. We started from a very simple idea: to find an effective way to gradually mitigate the inequalities between the interior and the coast, through the articulation of different tax measures that were addressed to people, either to businesses or to investment in low density territories; to bring together people designated by the Ombudsman, who would preside over it, by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, by the National Association of Freguesias, by the parties, specialists who could, here in the Assembly of the Republic, help us to create a proposal for an internal tax status. Well, this idea of the CDS-PP has always been plummeted in this plenary. If in the speeches we always find many intentions, then, in the acts, has failed and has failed the will. [[CDS-PP applause.]] So it was a year ago — one year, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — in which practically nothing has been done. We lost a year. Let's go to the present and the proposals. We are introducing measures for companies, measures for people and measures for investment. Measures to create opportunities and real equal opportunities for people, measures to set businesses and create jobs and measures to attract investment. For a question of uniformization and security, we adopt the concept of interior that results from Portaria No 208 / 2017 in our proposals. For people, we propose a lower IRS for the interior, a differentiated and different IRS, whose value is half the applicable in the rest of the country. We accept that this measure can be planned gradually in the medium term, so we are moving, by now, with a 35 % reduction in all IRS rates for taxpayers living within our country, which will then increase, progressively and gradually, until we reach an IRS of 50 %, an IRS that is half that which is practised in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u3	The bills are wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u4	We also propose an increase in the deductions to IRS education and housing collection and that transport charges, in territories where many citizens have to travel on their own for lack of collective means of transport — one of the main costs of interiority — may be deducted from the collection. We also want to increase the return of IRS to these municipalities. Finally, we propose an increase in the exemption period of IMI (municipal property tax) from three to seven years for own and permanent housing. It is a wide range of proposals aimed at people's taxation, and we are open to their gradual application in time, both to the modulation and concrete adaptation of certain measures. What is absolutely essential for us is that the tax status for the interior includes measures aimed at people and for the IRS that are easily perceived and that actually work in the fixing and attracting of the population. We are not satisfied with mere symbolic gestures, signs and intentions. measures for companies and investment are also part of our tax status. We know that, in order for people to have quality of life, they need to find opportunities for work and growth. And this is only done with a policy that is business-friendly, investment-friendly and employment-friendly.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u5	But only companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u6	We therefore propose 10 % tax on IRC for all businesses creating employment within the Community. If we want to create jobs and opportunities, we need to have more ambition. We cannot remain for the current measure, which only works for SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) and micro-enterprises with collectable material up to €15 000, and which creates a potential savings of €56 per month for some companies. It's not enough, we have to go much further. We also propose that the Investment Contract Scheme or the tax benefits contractual to productive investment, as well as the SIFIDE (Fiscal Incentives System for Research and Enterprise Development) have more favourable conditions when investments in the interior are concerned. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the tax status of the interior we present today is comprehensive, vast and effective. It is not a set of small figurative measures, it is not just a list of measures, it is, on the contrary, a list of measures designed to make different and to make the difference. If territorial cohesion is the priority that everyone proclaims it is, the measures related to this cohesion cannot be left by mere symbolic gestures at the bottom of long lists of advertisements. If we want to change something, we can't stop meditating on what didn't work or think little adjustments will work miracles. The CDS is contributing to this debate today, as it has done in the past. We are in it as we have always been: very open, but also very determined. If we all think that it is time to really change, then it is enough to give this status an opportunity. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u7	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the Bureau registered four Mrs for clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u8	Two to two, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u9	Of course. You have the floor to ask for clarifications by Mr Jorge Gomes of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, since the beginning of the legislature, the Government and the Socialist Party have undoubtedly embraced the huge challenge of valuing the interior and territorial cohesion. We have always recognized the interior as a territory with enormous productive potential, fundamental to national development, since it is close to the Iberian market. For decades, the interior regions have suffered from depopulation, aging and, consequently, impoverishment. You who see this set of initiatives today have been involved in the government for four years, which has only aggravated inequality in the interior areas, because it has only closed, withdrawn and disinvested, and what was needed in those areas, Mrs. Members of the CDS, it was precisely the opposite. In the Bragança district, the decisions taken by the previous government, which did nothing more than isolate and delay the development of the region of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro : they interrupted the construction of the Marão Tunnel, which hindered mobility in better security conditions and reduced travel times between the interior and the coast and closed the air connection between Trás-os-Montes and Lisbon. The INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) helicopter only stays in Macedo de Cavaliers because of the agreement that has already been signed by this government, because if it had not been moved to Vila Real, when it is the Braganza district that is further away from the reference hospitals. Fortunately, today, the interior is different. It is different because it has incentives for businesses, jobs, for strengthening economic and social cohesion, to which the Government has given a special focus. To this end, it has contributed to the increase in the supply of public services of proximity, such as the activation of around 20 courts and the opening of 76 Qualifica centres, the increase of agricultural holdings, with the use of Community funds, an important component in family income, and the construction of dams for new irrigation areas. Concern about access to quality health care has also been a constant for the government and therefore there have been incentives for the mobility of doctors, enabling the opening and filling of more than 150 vacancies in interior councils. The state is now more present and closer to the population of the interior and for this was determining the opening of more than 200 citizen spaces and 17 citizen shops. in the same sense, I cannot fail to mention, with great pleasure, the newly created Secretary of the State of Valorization of the Interior, which will also have an enormous relevance in proximity to the territory and the population, which will be based in Castelo Branco, contributing to the smoothing of regional inequalities. The Socialist Party is aware that much is still to be done and that all problems are not solved, but we are sure that we are contributing to making the interior more cohesive, more competitive and more sustainable. The Socialist Party will continue its mission to promote the affirmation of the interior of the country, presenting measures that maximize its productive capacity, enhance endogenous resources and enable people and businesses to be attracted and fixed in these territories. This is why we also welcome the measures presented in the State Budget for 2019, which will greatly benefit the interior of the country and will be an indelible contribution to its recovery, growth and development. In view of everything I have said so far, I would like to leave a question to the honourable Members. Members of the CDS. During the PSD/CDS coalition government, the interior regions were severely penalized, for four years courts, schools and health units were closed and people, especially young people, emigrated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u11	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies. It has already exceeded the time agreed at the Leaders Conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u12	I'm finishing up, Madam President. In the face of everything that happened during the PSD/CDS coalition government, I ask: where was the CDS when it could make the difference, when it could promote economic and social cohesion, when it could value the interior and make it in a more developed, dynamic and sustainable territory? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u13	Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor also to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As it has been known in the last 50 years, the interior has lost 20 % of the population, while at national level it has increased by 30 %. It is also known that one third of the population, 3 million people, is concentrated in two thirds of the territory, while 7 million people are concentrated in one third of the territory. Mr Meireles is now offering us a set of proposals on the tax status of the interior. Look at the CDS. , which, together with the PSD, in the previous government, had serious responsibilities for the « interiority» that continues to fatten in the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u15	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u16	Who does not remember, Mrs Deputy, the closure of public services, namely schools, courts, railway stations, CTT stations and many others? Who does not remember, for example, the increase in moderate rates, which also reached the populations of the interior, those who suffered the most? Who does not remember the increase in human desertification, which led to the depopulation of villages, towns and cities of the most remote interior? Who does not remember, for example, the extinction of hundreds of parish churches at national level, carried out by your government? In this case too, the populations of the interior were the ones who suffered the most. Who does not remember, Mrs. Member, the imposition of tolls on the ex-SCUT by the PSD/CDS government? It is that the exemption of tolls was like a contract of solidarity with the peoples of the interior, it was a measure of positive discrimination, it was a factor of territorial cohesion, of combating regional asymmetries, social and economic asymmetries. But there too the CDS and PSD imposed tolls. Mrs Deputy, during the times that run with this government in fact, the necessary measures have not yet been implemented. And there is a need for more public investment, more infrastructure, more schools, more health services, etc. What I would like to ask the honourable Member is this: will the CDS, together with the Left Block, be willing to vote in favour of our draft resolutions which once again point to the abolition of internal tolls? [[Protests by PSD Member Manuel Frexes.]] Another question, Mrs Deputies, has to do with the extinction of the parish, which, as has already been mentioned, has caused more suffering to the populations of the interior. In fact, your Government, by the hand of Mr Relvas, has cut the rule and framework, hundreds of parishioners at national level. In this respect, I would also like to know whether the CDS will vote in favour, when it is voted here in Parliament, the reversal of this measure and the consequent restoration of the number of strawberries. In conclusion, Mrs Deputies, there is also a need to have control over the bank, to have more public services, to finance small and medium-sized enterprises in the interior, to promote policies for the interior. I would therefore also like to know whether the CDS would be willing to implement this type of policy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u17	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u18	Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking the Members of the Socialist Party and the Left Block for their questions. I begin by saying that it seems to me that, in this case, the fundamental question is to understand the following: is it possible, with small signs, with small symbolic measures and gestures, to solve the grave problem of this territorial inequality that exists in Portugal, or is it necessary another type of measure? from the point of view of the CDS, another type of measure is needed. This is the bottom line. When the Socialist Party says—and says, for example, of the change, of the location of a state secretary, of the things that come in the State budget—"it is better than nothing", it will be... what I ask is whether there is any Member who can calmly and calmly think about the matter and say that the problem of the abandonment of these territories will be halted, and that these territories will be able to attract and fix people with these measures. I doubt that any honourable Member, in his conscience, will be able to say that these measures will solve the problem. They will be very good at speeches, they serve, when there are debates of this nature, the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen have something to say,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u20	...but they don't make a real difference in people's lives. I would like to raise another question: Ladies and gentlemen, is this a priority or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u21	Is it to be serious or isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u22	When I heard the discussions about the Budget, which, in fact, your benches did in abundance, I heard about many things, of many tense moments, of many measures that some wanted and that others did not want, except none, none had to do with the inside! And that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it happens because for your benches, the interior and its problems are not a priority, but for us it is. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] That one, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, that's the difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u24	Since they are asking me — and just because they are asking me, because I think that the debate, keeping itself at this level, would be more constructive, I have to say: Mr Jorge Gomes, I always find the PS position in this debate very curious — in fact, in this and in others — because it is a party entirely concentrated in the past, but in a very local past, because the last four years of your government do not exist and, curiously, everything that has to do with the former Prime Minister Socrates does not exist either. There is, therefore, a kind of car that passed and erased this inheritance in time. So apparently from your point of view, Portugal began in 2011 — at that time the country was in a fantastic situation, there was no troika, we were not near the bankruptcy, they had not left things in the situation they left! ... — and there was a government that decided to take very difficult measures. But, Mr President, if you want to find out the causes for many of the difficult times that have happened not only on the inside but also on the coast, look into your party, because you have many former government colleagues. In fact, in today's government, many former colleagues of the former Prime Minister Socrates, who certainly know how to explain to you very much, but even very much, better than I do the causes of the problems that Mr has identified. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Margarida Balseiro Lopes.]] And, moreover, about the closest past that has happened in these territories, in a more recent past, in recent years, Mr Deputy, I think we should not talk about it. In fact, I see that the honourable Member has also deleted that statement in his speech, and perhaps not by chance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u26	As for the Left Block, which says we need more public investment, excuse me for asking: Ladies and gentlemen, who has been supporting the Government that has given the biggest shot that Portugal has ever witnessed in public investment over the past three years? Isn't that Mr. Deputy? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u27	These budgets, which included the greatest tax burden of all time and the greatest ever machadada in public investment, were voted in favour by Mr Deputy, not by my bench. I therefore suggest that, at the next meeting of your parliamentary group, make this challenge to the Members of your bench. Now, when you ask how the CDS is going to vote on this or that, I must tell you, Mr, that I have been looking for the proposals that the Left Block brought about on the inside and, look, I have found nothing! Then I went to the newspapers on the negotiations made by the Left Block on the State Budget, the moments of tension, the things that led to the negotiating table, and, Mr President, on the inside, on the territories of low density, zero! Zero over zero! Maybe, you think he gives a few votes, it's not, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen? I understand you! Open... [[Well, well!]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u28	Finally, he asked how the CDS will vote on BE's draft resolutions. The honourable Member is perhaps referring to those draft resolutions, which the Left Block has become a user and a worker in doing, in which much is recommended to the Government that you are already very tired of knowing that the Government will never fulfil, however, by continuing to count on the favourable vote of VV. Ex.A.? Are you referring to those initiatives that you basically use to deceive the Portuguese and pretend to disagree with the government, but which, in fact, continue to vote in favour, continue to make it viable, amen the government? Oh, my God! He also asked the honourable Member if he could count on the CDS to continue to deceive the Portuguese. No, sir, don't count! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u29	Before giving the floor, to request clarification, to the other Members. Members who have asked for it, I would like to announce that you are in the gallery of the diplomatic corps, with Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, His Ex-President of the Chamber of Representatives of the Kingdom of Morocco, Mr. Habib El Malki, and his delegation, for whom I warmly welcome. [[Congratulations, the PSD, the PS and the CDS-PP, standing up, the Members of the CFP and the Greens have risen.]] Let's continue with our agenda. Mr Cristóvão Crespo now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the CDS-PP for bringing this set of proposals for the enhancement of the interior. They are good contributions, because the problems continue to be solved and strengthened with this government. The policies that the Government has followed are contrary to what it affirms and proclaims. An obvious example, which we can apply to any region of the country, is that of the District of Portalegre, whose deeper knowledge gives me a very clear and obvious vision of the cuts to which they have been subject both health, education, social security or justice. The former government, despite the difficulties that have been experienced, launched and implemented investments in fundamental areas such as health, in the hospitals of Portalegre and Elvas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u31	Which ones? Oh, my God! Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u32	...in social responses or in district schools. With this government, there is not only no new investment...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u33	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u34	For example, the urgency of Portalegre hospital. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] As I said with this government, there is not only no new investment as some of those who were released are stopped and in which the quality of care provision has still been degraded. Now, in addition to the lack of new investments, there is a marked decline in public services provided. How can we trust the promises of this government when the parties that support it promote and undertake commitments that are then not honored? I remember, for example, the resolution of this House on the Pission dam in the Town Hall of Crato, which was unanimously adopted by the parties of the majority, and which is now no more than a dead letter. How can we trust a government that one of the first acts was to increase the price of fuels for all of us and also for agriculture, the main economic activity in the interior regions? How can agriculture in the regions of the interior be competitive when, for example, the agricultural gas oil in Spain oscillates around 50 cents and, in Portugal, oscillates around 1 €? How can we rely on support, based on minimals, when these same support, by definition, are aid of low value and no economic impact? Finally, how can we trust a government that has managed to discredit the most important document for the country's financial and economic policy, which is the State budget? It has succeeded in transforming the State budget into a document on which there is certainty as to the manipulation of purposes and numbers. The populations of the low-density territories have been the main victims of the lack of investment and of the seizures of this government, supported by the PS, the BE and the CFP. Does Mrs Cecilia Meireles expect a coherent response from the current majority when the action of the government has been to push the problems of the interior into the field of good intentions? Therefore, the PSD Parliamentary Group cannot but conclude that this is a lost legislation for the interior territories. The people inside are not the same. The inside people are substantially worse by the action of this government and this majority PS / BE / PCP! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u35	For a request for clarification, Mr. Carlos Matias of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I would like to clarify it and restate it as far as we are not going to compete with the CDS on the question of misleading the Portuguese, because we recognize the CDS with a complete doctorate on this subject, followed by a four-year stage, which was regrettable.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u38	Mrs Deputy, it is worrying that the state that has reached the interior of our country after profound economic and social transformations and decades of abandonment by the State. we associate economic fragility, environmental vulnerability, insufficient public services responses, population ageing and depopulation. This portrait corresponds to reality and imposes on us a deep study, rigour in diagnosis and courage in decisions. But there is another angle under which the interior is rarely seen. Generally, the interior of our country is a good place to live, with great skill for the creation of wealth and where, in many places, it is possible to enjoy a very good quality daily. It is enough to see the vitality of some cities and towns in the interior, their economic and social dynamism, to realize that the interior is not only, nor inevitably, a problem and that there are solutions. In general, the political debate lacks a positive view of the interior of our country and of the good opportunities that reside there. We should also introduce this positive thread into our speech; otherwise, the tendency will be to escape from territories where supposedly only old and poor survive and a few companies living at the expense of tax benefits and tax exemptions, which is not true. But the internal regions themselves must have an institutionalized voice, have the power to define their own development plans and their budgets and to democratically elect who will implement them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u40	Regional authorities, even in smaller countries than Portugal, are lacking. But here lies the atavistic centralism which, unfortunately, crosses various parts of this Chamber. Secondly, the economic development of the interior should be based on local realities and, above all, on local resources. In this way, it seems obvious, but we all know investments of millions of euros in nearly empty industrial parks, always waiting for such a multinational that "in a day of São Never" will come there to create hundreds of jobs. However, right there, there are little supported, or even neglected, local basic initiatives that would create jobs sustainably. The case of autochthonous races is paradigmatic. They are a unique heritage, a unique wealth of many territories of our interior. Miradden meat, for example, is one of the largest sources of wealth in the Northeast Transmountan and an example that should be replicated in other parts of the country. But it's not! And autochthonous races are ignored at the time of investing, although being a highly territorialized economic activity and with a market very receptive to what is genuine. For example, the RDP ( Rural Development Programme) designed by the CDS, and at this point maintained by the current government, does not finance the purchase of breeding animals, which makes it impossible to install farmers and young farmers in agrosilvopastor systems, so important for the management of our rural territory. Today, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it already seems consensual to the idea that the planning of rural areas, and in particular forests, is essential for their survival as a source of wealth, a space to which they can and should add many other features, of which environmental services will become paid, one day these, and inevitably.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u41	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u42	I shall conclude, Madam President. The Left Block created, and this Assembly approved, the concept of Forest Management Units (UGF) as instruments for forest management. It was a success! Now, it is essential that these UGFs be approved and strongly supported their growth and operation. Is the CDS concerned about this investment? Is it in the role of your concerns? A final word, Madam President, for the uncontrolled proliferation of eucalyptuses and acacias covering most of the areas burned in 2017. We are talking about small and very small owners already with significant damage to last year's fires and no resources for this expensive operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u43	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u44	I'm really concluding, I'm missing a sentence, Madam President. The State has to provide technical and financial support for this operation, but this does not seem to fit the role of concerns of the CDS. Your head? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u45	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u46	Mr President, I would like to thank the two questions and reiterate the following: for us, what is crucial is that there is an integrated response to counter the abandonment of the interior and low density territories. And I would like to point out again that the fundamental issue here—because I often see this discussion being held in almost an assistantist logic—what we are dealing with here is equal opportunities between all Portuguese, it is territorial equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u48	That's what we're dealing with. And we're dealing with...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u49	It's like us on the banks!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u50	Perhaps, at times, exaltation has a dynamic that is opposite to that of reason and perhaps here we are living one of these moments.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u51	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u52	What is important here, I said, is not only the creation of this equal opportunity, but also the realization that this is not only a problem of the Portuguese people who live and who courageously persist in continuing to live in these territories. It is a problem of all, it is a problem that degrades and worsens the quality of life of all, because it degrades the quality of life of those who live in territories that have less and less people but also degraded the quality of life of those who live in large metropolitan areas. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do we even want a country in which nearly half of the population is concentrated in two large metropolitan areas? Is this what we want, or do we really want to oppose it? If we do not want to, then we must give priority to policies that have serious measures—it is not to have small symbolic gestures, it is not to take small measures, it is not to say those small things that are right in speeches— which implies resources, yes, and resources are not infinite, and therefore implies a gradual application of the measures. That is why I made it clear that what we are presenting today can be applied gradually and that we are open to studying alternatives. We need the other parties to bring these alternatives and do not tell us that « there is no need for tax status, it is enough here one or two small adjustments and all the problems are solved». That's it, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we've done it in the past and it didn't go well, it didn't work. That is the fundamental point. Then, particularly with regard to the Left Block, which I saw that it gave great emphasis to this issue — which, in fact, I thank you — which asked two questions...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u53	We were the only ones!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u54	Exactly! All right! And I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u55	Don't thank me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u56	With regard to BE, I would say that I do not, however, fail to find with surprise that, in two questions, they were unable to express a final opinion on this tax status which is being discussed today. On the many questions that have been asked about the forest, I would also like to say that yes, that this issue is expensive to CDS. In addition, we have already presented here the forest management account, which the Left Block has led, and several measures for the dynamization of the forest, which the Left Block has also led. However, I would like to recall the following: the interior is not a territory where people are destined to devote themselves exclusively to agriculture and forests.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u57	But there is too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u58	You killed the public services!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u59	We believe in another vision, because the vision of equal opportunities has to imply that there is also industry in this territory, there are also services and a dynamic economy that can create jobs. If we want to make from the inside a kind of park in the territory where there is only agriculture and there are only forests, I think that we will not really be creating equal opportunities. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u60	We will continue with the interventions. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, by the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group for bringing this important issue to this debate for the country. We have a deeply fractured Portugal: a Portugal of the coast and a Portugal of the interior; a Portugal with hope and a Portugal in decline; a promising Portugal and a Portugal reducing; a Portugal congested and an abandoned Portugal. Two thirds of the national territory are threatened with depopulation, dragging with them the abandonment of land, productive activities and the loss of critical mass needed to enable projects and investments. Since the early 1980s, successive governments have implemented territorial development programmes in order to correct the asymmetries of the territory, but unfortunately none of them have been able to halt the demographic decline and the depopulation of rural areas. Today, the appreciation of the interior is a national problem, it is a problem of all Portuguese. Regional imbalances generate social injustice; desertification undermines the preservation of cultural heritage; excessive urban concentration on the coast will eventually lead to a worsening of the quality of life conditions of these same agglomerations. We are therefore faced with a matter of regime. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you could expect, there are those who like to talk mainly about the past. The past is important but the present is more important for those who live inside, and by the present it responds to the government and responds to the parties who support it. Looking at the present, it is clear to us that, with what the government has just been doing, we are not going there. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: A summary of rough and torn measures, even if well-intentioned, has never produced results worthy of that name — the statistics tell us - the people who live inside are telling us! in fact, despite all the government's « focal point », what reality shows us is that there is no more population within; there is no more employment within; there are no more businesses inside; there are no more hospitals and health centers inside; there are no more doctors and nurses inside; there is no more public investment inside.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u62	There's no memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u63	What reality shows us is the abandonment and loss of competitiveness of our forest; it is the attack on farmers with the additional tax on agricultural gas oil, which adds new taxes on that fuel; it is the increase of fuel tax, which penalises, especially the interior, where the alternative to public transport is virtually non-existent. What reality shows us is the removal of hours and the replacement of trains Intercities by regional trains; what reality shows us is the record of greater losses of students in higher education in the institutions of the interior; what reality shows us are successive requests for the resignation of doctors directors of hospitals, such as those of Tondela and Viseu, for manifest lack of human and material conditions; what reality shows us is the closure of beds in hospitals in the interior of the country, of which is the example of the hospital of Lamego ; what reality shows us is the closure of public services, most of them located inside. 22 balconies of the CTT (Correios de Portugal ) have so far been closed and can rise to six tens, and... [[PS protests.]] ... 108 agencies of the General Deposit Box, with the closure of more than 73, everything in accordance with the restructuring plan validated by the Government! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In time of fat cows,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u64	After all, we've ruled well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u65	... that the PS likes to talk so much, the government was obliged to contribute decisively to more Portugal inside and less inside Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] The interior deserved it, the interior deserves it. Ladies and gentlemen, we've all lost! And we are too small a country to continue to afford to waste the resources and opportunities that this part of our territory closes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u66	The honourable Member has a request for clarification from the Socialist Party's bench. Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor to ask your question.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u67	Mr President, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, the populations of the interior are no longer able to cope with so much demagogy. That's right! For your populations, listening to what the PSD says about the interior is very heavy. It's too heavy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the honourable Member must have stopped his watch over time, he must have forgotten to go inside for the four years he was in the government and only now he has discovered the inside and realized how badly his government has done to him. Welcome to reality! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[That's the one! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u68	But, Mr, today we have a tax package presented by the CDS-PP. Regarding this tax package, I wanted to know whether the PSD agrees that at national level Portuguese citizens have two different tables of IRS, i.e. that there are different tables of IRS for each other. I wanted to know if the PSD agrees with this.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u69	And to the migrants! Is that what you're talking about? Don't you want that for immigrants? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u70	I wanted to know whether the PSD agrees with the IMI exemptions if it agrees that municipal taxes are altered without even hearing what the municipalities think. I would like to know what the PSD has to say about this, since it has always defended the autonomy of the Portuguese municipalities. Now, on these proposals that cut funds to municipalities, not listening to them, what is your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u71	They have no opinion!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u72	But, sir, I also ask you something else. Will you agree, by any chance, with proposals that are in this tax package, presented by the CDS-PP, which has tax expenditure without the burden of saying what will be cut, what are the taxes that you want to increase? You can tell me, then, whether the PSD has abandoned the question of balanced accounts, that is, it is no longer important to know how the balance is made in the Budget? I also ask you whether you do not think that it would be much more appropriate to discuss this matter in the context of the Budget, since the CDS brings these proposals here when the Budget is currently under discussion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Furthermore, Mr President, my personal conviction is that the CDS-PP does not want to approve these proposals. It is that if I wanted to approve them I would not come to do this number, I would present them in the budget debate and discuss them in a concrete way. [[CDS-PP protests.]] I would therefore like to know what the PSD's position on this matter is. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u73	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, in reply, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u74	Mr President, Mr Fernando Anastácio, thank you for the questions you have raised. It is interesting to have a number of questions which you ask me about tax matters. I could return the questions to you by asking: "Do you agree with the additional IMI? Do you agree in personal terms — since your party naturally does — with the exemption or with the reduction of IRS by 50% for those returning to the country, of those who emigrated? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, let me tell you the following about the proposals that the CDS-PP brings us to this House: what we find on this subject, and we have always told you, is that hasty and far-reaching measures, although well-intentioned, have never produced good effects or, at least, have not produced the effects that we all want them to produce.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u75	Ah! You've already said a little thing...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u76	That's what I said at the top of that rostrum, and now I repeat it to you. And I'd still like to say what? I would like to say the following: what we think is that measures have to be in fact structural, must be radical measures and must be based, above all, on three areas or three fronts of attack: on the one hand, on tax discrimination, and, in this particular case, we must recognize that the CDS-PP proposals are a contribution in this matter, to this debate; on the deconcentration of the Public Administration and on the betting of a truly polycentric urban system, based on the medium cities and the headquarters of the municipality. In fact, it is in these three fronts of attack that it is possible to value the interior and make it attractive not only to those who live there but to those people who have left there. Mr President, I would also like to take advantage of the fact that, having not done so so explicitly, I wanted to talk about the past. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] Let me say, with respect that it is due to your bench and your ex, that it is of some political and intellectual dishonesty that you want to compare a period when the country was under financial assistance, under the yoke of the troika, without the budgetary freedom it has today. To make this comparison term, I do not think it is particularly adjusted. I even consider, with due respect, that it is an intellectual dishonesty...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u77	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u78	...and political on the part of the Socialist Party to make this speech. Moreover, because the circumstances in which we passed between 2011 and 2015 were due, no less, to two governments that were the misfortune of this country, which were the governments of the Socialist Party of Eng.o José Socrates. And since we spoke in the governments of Eng. José Socrates, from the top of that rostrum, I caused here a big burb on the bench of the Socialist Party when I spoke in the closure of public services, but I wanted to remind some Members, especially those in the front row, who were the ones who most protested, who during the Eng. José Socrates governments, and was not in our adjustment program, were closed 10 maternity — repeat, 10! — 64 permanent care services have been closed; 3448 school establishments have been closed and, as I said, during the current term of office,... [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] ...in these three years, VV. Ex.s closed 47 agencies of the General Deposit Box in 2016, 61 agencies in 2017 and plans to close more than 73 agencies within the framework of the restructuring plan of the General Deposit Box, which I repeat the VV Government. Ex. approved. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u79	We will continue with the interventions. Mrs Hortense Martins now speaks for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are debating again the issue of the interior, the need to take measures that can increase territorial and social cohesion and to contribute to making Portugal no longer a country bent on itself, with screaming inequalities and which does not value more than two thirds of its territory. How can we accept a country with serious inequalities in terms of regional development and territorial occupation, in which, on the coast, we have concentrated the vast majority of the population, employment, economic activity and wealth? Between 1960 and 2016, the population living on the coast increased by 52 % while indoors decreased by around 37 %, 5 %. But, in fact, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, words, intentions and studies are not enough, nor are there any clear measures. We need consistent measures, political will and courage, stable, short-term but also medium- and long-term measures, which do not go to the taste of governments, as has happened so many times, with damage to all, since it seems that we are always starting over again. I recall the withdrawal and elimination of measures that, in recent times, right-wing governments have abolished, such as the Tax Benefit Statute for the Interior. It was thus the elimination of positive discrimination of tolls, discounts and exemptions for residents and businesses in the interior, with the privatisation of 100 % of TTCs — and now we are witnessing, throughout the country, closures of TTC stores in the municipalities where they have a single station —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... with the Social Security Contact Centre in Castelo Branco, which the PSD/CDS governments have closed and which, in good time, this Socialist Party Government, supported by a left-wing majority, has reopened in this Legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We need courage and conviction in public policies developed in favour of a coherent and balanced country. Courage to install services in the interior, as was this case of the Contact Center, but also now with the installation of the State Secretariat for the Valuation of the Interior, which we do not allow it to be devalued. This is a serious sign of government deconcentration to a region of the interior, which is White Castle. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The interior, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't need alms, but you need to be treated fairly. The interior is also composed of centres of knowledge, universities and politics, innovation centers and creation of startups, innovative and export companies, which aim to contribute to these territories, and by resilient people,... [[Protests by PSD Member Manuel Frexes.]] ... people who face, every day, to contribute to this country that is Portugal. The Socialist Party has always fought for the implementation of more territorial cohesion, through investment in infrastructure, through measures to enhance our natural and heritage resources, through measures that make the difference, but we must do more to ensure that these measures last in time. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was always the governments of the Socialist Party that defended the interior and promoted concrete measures for the development of this territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Manuel Frexes.]] But we reject electoral opportunisms from whom everything proposes because it is in opposition, not taking care of how much it costs or even if it is feasible. After last week we had a debate on this subject, here we are again. Of course I welcome the CDS for the opportunity to talk about the inside again, but we regret it, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in the opposition only now, remember these measures. however, it can always be said that « better late than never». [[Protests by PSD Member Manuel Frexes.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the concrete proposals, I have to say that many of them have an unclear wording... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] ...and even present some confusion in the proposed systems, such as the taxable person there resident and tax household. They also propose measures, for example, with regard to the deduction of education expenditure, the wording of which is not clear, but we understand their intention. however, Mrs Cecília Meireles, the Government has recently approved two measures, within IRS, which really aim at a deduction to the collection in relation to students who are fixed inside. I would also like to point out that we are currently in full debate about the budgetary procedure and, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, Mrs and Mrs Meireles. Members, in this Budget we have many domestic measures, such as the Investment Support Tax Scheme, which increases from current 10 million to 15 million euros the investment limit for deduction of the collection of IRC (tax on the income of the public) from 25 % of the relevant applications. I would also like to refer to measures that create jobs and allow people to be fixed, such as the case of the Portugal 2020 incentive system, whose budget for projects inside is EUR 1700 million, as Prime Minister António Costa said very well on the route he made this week on the interior, in Vila Velha de Rodão, in the Guarda and in them. I conclude by saying that the PS is, in fact, committed to transforming this land of opportunity, which is the interior, into Portugal in full right. We'll work on it, and we'll expect the same from this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u81	Mrs Deputy has a request for clarification of the CDS-PP. Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor to ask your question.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Hortense Martins, I would like to begin by agreeing with you on one thing: not everything is wrong inside and what is right, or what can be pointed out as positive, is not due so much to the policies or the quality of the policies of successive governments so far, but to the resilience and resistance of the people who live inside. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u83	That is why the CDS does here what many others have asked for, for example, former Socialist Minister Jorge Coelho, Miguel Cadilhe and a group of experts, who asked for radical and courageous measures for the interior. The CDS proposals would not call « radical », they would call « sensible », « necessary », although courageous. This is important to discuss here, because if we are going to go along the same path and repeat measures that have been taken so far, with degree changes, either in the tax system for the interior or in the increases, the result will be exactly the same. As Mrs Depute well identified, from 1960 to 2016, these measures resulted in an increase of more than 52 % of the population on the coast and a decrease of 37 % of the population on the inland, i.e. they proved not sufficient. So, what the CDS asks today in this House is that the parties say how far they are willing to go. Do the parties want to respond positively to the challenges of the interior or, once again, do they want to make a nice speech and, in the end, we will remain exactly the same? This is what the Socialist Party has done. They notice in the following circumstances: whenever there is degradation in public services, degradation is worse inside; whenever the government fails, as happened in the fires or in the disaster of a week ago, it is the interior that pays—only in Soure, it was more than six days without electricity, Mrs. Whenever there are problems in the urgency of a hospital, when there are problems in a school, when there are problems in justice, the inside usually leaves without that service. So once and for all, we have to look inside with courage. In relation to domestic companies, exactly the same thing happens: logistics is a difficulty; electricity and production costs are a problem; skilled labour is a problem; distance from decision-making centres is another problem; communications are even more a problem. There are many regions, particularly in your district, where it is easier to use pigeon mail than broadband, because it is much faster. Therefore, this does not go there with palliative measures, such as those presented by the Socialist Party. Mrs. Member, the current Prime Minister has promised to abolish tolls in A23 and A24. Question : Abolished? It came with a reduction for freight vehicles, only and only, but on the other hand, imposed on all Portuguese, including those in the interior, the payment of a supplement to the ISP (tax on oil and energy products). For example, let us look at the Environmental Fund or the rate of water resources ( HRT ). Resources are generated inside, but where does the Environmental Fund go? Go to public transport from Lisbon and Porto, mainly to help with mobility in Porto and Lisbon. I do not want to make a speech from the interior versus Porto and Lisbon, what I want is balanced measures and that, for example, the right to social passes to Lisbon and Porto is extended to the interior, where currently there is not even transport. I would also like to say that, Madam Commissioner, the 2020 railway is at 5 % of its implementation. The honourable Member will say: « Good, but in White Castle, in Covilhã and Guarda there is already a work done! Yes! And, as for the connection between the Lower Beira Line and the High Beira Line, is there work done? And, on the Douro Line, there is a work done or Portugal ended up losing funds, questioning the Douro Line? Oh, my God! What is made of the Aveiro-Salamanca connection, which, according to the study of the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal), is important not only for the economy of the interior but, essentially, for the country? Oh, my God! There is not a single point in the Budget for that. Mrs Deputy, I end with this question: with regard to the connection of business areas to major road routes, that the Government has come to say that it was the last step to help businesses in the interior, taking out the last two announcements made this week, what is on the ground and what is being completed, given that your promise was the one that would have been completed in 2017? Say there, to understand how this government fails, how this government deceives, how this government comes with a hand full of nothing inside. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u84	The Bureau also admitted the inclusion of Mr Luís Leite Ramos, to request clarification from Mrs Hortense Martins, who will reply together to the two Mrs Hortense Martins. Ladies and gentlemen. You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Hortense Martins, I have listened very carefully to your speech — I dare - even say that it was not an intervention, it was another exercise of electoral propaganda -... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u86	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u87	... and I noted, in particular, the virtues, the beauties, the miracles that Mrs. Deputies finds in the Budget for 2019, with regard to the interior. Nothing new, then, Mrs. Deputy! For three years we have heard, without surprise, this palavrosous firehouse and these pious speeches about the interior and we are accustomed, above all, to these burdens of nothing, wrapped in pink satin. But let's go to the facts and numbers, Mrs. I refer to two figures, in particular, which in any way categorically break down their in-house bankruptcy: your government, your government, promises to give 40 million euros to businesses that want to settle inside; but the same government will give 82 million euros – 82 million euros, Mrs Deputy, more than twice as much! — for urban transport in Porto and Lisbon, on the basis of an environmental fund which should be shared throughout the country. These two numbers are indisputable and show us exactly what your conception and vision is about territorial cohesion. In fact, I think it was the number relating to the transports of port and Lisbon that Minister Centeno wanted to mention, when he said that the Budget for 2019 was dressed in Prada — Prada is dressed in the budget for the coast, because very little reaches the interior. Madam Member, my question is very simple and it is in the sense of knowing whether the honourable Member and her parliamentary group are available to reinforce the tax benefits to the interior in a value at least equal to that which your Government, your Government, will give to urban transport in Porto and Lisbon... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u88	...or if the coast and the metropolitan areas will continue to dress Prada, while we inside, inside, inside, inside, we will continue to dress, in budgetary terms, with your traditional brand roscofe. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u89	In reply, Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Hélder Amaral and Mr Luís Leite Ramos, I thank you for your questions. Mr Hélder Amaral, in fact, we seem to agree on the diagnosis but not on the evaluation of the performance of the previous governments, and I think that both the House and the population have been aware of it for a long time. It is only natural that Mr Hélder Amaral and Mr Luís Leite Ramos try to devalue the measures of the Socialist Party for the development of the interior. [[PSD member Protests António Topa.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not worth it, because people know reality well. Mr. Luís Leite Ramos, people know that the Marão Tunnel is wearing Prada! It was the Government of the Socialist Party that did it, in good time,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and the people thank, because it was done to serve them, something your government has never been able to do. [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Leite Ramos.]] Mr. Hélder Amaral, in fact, concerning the railway, we have the 2020 railway plan. And what did your governments have? Nothing! Absolutely nothing, only the impoverishment of the Portuguese. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] As far as the infrastructures are concerned — and I should like to say — that we have investments in the Low Coast Line of 80 million, with the Covilhã-Guarda connection, and the High Coast Line of...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u91	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u92	... 600 million, where it is also being built and will have connection to the Lower Beira Line, to connect to Europe. at the end of these links, you will have to thank the Socialist Party and this left-wing majority, because again this government will conclude an essential infrastructure for the interior and the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u93	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today a set of draft tax laws, allegedly aiming at the development of the interior regions of the country. This is the same CDS that, in the recent past, in the government, crushed Portuguese and small companies with taxes. This is the same CDS that led to a brutal increase in IRS, also affecting the taxpayers of the interior. This is the same CDS which, due to the re-evaluation of urban buildings, brutally increased the IMI, also affecting the taxpayers of the interior. This is the same CDS which increased electricity and gas VAT from 6 % to 23 %, also affecting consumers and domestic companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u95	Now you're down? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u96	This is the same CDS that increased the VAT of restoration, also affecting interior restoration establishments.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u97	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u98	This is the same CDS that wanted to increase the PEC (special payment on account) by 75 %, which would also affect micro and small businesses in the interior. This is the same CDS that aggravated all excise duties, also affecting Portuguese living and working within the country. in government, the CDS, hand-held with the PSD, imposed measures that led to the depopulation and desertification of the interior. Now, in the opposition, the CDS weeps "crocodile tears" to try to make you forget your evils. The tax proposals that the CDS brings to the debate today are therefore a blatant and demagogic whitening operation that the CFP rejects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u101	Let us look in more detail at the CDS proposals. We begin with the proposal to reduce IRS rates for domestic taxpayers. The CDS proposes that all rates be reduced by 35 %. The CFP understands that any relief at IRS should be addressed to taxpayers with lower incomes or intermediate incomes, but not to taxpayers with very high incomes. Indeed, how is it justified that an internal taxpayer with a taxable income of €150 000 could have a tax reduction of €22 000, which corresponds to a reduction in the effective rate of IRS from 42 % to 27 %? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u103	in reality, the CDS, the pretext of the development of the interior of the country, which aims to achieve its old goal of reducing taxes to the richest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u105	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u106	If such a proposal were approved, taxpayers with very high incomes, in view of a reduction in IRS of tens of thousands of euros, would not take long to declare residence in their inheritances and farms within the country, only for tax purposes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u107	Yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u108	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u109	... stealing the payment of the taxes due and depriving the State of tax revenue necessary to ensure its social functions. The objective of reducing taxes on the richest is also seen in the CDS proposal on the deduction of expenditure on education and housing. In fact, most of these deductions are made at higher income levels, so they would be the contributors of these steps to benefit the most. At the headquarters of IRS, the CDS presents a proposal that has very strange contours. The CDS proposes the creation of a new deduction for collection, relating to transport costs, establishing that this deduction corresponds to 100 % of the expenditure on fuel, transport tickets and toll rates. We compare this situation with that of health expenditure, where the deduction corresponds to 15 % of the value borne. We must therefore conclude that for the CDS it is acceptable that an internal taxpayer who buys a medicine can only deduct 15 % of that expenditure, but can already deduct 100 % of the expenditure on fuel from his car.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u111	This, at least, squeaks the weirdo! On the other hand, we note that while there is a maximum limit of €1000 in health expenditure deductions for transport, the CDS does not set any limit. Let's go to IRC now. Also here, the CDS pursues its old goal of further reducing taxes for large companies. Currently, the Tax Benefit Statute states that, for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the interior, an IRC rate of 12, 5 % is applicable for the first 15 000 € of collectable material. The CDS reduces the rate to 10 % and at the same time extends the benefit to large companies. But there is a problem: the ceiling of €15 000 is absurd for large companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u113	The CDS solves this problem promptly, eliminating the roof. This means that large companies will pay a tax of 10 % on all their profits. This is an unacceptable proposal, which the CFP rejects vehemently.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u115	The CDS also presents a three to seven year extension proposal for the IMI exemption period for urban buildings located within the country. Since the IMI is a municipal recipe, what the CDS is really proposing is the reduction in the revenue of the municipalities of the interior. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS proposals deepen tax injustice and injustice, favour large businesses and taxpayers with very high incomes, some of them have serious gaps that open the door to tax election, one of them is a ruinous and another has technical errors. In short, the CDS proposals have no point where it hangs! [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u116	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Bureau does not register entries for requests for clarification to Mr Paulo Sá, we will continue with the speeches. You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia for the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Cecilia Meireles came here to make a little cry to the plenary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u118	I don't cry, Mrs. Deputy! That's with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u119	...saying that the measures known to be inside are all symbolic, very symbolic gestures. It has even come to characterize them as « small things ». I am going to give an example of these « small things», from the perspective of the CDS and Mrs Cecilia Meireles, which has to do with a struggle which the Greens have undertaken in this legislature, and in the past we have also come to undertake it, but the previous government has completely ignored the claim of the Greens, which would accurately translate the claim of the populations, which is the replacement of daily passenger transport in the East Line. It is that daily passenger transport with which the PSD/CDS Government has ended, completely ignoring the mobility needs of populations, particularly the Portalegre region, and thus eliminating a part of the development potential of this region. Mrs Deputy, speak with the Polytechnic Institute of Portalegre or with many of the companies of Portalegre to understand the disorder that was created with the closure of this daily transport. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, we know that for you it is a small little thing but for the populations of Portalegre, which are served by the East Line, this was a great achievement of your right to mobility and transport. Now, Mrs. Member, do you understand the difference between these political options?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u120	No, I don't understand, because I don't have Mrs. Deputy's intellect! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u121	Maybe he doesn't understand, but the people understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u122	Sure! And now they're all fantastic! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u123	But the honourable Member still has the floor to say in the rostrum, and in view of this example I have mentioned — and I could have mentioned many others, because there have been several railway lines closed by the previous government — that the lack of public transport is one of the main costs of interiority. O honourable Member, what a waste! What a landslide and what a disembarkation! The honourable Member, in effect, must not forget what happened to the previous government. The CDS would like, and also the PSD, to have a short memory and not to remember, that we have made a blackout about everything that has happened, that we do not remember the numerous schools that have been closed, the numerous health centers that have been closed, the posts of the GNR, the courts and so many other public services. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] They have liquidated the potential for development and population fixation in areas where these public services have been closed! They've gone too far, so many fries! And, in particular, what have you achieved with that? They have removed the decision-making power closest to the populations, territories themselves and the populations themselves. This has made life difficult for a lot of people, Your Honor! Don't you remember? They privatize the CTTs and today, with the closure of services and counters, we are having the concrete consequences of the one that was a clear option of the PSD/CDS government. But the gentlemen. Members to make themselves victims, as we cannot forget the past, say: "Ah, but we were in a very difficult situation, because we had the troika here, the troika told us to do things"... And you, say to yourself in passing, would do it willingly, they would do it very gladly. But maybe it's not bad we don't forget that the troika, apparently, went away in May 2014. And from then on, what did you guys do? Did you say anything? Nothing! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They further deepened the closure of services, the liquidation of the development potential of the interior of the country. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u124	The former Prime Minister made it very clear, even after the troika left, that wages would no longer be what they had been in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u125	And they didn't come back!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u126	The taxes were to continue. Speaking of taxes, I still want to say the following: the great battle of the CDS and the PSD was to descend gradually, and brutally, the IRC for the big companies. That was the tax reduction plan that you had for past legislation and for this legislation and years after that. This was your big plan. See the difference between us: what have the Greens proposed, already in this Parliament, here in the Assembly of the Republic? Reduction of IRC for micro, small and medium-sized companies installed within the country. You understand the difference, don't you, Your Honor? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u127	I don't know! Please make a request for clarification that I answered you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u128	Now, with the proposals put forward here, what does the CDS intend to do? Take, in fact, as has already been said, your great old dream,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u129	My great dream was that the honourable Member had asked me for clarification!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u130	... that it is not in practice in this Parliament : to go down the IRC to the big companies. It's obvious! This is the great dream of the CDS, and also of the PSD, say to pass, do not feel discriminated, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. at the level of the IRS, your great dream, which also now seeks to undertake, through these proposals, is to descend the IRS...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u131	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u132	...for those who have more income. That is indeed your great dream and you read this "dream" as your effective ideology. I shall finish, Madam President, not before remembering any other form of liquidation or, indeed, weakening of the interior of the country than the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP have undertaken, with a law that Mrs Cristas Mrs Assumption should remember very well, because it was her author, who was the law of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u133	I was missing! What a lack of imagination!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u134	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u135	Yes, they have greatly weakened our rural world and our forest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u136	Mrs. Members, there are no entries for requests for clarification to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia. Mr Duarte Alves, from the CFP, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Under the designation « tax status of the interior », the CDS today brings to Parliament a set of bills aimed, essentially, at bringing tax benefits to the interior, as if the problems of the interior were solved in this way. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we were in Seia this Monday in the Guard District. Yes, because one year after the fires the CFP was there again to assess the situation and the measures that were taken or not. We meet with farmers, beekeepers, autarchs and, in the many issues that have been raised, no one has come to ask for tax benefits for the inside. What the people asked for was, for example, that the works on the national road No 230 ( EN230 ) do not stay in half, as it is in the project, and that, with only 9 km more works, the connection between Coimbra and Covilhã complements, connecting, by that road, the Beira Alta à Beira Baixa and the district of Coimbra. What we heard was farmers and beekeepers said they received support to compensate for the fires, but they were very insufficient for the damage they had.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u138	And whose fault is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u139	What we have heard was the President of the Freguesia Board of Vide report that, over a year, there are still several villages without telephone and internet, which even calls into question rural tourism projects that are approved but which, without communications, cannot go forward. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What we heard, too, was the revolt of the populations with the closures of mail stations that are happening because the PSD/CDS government privatized the CTTs. Still today, there was a demonstration in Figueira de Castelo Rodrigo against the closure of the CTTs, due to the privatization that you did. Mrs. Members, workers, small businessmen, farmers, the interior population do not want to pay less taxes than the rest of the Portuguese, what they want is to see the return of their taxes. They want quality public services, accessibility in conditions... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u140	... and, above all, public investment that allows to stimulate private investment as well as develop the local economy. It is extraordinary that the CDS comes to say: « We, who cut into the services of the Ministry of Agriculture, who have closed your schools, your courts, your health centers, who have privatized the CTTs, now leading to the closure of post stations, we, who have kept the tolls in the SCUTs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u141	«We, what have we kept»... And you did what? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u142	... we have the solution: take tax benefits there! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Members, what the interior needs is public investment, infrastructure, less energy and transport costs, a strategy to support the productive and employment sectors with rights. That's where the PCP will continue to intervene! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u143	The Bureau also does not record entries for requests for clarification to Mr Duarte Alves. We shall therefore proceed with intervention from the Left Block, for which Mr Pedro Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let's get to the point. The CDS wanted to anticipate a debate which is characteristically budgetary before the Budget. There must be something to explain this attitude of the CDS, because from our point of view, « does not give the boot with the perishant». This means that the CDS, with these proposals, is not compatible with the criticisms it has made to Budget, expenditure and electoralism. These, yes, are measures that have no meaning and for this reason the CDS wanted to anticipate them for the budgetary debate. So, what is the CDS response to the internal problems? The CDS says: « Well, we will now have an integrated response to the interior». And what is the integrated response? It's a set of tax benefits! That's not it! We were expecting investment in rail, investment in the inland transport network, investment in the National Health Service, investment in public school, because that is why the interior needs, but not, the CDS sums up all of the tax benefits. Look at that! A party that was part of a government that revoked the tax benefits of incentives to SMEs that settled inside in 2012 is now saying that the integrated response is tax benefits. I mean, he retired in 2012, and now he says that's the solution. The justification presented is that at that time there was a troika. Well, but this only justifies the CDS policy more because it considers that the solution to the problems of the interior is the impoverishment of the interior, it is the impoverishment of the interior families, it is the impoverishment of the inside investment. In fact, these CDS proposals make no sense! In the absence of investment proposals, the CDS treats the interior as if it were a kind of marginal region where, in order to solve the problems, a kind of tax offshore is installed, disguised, for the richest. This is the solution the CDS wants for the interior regions, a kind of tax offshore for the richest. Obviously, this is no solution to the development of the interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u145	And what is your way?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u146	We need a redistributive policy, not to favour large businesses and the richest ones in these regions. With this CDS solution, instead of companies and jobs, what would we have? We would have a kind of group of representation offices, with half a dozen employees representing all those companies that were afflicted and who wanted to get these tax benefits. This is not really the solution! It is a achievement that the CDS presents to us inside. After all, what wealth would this bring to the inside? After all, what jobs would these measures bring to the inside? After all, what social criteria do they have these CDS measures? from our point of view, the path is not this, the path is inverse to this, it is to favor the local conditions of those regions, develop them, support them, develop public investment, develop the public services of these regions. This is, in fact, the way, and not the one that was also favoured by the PSD. In fact, when we talk about closing CTT stations here, it seems that the PSD has nothing to do with it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u147	And no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u148	... that it was not the privatisation of TTCs that gave rise to this situation. The successive closure of mail stations is in fact moving away from a public service essential to the people and is the example of the right-wing policy on the inside. [[PSD protests.]] The only criterion that is being implemented by that company privatized by the right...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u149	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u150	I will now finish, Madam President. As I said, the only criterion that is being implemented by that right- privatized company is the criterion of profit, the economic criterion and the deprotection of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u151	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u152	I will finish, Madam President. I would like to give just one example of the recent announcement of another closure of a CTT station: the only post station that exists in Terras de Bouro, a city in the interior with more than 7000 inhabitants, will be closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u153	We know!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u154	Actually, I was hoping the CDS and PSD would have a self-critical position in this Chamber and they would say it's necessary to reverse...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u155	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u156	... the privatization of TTCs, but none of that was done. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u157	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue with the speeches. Mr Nuno Serra was a member of the PSD, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I must tell Mr. Member of the Left Block that for the PSD the issue of interiority is, above all, to build comprehensive, inclusive public policies that seek equity in opportunities. And it must be policies that guarantee the competitiveness of all regions, regardless of their distance to the coast. To achieve this true territorial cohesion, which is what we all want, is possible only when the State assumes that one of the priorities of public investment must be to create competitive conditions so that everyone has the same opportunities to realize themselves as people, as entrepreneurs, regardless of the kilometres to which they are from Lisbon. The honourable Member has been next to a government, has supported a government which has had a miserable benefit with regard to public investment in Portugal. In addition, in 2016, the lowest public investment has been registered since 1995. Where is the Left Block response to the lack of public investment? Mr President, when I heard you speak, I even thought the Left Block was the party that most proposals had put forward for the development of the interior. Do you remember your position whenever you voted for the Socialist Party's budgets and supported the government's low investment in Portugal? For three years, you preferred to captivate money instead of giving money to the inside. Mr President, I remember — I already know that this year will be excellent with regard to public investment! — that public investment cannot be made only in years of elections. In addition, it is also necessary to remind the Socialist Party and the Left Block that the interior of Portugal has also lived here in these three years, not only will it live next year, which is the year of elections! In order to take on a real territorial cohesion policy, the State must effectively promote benefits for the inhabitants and businesses located in low-density territories, in order to avoid the abandonment of land and relocation to urban centres. There is a need to create public policies that guarantee acceptable living conditions for the inhabitants of these regions. Mr Deputy, during this year, there were regions in Portugal that were at risk of having no water for people to drink. Where are the left block proposals? Where is the concern of the Left Block? Another example is the exploitation of national production in both agricultural and industrial terms. Where are the left block proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u159	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u160	Unfortunately, this government and this majority have contributed to making life difficult for populations and businesses located outside the coast. Mr President, what example does it set when it supports a government that prefers to lower the price of social passes in Lisbon and Porto but, on the other hand, to exacerbate the tax on fuels? It well knows that the value of fuels is essential for mobility outside large urban centres. I ask you, Mr President, what are the proposals that the Left Block is going to put forward in this Budget to dynamize, yes sir, and support a new life inside. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u161	The Bureau shall not register any entries for clarification. Mr Pedro do Carmo, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS-PP proposals that aim to create a tax statute for the interior even sound good,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u163	... but, after we've analyzed, we've checked this, which only sounds good, because it's a mix of avulsive proposals. They are urban recommendations of those who do not know, do not live, do not know what the interior is,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u164	...who thinks it is giving small tax benefits to those who reside there that alters the course of the interior of the country. Of course they didn't speak to the autarchs, nor to the people who live there. Otherwise, you know what they would have said? They would have said: “Now? Now, are they coming up with proposals after they helped kill the inside when they were government? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Yes, because they helped! Because when they ruled and privatized the CTTs, which are closing stations throughout the country today, they increased the costs of interiority. Yes, because when they ruled and increased the rate of VAT in restoration, they led to the bankruptcy of hundreds of businesses and to the unemployment of thousands of workers living inside. [[Protests by PSD MP Nuno Serra.]] Yes, yes! And many other examples I could give of who said I wanted to go beyond the troika. [[PSD protests.]] Now comes the CDS-PP, like Pilates, « wash your hands » saying that you were not part of the previous government, together with the PSD, and present a tax package for the inside. It is a real act of contrition! No, no, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! They are not right about the future, nor are they in tune with the future. They continue to mark step by step and with the changed step, in the Lost Steps! Why? Because, sirs. Members, this government is resuscitating the interior and that is why it created the State Secretary for the Valorization of the Interior, so it was approved at the last Council of Ministers an investment capture programme for the interior, with actions to monitor projects for the interior territories. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u165	Why? Because with support for structural projects it is that people are fixed inside! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for example, I quote the reopening of the Aljustrel mine by the former Socialist Government, which led to the fact that in the last year this council has had an increase in the population as a result of the increase in birth, because people have been able to have stability and have not needed little benefit. That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u167	Or the Council of Ministers for Tax Benefits to Somincor which operates in Castro Verde, thus ensuring the increase in employment and the sustainability of this project until 2027. That's how people look! [[PSD protests.]] In other words, good public investment linked with the authorities and with the inter-municipal communities led to the net creation of jobs. This, yes, is the way! This is an example of the fact that this week the Beja Authority has signed a protocol with private investors in the agri-food sector that can reach EUR 40 million, creating more than two hundred jobs. The development of the interior is a national design, with concrete actions and not with bold proposals, as presented by the CDS, and without weighting. It is time to express the social value of the interior with concrete, larger or smaller proposals but in the same sense, that is, in the sense of people and territories. That's what we're doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u168	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There were several lessons we could and should have learned with Pedrogão; however, we should not have learned so much, since, four months later, it happened exactly the same, with loss of human lives, heritage and forest. However, apparently in a lesson all parties should agree: with the need to safeguard the interior and to combat depopulation. I am saying again: apparently, all parties should agree, but in reality, since then, the government, practically, has done nothing rigorously. That is why, with some surprise, we heard in May this year that there would be a measure to help institutions of higher education in the interior of the country, which was due to the reduction of 5 % of vacancies in Lisbon and Porto. It seemed strange to us, since this is not done either by decree or by artificial means. And just as the reserves that the PSD, at the time, also saved the CCISP (Coordinating Council of the Higher Institutes Polytechnics ) and the students, although they had not been heard, expressed the view that this measure would not cause the desired effect. But we don't even need to go there, because what was proved, once again, was that given word was not honored. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u170	This is because, in fact, more than half of the vacancies that were cut in Lisbon and in Porto went precisely to the Minho, to Aveiro and to Coimbra. [[PS protests.]] We will certainly all agree that these institutions are not located in cities within the country. All the more so that this government was exactly what completely distorted the + Superior Programme, created by the previous government, confusing social action policies with territorial cohesion policies. in this case, it was demonstrated, until September proved that the vacancies were not for the institutions of the interior of the country, that the government was demagogic with the institutions of higher education and, above all, with those populations. [[PS protests.]] We now look at the State Budget for 2019 and see another demagogy exercise: the large measure of education is the increase of €200 in the deduction of education expenses in those territories. I think it is important to ask whether it would make no more sense to think about whether it is reasonable to demand and have the same rule for the opening of classes in schools, for example in Vimio, Resende or Alvaiázere, instead of applying the rules that are practised in coastal schools. This, yes, would not be an exercise of demagogy. Indeed, the interior needs proposals, needs measures, needs action, but there is one thing that certainly does not need: the cheap demagogy of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u171	For an intervention, Mr Rui Cruz, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After listening to Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, I would like to comment. The honourable Member said that after Pedrogon, the Socialist Party and the Government should have learned something and that they did nothing strictly. I think the first comment the Socialist Party should make is that the PSD has been distracted or, at least, this comment was made by those who do not know what has been done on the ground. A comment of these can only be made by those who do not leave Lisbon! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u173	The country does not end in Vila Franca de Xira, the country is much more than Lisbon. in the fire-affected territories, in addition to Pedrogão and 15 October—is recognized by those who have experienced the tragedy—, never did any Government of this country make an intervention that would allow to solve, in such a comprehensive way, the problems of people and companies. It is not that the intervention was perfect, of course it was not a perfect intervention, but those who visit and follow these territories know that this intervention is recognized by the people. Therefore, it is elementary to recognize that anyone who says nothing has been done is because he does not visit the territories. Mr Nuno Serra referred to the water problem that happened last summer. I wanted to tell you that, curiously, this problem concerns a camera led by the PSD. Therefore, this problem should be properly clarified by the PSD. [[PSD protests.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS brings here today the debate of several bills that have to do with the allocation of tax benefits to the interior. In particular, in the Viseu district, several courts were reopened and new services were created to assist citizens through the Citizen's Shop and the Citizen's Spaces. in the field of health, the hospital of Viseu will have a requalified emergency service, with more response capacity and reduction of waiting times. The contest was launched and the contractor was already selected for the execution of the work. We're waiting for you to start soon. As for the oncology centre, announced by this government in mid 2017, the projects are under way and we are waiting for their implementation next year, projects that have never been looked at, or even weighted, by the former PSD / CDS government. by providing Viseu hospital with these structural improvements, making it a reference hospital in these matters, we are promoting the interior of the country and fixing more people, because we are improving access to health care for the population living in the region. On the other hand, at the beginning of 2019, the first phase of the requalification of the Viseu-Coimbra connection of IP3 will be launched, and the Beira Alta Line will also enter the requalification process. In fact, the PSD, recently in relation to this work, after the petitions that were submitted, stood next to the solution for the IP3, but in recent days it has been criticized. We would like to see which side the PSD is, after all, in relation to the solution found by the government, a work that will cost 150 million and whose launch of the first phase will take place in the first half of next year. What are we left with: the PSD is in favour or against the solution found?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u175	In order to meet the heavy costs for citizens and businesses of the interior, the Government has recently approved the reduction in the price of tolls on the inland highways for the transport of goods, with a sharp discount on the businesses in the interior. This measure brings together others of a fiscal nature and in the form of incentives to businesses located within the Community, such as the reduction of the rates of IRC (tax on the income of legal persons) and investment support, such as the SI2E programme and the Valuarisation programme. In the framework of the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion, there is also emphasis on tax incentives within IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) for citizens who set their homes and jobs within them, as well as on students who attend higher education establishments in these regions. This, yes, is development measures for the interior and equal treatment for all citizens! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u176	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, from the PSD, once again enrolled for an intervention. So you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have now heard the speech of the Member of the Socialist Party and I must say that I necessarily have to leave Lisbon because I am from the Great Navy in Leiria district. What I told you about Pedrogão, Figueiró dos Vinhos and Castanheira de Pera, I didn't see on TV, because I was still there this weekend. I must tell you that perhaps you are very far from reality, because indeed little or nothing has been done. In fact, there are still times when the Communist Party said exactly that: "If anything had been done, would we have had the tragedy repeated four months later? If anything had been done, almost a year later, would we have the Leiria Pinhal exactly as the fire left him? If anything had been done, would we have more than 500 houses to intervene today? Do not keep on seeking. ” In fact, there was perhaps something the Socialist Party, in this case the Government, could have done: it was not negligent with fraudulent cases of reconstruction of the houses in Pedrogão. [[PSD applause.]] Maybe they could have done something there, too, and we wouldn't have seen the shameful cases we witnessed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u178	The Bureau does not record any more entries, so as usual, I will give the floor, to close the debate, to the party that called for the agenda. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mr António Filipe of the CFP was included for an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Anyone who did not know the Country and heard the interventions made by the CDS and the PSD in this debate—particularly the CDS, which is the proposing party—would be led to think that in 2015, the PSD and CDS were still in government, the interior of the country lived moments of glorious prosperity, an outbreak of development, with, finally, population increase, economic growth, opening up new public services to face the population increase that then occurred. Well, we all know that it wasn't so and that it wasn't from 2015 that created the difficult situation that goes through the interior of the country. The TTCs were not privatised yesterday, the frequencies were not extinct last week. Don't! There is much to do, and there is much to recover from the misfortune for which you have launched the interior of the country, with the right-wing policies they have carried out. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD MP Protests António Costa Silva.]] There is much to do, but the Portuguese know the consequences of your policies and, therefore, you have been removed from the country's governance and you have been able to reopen courts and recover from some of the situations that you have created. Clearly, there is much to do and we are here to propose and fight for the support of the people of the interior to reduce the regional asymmetries that you have greatly aggravated. They do not tell us that they have no responsibility in the situation that the country is going through, because you have been government and cannot apologize to the troika! They did not tell us that the PSD/CDS-PP government was a warrant, that who ruled was the troika and that the government was just doing what it was ordering. Don't! You had a political programme and the implementation of it led to an increase in regional asymmetries and forced many people from the interior to migrate to other areas — one abroad, another to the country's coast. You cannot escape your responsibility! We are here to move forward with constructive proposals, to recover from the situation that you have created, including in the State Budget. Mr President — and I shall finish — we have found that, in this debate, you were more concerned not to defend the proposals under discussion, which, as my colleague Paul Sá said, "they have no point where they stand" but, yes, with the State budget which is beginning to be discussed next week. We are already seeing that it is the State budget that brings you to sleep and that is a good thing for the debate we are going to have in the coming weeks. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u180	He's euphoric on the PCP! They're still saying: PS! PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u181	PSD doesn't even sleep anymore! Take some calmers that's happening!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u182	In the meantime, Mr Manuel Frexes wrote for an intervention on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to welcome the schedule of this initiative, in order to create a fiscal status friendly to the interior, because we believe that this is a very positive vision that fits into the strategy we have always defended, particularly when we put forward the proposal for the creation of the status of low density territories. Certainly it is not complete, as it may include other relevant tax matters, but it is a correct approach to help resolve what is perhaps the great issue affecting Portugal: the deep imbalance of our country between an increasingly impoverished, aged and abandoned interior, in contrast to two increasingly populous, concentric and rich metropolitan areas. Today, we have population densities in metropolitan areas a thousand times higher than in many interior municipalities! I come from a district, the district of Castelo Branco, which has in the ranking of depopulation the first three places and in aging the first four places, in which the ratio of elderly people range from 600 to 800 per 100 young people up to 15 years. I come from a district that in 2010 had enrolled about 30,000 students in basic and secondary education and, seven years back, has only today 20,000 students. In seven years, he lost 10,000 students, that is, one third of his students! [[PS protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, have you ever imagined that if this pace stays within 14 years, there will not be one school open in the White Castle district? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u184	Oh, what a bad augur, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u185	This dramatic picture of our country's abandonment is not exclusive to my district; it is widespread throughout the country and there are even regions of the coast that already suffer these consequences. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] I understand Mrs. Deputy's discomfort. If you shout like that, it's because I'm full of reason! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u186	In short, three quarters of the territory are in accelerated depopulation! Today, after the state has deserted the interior, it has arrived at the time of the closure of services of public interest, such as banking services, mail, insurance, transport and others. Today, we witness the closure of CTT stations at the headquarters of the municipalities, at the headquarters of our interior councils, in a generalized form, namely: Manteigas, Meda, Belmonte, Furnos de Algodres, Figueira de Castelo Rodrigo, Vila Velha de Rhodão and Vila de Rei, just to speak of the Beira Interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u187	And who privatized the CTTs? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u188	With regard to Vila de Rei, I do not resist to say in this Parliament that in this municipality will close the post office, the BCP Millenium and the Office of Professional Insertion by the end of the year. So I ask: how is this possible, without doing nothing? What country is this that we are binding to our neighbors? What is the future for about 80% of our territory? In view of this dramatic picture, we have a government that swears together its concern for the inside and that it says it wants to reverse this situation. Well, it began by creating a mission unit that was a robust failure, then transforming it into a reflorestation office following the fires of Pedrogão, to now convert it into a State Secretary to be based in Castelo Branco. Well, here I leave the challenge: if, perhaps, the creation of this Secretariat of State is not only « to see», then it ends immediately with the closure of post stations and other services of public interest at the headquarters of the municipalities of the interior! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u189	You must be a hypocrite!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u190	Because I believe it is a shame that the Post Offices of Portugal do not have at least one station in each of our councils, where they ensure postal services of proximity and quality, especially in the poorest and most disadvantaged regions, where the elderly can continue to raise the valley of their pension!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u191	We think the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u192	I would like to believe that this government body, the Secretary of State for the Valorization of the Interior, will not be the promotion of a worthlessness nor the last act of a sad, misleading and confusing piece of theater carried out by this government, which loves the stagings of the face-to-face, of the trusted conversation, of propaganda and of the tears of crocodile! [[PS protests.]] Indeed, for this government, the interior is not a priority. It was never! He has always tried to delude this issue with advertisements, audacious measures and pious intentions. For us, the interior is not to close; before, it must be a national design and a cause that everyone must unite, convene and hold accountable. We need to approve the status of low-density territories in order to fit support and protection measures to the most disadvantaged regions, which are valid and give political and legal coverage to all differentiation measures. If we had already approved the initiative presented by the PSD in this legislature, we would certainly not be regretting the numerous closures of services of public interest and we would not need to have the European Commission's blessing to treat tax differently, as is the case in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u193	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u194	Mr. President, I will finish now. We need, rather, an action plan to promote strategies for the integrated development of these regions, with deep and bold measures, combining a fiscal status friendly to the interior with investment and employment and placing on deconcentration and decentralization.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u195	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u196	The PSD will continue to fight for this great goal, for this national design, because, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for us the interior is also Portugal! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u197	To conclude the debate, Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the theme of today's agenda and debate, the CDS has chosen the interior. As the debate is about it, it is easy to establish a logical grid for the decision on the vote in each of the projects presented by the CDS here. There were three clear criteria: the importance of the issue, the quality of the proposals and the effectiveness of the proposals. On the importance of the subject, there is no divergence. There were many references here, in the various benches, to all kinds of criteria that justify that the interior is, today, probably from the point of view of public policies, the main priority in Portugal. Therefore, if the topic chosen by the CDS meets this consensus, by the first of the criteria, there is no reason why the CDS projects should not be approved. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u199	On the second criterion, the quality of the proposals, it is true that there was no unanimity there, but then we will take the reasons for criticism of those who criticized them. I would even take the greatest criticism here, expressed by Mr Paulo Sá, that he said that the proposals do not have « tip-by-side». Mr President, we will then take it to the end of each of the proposals. Does it or does it not make sense that companies that are already or that are going to be inside have better tax conditions, because of their wagering, by supporting the country's main public policy, which is the appreciation of the interior? [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u200	That's not the proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u201	This is the first tip worth picking on. Does it or does it not make sense to discriminate positively against companies that hire workers to work in the interior and which also help establish the main public policy, which we all agree is support for the interior? This is the second tip for which it's worth picking up. Does it or does it not make sense to support the municipalities of the interior, which often have strict budgets, which do not give them enough scale to have public investment policies themselves to value their territory, allowing the IMI to raise the budget of these municipalities? Does or does not this positive discrimination also make sense at the level of public authorities? Well, it does, and that's the third tip for which it's worth picking up. Does it or does it not make sense that families, whether people who are already inside or who choose to go inside, have a positive discrimination from the point of view of their income in the IRS? [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]] Certainly, those who think that returnees deserve this discrimination do not now come with technical arguments that there is no discrimination within what is discriminated against against against migrants. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, if it is worth making this positive discrimination, this is the fourth point for which it is worth picking up. If interiority is an exclusion factor, often by distance, it makes sense that, at the level of the distances these people have to travel, often within the territory of the interior itself, but also so many times, to come from the interior to the coast, they can cut these expenses also in the IRS and so, again, we support the main public policy with which we all agree? This is the fifth tip for which it's worth picking up. These proposals have many points on which it is worth picking up and going to meet what we all say, i.e. that this is the main public policy needed for the country. So, if so, what is the only reason why these proposals may not happen? For what has happened in this debate, of all parliamentary groups, by the complexes of custom, about the origin of the proposals: the proposals cannot be approved because they are from the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u202	Don't! Because they don't suck!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u203	Proposals cannot be approved because the CDS was in the former Government; proposals cannot be approved,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u204	Don't! Because they're bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u205	...because it is decreed that, in this legislature, only happens what originates in management...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u206	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u207	...and, even if it originated in management, it can only happen what the Socialist Party authorizes it to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u208	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u209	For we say: you will not have to respond to the CDS because of this arrogance; you will not have to respond to the CDS because of this insensitivity; you will not have to respond to the CDS because of this inconsequence. By this arrogance they will answer the Portuguese of the interior; by this insensitivity they will answer the Portuguese of the interior; and by this inconsequence they will answer the Portuguese of the interior. Your 'no' to the Portuguese of the interior today is a very clear sign of the total lack of capacity to respond to the main public policy that the country needs — a real appreciation of the interior. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-25.u210	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate, so we will proceed to the vote on the diplomas that have been under discussion. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 196 presences, to which the following Members are present. Members: Carlos Matias, Mariana Mortágua and Moisés Ferreira, of the Parliamentary Group of BE ; António Filipe, of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP ; Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, José Rui Cruz and Miguel Coelho, of the Parliamentary Group of the PS ; Andreia Neto, Emília Santos, Fernando Negro, Inês Domingos e Luís Marques Guedes, of the PSD Parliamentary Group ; and Álvaro Castello-Branco, Pedro Mota Soares and Telmo Correia, of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP. There are, therefore, 211 Members present, so we have the quorum to proceed to the vote. We begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 945 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthening the participation of IRS in the municipalities of the interior, ensuring its full return to the municipalities, amending Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 946 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthening of expenditure deductions with education and real estate for taxpayers resident in interior territories by amending the Code of Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 947 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increase in the period of exemption from municipal property tax ( IMI) for urban buildings, for own and permanent housing, located in interior territories, amending the Statute of Tax Benefits, approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 948 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to the Fiscal Code for Investment as annexed to Decree-Law No 162 / 2014 of 31 October 2014 as amended by Law No 114 / 2017 of 29 December 2017. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 949 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates a special IRS rate table for taxpayers living in interior territories by amending the Single Persons Income Tax Code, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] We then vote in general on Bill No. 950 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Tax benefits relating to the installation of undertakings in the territories of the interior, amending the Statute for Tax Benefits, as approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] Finally, we will generally vote on Bill No. 951 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Deduction of charges with transport to taxpayers resident in inland territories by amending the Code of Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, Friday, 26 October, at 10 a.m. the agenda consists, first, of the general discussion of the Bills Nos 835 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recognizes that compensation interest is due when undue payment of tax benefits has been based on unconstitutional or illegal standards and 1019 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecration of the obligation to pay indemnities when the collection of tax benefits has been based on unconstitutional or illegal standards ( 46 ). the amendment to the General Tax Law ). Secondly, the general debate of Bill No. 975 / XIII / 3 will be held. a ( PS ) — Promotes the establishment of an Observatory to monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child within the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth. Third, the Drafts of Law No. 976 / XIII / 3 will be generally appreciated. a ( BE) — Amend the Penal Code by strengthening the fight against domestic, sexual and minor violence ( 46. the amendment to the Penal Code), 977 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Amend the Code of Criminal Procedure by extending the possibilities for the application of preventive detention and limiting the application of the figure of the provisional suspension of proceedings ( 31 ). the amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure ), 978 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Creates Judgments of Domestic Violence, 1013 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Amends Article 41. the Act No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 strengthening the cooperation procedures of employers with workers victims of domestic violence and 1017 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter the Civil Code, creating the successive indignity of those convicted of domestic violence or ill-treatment. Fourthly, the general debate on draft Law No 237 / XIII / 1 will be held. a ( PCP ) — Approves Sea Police Organization, 238 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — National Maritime Authority, 1009 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Regulates the Right to Association of Maritime Police Personnel ( 1. the amendment to Law No 9 / 2008 of 19 February. of the fifth item on the agenda is the general discussion of Bill No. 1011 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Change Law No 56 / 2018, of 20 August, which creates the independent technical observatory for analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory, without time allocated for discussion. As a sixth item on the agenda, we have motion for a resolution No 73/ XIII/3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Mauritius on Air Services, signed in Port Louis, on 14 September 2017, also without any time allocated for discussion. in the seventh point we will generally have an assessment of the motion for a resolution No 74 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves Council Decision ( EU, Euratom ) 2018 / 994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act on the election of members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage annexed to Council Decision 76 / 787 / ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976. of the eighth point, also without time allocated for discussion, is the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2019. Finally, the vote will take place. Good night for everyone and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 16 minutes.]]
