ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities to open gallery doors to the public. The agenda for today is a political debate requested by the PS under Article 64 ( 3 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, on the economy of the sea and the maritime-port sector. To open the debate, Mr João Azevedo Castro, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u2	Mr President, Minister for the Sea and other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The economy of the sea is today considered as essential for the welfare and future prosperity of humanity, as a source of food, energy, minerals, health, leisure and transport, of which hundreds of millions depend. The maritime industry goes through a profound transition, from the considered traditional domain to the emerging activities that are reformulating it and diversifying it. The new ocean economy should consider population growth, the reduction of natural resources, the response to climate change and technological innovation. While traditional industries innovate at an accelerated pace, emerging activities attract much of the attention. We are talking about offshore wind energy, tides and waves, deep sea exploration in exceptionally aggressive environments, aquaculture, mining, cruise tourism, maritime surveillance and marine biotechnology. The long-term potential for innovation, job creation and economic growth offered by these sectors is impressive. However, economic activity is also characterized by a complex variety of risks, such as those related to ocean health, due to excessive exploitation of marine resources, pollution, increased temperatures and sea levels, acidification, as well as loss of biodiversity. Concrete the development of the potential of the sea economy begins to attract attention and rise on the international political agenda, involving numerous organizations, in an effort to meet the challenges of use, sustainable for the future. The oceans are summarized as a new frontier, a huge area of natural resources and great potential, to boost economic growth and innovation. They are increasingly recognized as indispensable in an approach to the global challenges that the planet will face in the coming decades, at the level of food security, climate change, energy supply, natural resources and even the development of medicine. Therefore, responsible and sustainable action is required in its approach. The OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) considers the contribution of oceans to employment and the global economy significant. Preliminary calculations estimate a value in the order of 1, 5 trillion dollars, in which oil and offshore gas represented a third, followed by industries such as maritime and coastal tourism, maritime equipment and the port sector. Direct employment was estimated at about 31 million jobs, with industrial fisheries as the largest employers, with more than one third of the total, and maritime and coastal tourism, with almost one quarter. Economic activity in the oceans is on the rise, driven mainly by the growth of the world's population, economic growth, trade and increased income levels. The OECD, once again in a prospective 2030 analysis, says that many ocean-based industries have a potential for growth greater than the global economy as a whole, both in terms of value added and in terms of employment generation. It is estimated, in a basic scenario, that the economy of the oceans can more than double its contribution to global aggregate value, reaching more than 3 trillion dollars and 40 million full-time jobs. It points to a particularly strong growth in marine aquaculture, offshore wind energy, fish processing, shipbuilding and ship repair as well as port activity. It looks forward to the next decades that scientific and technological advances play a crucial role, both in addressing many of the environmental challenges, and in developing economic activities in general sectors, in the discovery of new materials, engineering and underwater technology, sensors and images, satellite technology, computerization and data analysis systems, automation, robotics, biotechnology and nanotechnology. in the context of such rapid changes, challenges are seen in regulation and governance, in an increasingly multipolar world, which has found a growing difficulty in building consensus on global and even local issues, fundamental to the environment and the ocean industry. To date, the inability to deal with these pressures in an effective and timely manner is largely attributed to what has historically been a management of marine activities, sector by sector. In response to increasing pressures in recent years, we have seen a significant increase in the number of countries and regions implementing concerted strategic policy frameworks for better ocean management, including in exclusive economic areas ( EEZ ). It is important to walk towards integrated management, with long-term development prospects that promote growth and employment, ensuring international cooperation, in maritime science and technology, as a means of stimulating innovation and strengthening development — with comparative analyses of different clusters, establishing international networks for the exchange of views and experience, creating centres of excellence, incubators of innovation and the sharing of technology and knowledge between countries, at different levels of development — and strengthening integrated management of oceans using economic analysis and economic tools, establishing international platforms for the exchange of knowledge, experience and best practices and intensifying evaluation efforts. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal today has as one of the major designs to grow the economy of the sea, in a model of sustainable development, innovative and inclusive—with challenges such as the process of extension of the continental shelf or the maritime-port sector, with remarkable growth records—in fishing and aquaculture, in maritime transport, in recreation and nautical tourism, in the blue economy, in new energies, in entrepreneurship and in business development, in biotechnology and in the deep sea. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In summary, in the repositioning of the sea, as one of the main resources of the country, considering the geostrategic, as well as the Atlantic depth, conferred by Madeira and the Azores, and generating wealth and employment. It is in this context that the Socialist Party understands the present reflection here in the Assembly of the Republic. The road may be a carpenter, even « by seas never sailed before». Here's the legacy! Let's do it again! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u3	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos and Heitor Sousa. How do you intend to respond, Mr. João Castro?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u4	at the end, together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u5	Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u6	Mr President, Mr. João Castro, the PS has indeed addressed an important issue for this debate, on which, however, the Government and the Socialist Party have a brand, which is to make announcements and to say that for the year or for the next month it will be. In this regard, Mr President, I would like to talk about three very different subjects. The first one has to do with the Blue Fund. The honourable Member made a beautiful speech, in fact, almost all of us could subscribe to it, but it was not concrete. So let's talk about the Blue Fund. Mr, this instrument was created in March 2016. And we all remember that the same was the star of the Ministry of the Sea budget for 2017, with an inscription of EUR 10 million, which Mr. Minister, during 2017, reinforced with more than EUR 3 million, announcing that this instrument would have an appropriation of EUR 13 million. Now, we're in 2018, the candidatures emerged at the end of last year, there are already five opening notices, and the truth is that in 2017, the year in which there should be an execution of EUR 10 million or EUR 13 million, there was zero! We are in April 2018, Mr, and we do not know any kind of execution either. So we are facing an announcement, a star that has been announced, and the truth is, until today, we have no concrete data on the table. Another point, Mr President, is the issue of ports. And let's talk about the port of Sines. The Minister said — and he certainly knows – because he is a member of the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea — in October 2016, almost one year after he took possession, that he would move forward with negotiations with the concessionaire for the expansion of Terminal XXI. The truth is that it took almost a year (and it is not clear why one year was expected) and these negotiations started in February 2017. Over a year, the Minister has now said that she hopes that these negotiations will be concluded in June or July of this year and that there will be a concrete idea of what will be done with regard to the expansion of this terminal, which is fundamental. Now, Mr President, waiting two and a half years to realize what is going to happen with the expansion of this terminal is decisive, even because there are very important clauses that have been negotiated exclusively, and that they will embark on the new Vasco Terminal of Gama. And here I also ask the honourable Member the following: for the Vasco Terminal of Gama, will there be more advertisements and more dates? Ms. Minister said she expected the competition to be launched in 2017. The competition was launched in 2017? Don't! It was not released in 2017. The Minister now says that she hopes that the environmental impact study will be completed in May of this year so that the competition can be launched. However, the Minister, tired of making advertisements and committing dates, has already said that she cannot guarantee compliance with this date. So, Mr President, I also ask you about this: will there be more advertisements and more dates? A third issue, Mr. Deputies, has to do with the multipurpose terminal of the Barreiro. It's been a year. For a year, an environmental impact study was carried out on a location for this terminal, which was not accepted by the people of Barreiro, local agents and the Barreiro autarchs. You spent a year on this! We are now going to say: "Well, let's reformulate and create a new location", and a working group was created, which should have been done right at the beginning, to choose a location that would be accepted by everyone. And now also this great wish of the Socialist Party, of this government, is waiting for completion because one year has been lost with the choice of a location that no one wanted. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to ask you another question: the Minister and the Socialist Party said that we have to know how to'make it happen'. Indeed, « making happen » was the expression used by this Ministry. However, Mr President, what we have had is announcements of objectives and deadlines and more deadlines, but nothing to « do », nor « happen ». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u7	Mr President, I would like to get an answer on these three issues. I spoke about the Blue Fund and the ports, but I could have talked about other matters, because what we have had on the part of the Socialist Party and this government is the clear announcement of objectives, but the realization is always on the agenda. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u8	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u9	Mr President, I would like to thank the Socialist Party for bringing us here to debate and to reflect on an issue which is still at the beginning, in terms of the economic policy of the various countries, which alone constitutes a remarkable effort, in order to add to this debate at least some subjects which are not usually discussed here in the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, as we are in time to take the first steps, it was good for us to know what our path is, what our priorities are in relation to the development of the sea economy, and what are the challenges we have to face. Mr President, the first question I would like to ask you is to know what the colour of the sea economy we want to defend, which we want to favour. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I am referring, as you will already imagine, to the exploitation of marine resources, which in your speech expressly referred to as representing 30 % of the resources currently allocated to marine exploitation, in particular to oil resources. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] The oil economy, as you know, has black as a dominant color and has little to do with the blue economy you talked about and we, in Portugal, have a problem between the hands that the previous government has left us, the realization of a series of last-minute contracts for the exploitation of oil resources on our coast, which have been successively cancelled to prevent the blue economy from becoming a black economy. Mr President, I ask: exactly how do you think it is compatible to exploit an energy model based on the carbonization of the planet, based on the economy of oil, in view of what you have stated in your speech and with what we agree, which is an economy of the oceans based on sustainable resources and marine resources compatible with the sustainable development of the planet? The second question has to do with the concept of the sustainability of the sea economy, which the honourable Member has also spoken about and which the European Union itself defends. Mr President, at the moment — I believe! — to speak in sustainable development is a little like the modern version of the MFA Programme ( Armed Forces Movement ), which was held after 25 April and with which all parties agreed. If we want to talk about sustainable development that is compatible with the defence of the oceans, if that is what we want to defend, then we need to change a lot in the European Commission because the European Commission document on the multiannual, new and modern financial framework for the effective implementation of the post-2020 priorities of the European Union does not have a single reference on the economy of the sea. So, honourable Member, how do you think the blue economy can penetrate the European Union's sustainable development priorities for the next multiannual financial framework? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u10	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr. João Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u11	Mr President, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, I begin by thanking the question raised, and I am glad that he addressed the Blue Fund, especially by relating it to what the action and action of this government is, because before this government there was no Blue Fund, there was no prospect of adopting the Blue Fund, nor even a mirage of the Blue Fund we had on the horizon. [[Protests by PSD Member Pedro do Ó Ramos.]] It is therefore important to mention here, in relation to the Blue Fund, that it is a fund that mitigates the risk of those who intend to invest in a sustainable economy and in the sustainable sea with a pioneering logic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u12	We know that! And realisation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u13	Portugal is a pioneer country, including in the European context, in the implementation of the Blue Fund, because there are five open warnings and, at the level of support, more than EUR 50 million has been delivered to companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u14	No, no! You didn't hand over a toaster!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u15	It seems to me that, in an approach to what the Blue Fund is, we will be able to note with pleasure the fact that the honourable Member has focused on the subject and laments the way it has focused on it, regretting its existence, when we all think it is a virtue, an advantage and a merit of the current government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u16	There is no 1 € expenditure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u17	With regard to the port of Sines, and we had the opportunity to see the honourable Member ask this kind of question several times,... [[Protests by PSD Member Pedro do Ó Ramos.]] ... certainly, I would not agree that a work of that size and importance would be launched without its environmental impact study. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u18	There are procedures and logics that have to be followed and it is in compliance with these procedures that the government is working on, and very well! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u19	They're always late!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u20	As for the multipurpose terminal in the Barreiro, I would say that we could go back a lot in time and find many stories and many evolutions on this subject. But there is one thing that this government is doing well and which, I think, must be emphasized.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u21	But he lost a year!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u22	This government is concerned about the new terminal and the situation of logistics in the port of Lisbon and is doing so in dialogue and cooperation with the authorities, in dialogue and in cooperation with the people, and that is what it must be. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u23	Now! He lost a year!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u24	Mr. Heitor de Sousa, I accept your challenge with the question « what color of the blue economy? » To what do I reply that, obviously, it can only be blue! It is blue because, indeed, it is environmentally sustainable, based on the assumption that I tried to explain in my speech — I apologize if I could not do so with the success that I would like — which is that the use of all the resources that can be used today, of which we need and in the search for which we invest and which represent the economy and jobs, should have a limit on their ability to self-renewal and to remain available for the new generations. Therefore, the sea is clearly a huge source of resources that we must be sensitive and able to use and exploit, obviously with the care of respecting the principles of the blue economy and respecting sustainable use of resources. I believe that this is a bit of a response to your questions, particularly those relating to the economy of hydrocarbons. I presented this and this indicator as an example of the contribution that this type of economy has in the global economy of the oceans — and it is about a third — but I also indicated the global value and growth perspective for the three trillion dollars. Therefore, in the remaining two thirds there is an immensity of clusters, an immensity of objectives and priorities, which can, and should, be developed, in which Portugal is positioning itself and still has much to do to continue to position itself, in order to develop and translate into wealth and jobs for our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u25	I have the floor on behalf of the Government, Ms. Minister of the Sea, Mrs. Ana Paula Vitorino, to whom I wish to congratulate, as well as all the members of the Government present on their bench. Mrs. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also welcome the initiative of this House to promote a debate on a subject which is not often addressed in our political means. The economy of the sea is strategic for the sustainable development of Portugal, for the construction of inclusive prosperity, based on an intelligent and innovative specialization of our human capital and our natural ocean capital. According to the Sea Satellite Account ( CSM ), the blue economy represented on average 3, 1 % of the gross value added ( VAB ) and 3, 6 % of the employment of the Portuguese economy, presenting a more resilient behaviour than the rest of the economy. Gross value added increased steadily, even when overall GDP (gross domestic product) decreased. For a period of three years, while the overall economy BVA decreased by 5, 4 %, the blue economy BVA increased by 2, 1 %. Between 2003 and 2016, the turnover in the economy of the sea has grown 13 % and we are waiting for this trend of growth to be confirmed in the data being collected over this last triennium. This growth was boosted by the following sectors: 13 % due to ports of transport and logistics— note that between 2015 and 2017 the total accumulated cargo movement in our ports increased by 7, 4 % and that of containerized cargo increased by 18 %; a 9 % increase in cruise scales and 4 % in the volume of cruise passengers; in maintenance, construction and ship repair there was also an increase of 48 %; in fisheries, aquaculture and in the processing and marketing of their products there was an increase of 5 %, highlighting the increase of 23 % in the average price of the first sale, of 7 % in fish exports and of 5 % in the exports of the fish processing industry. Whereas more than 97% of our territory is sea, with the prospect of becoming the fifth largest ocean area in the world, there is a huge chance of blue growth in Portugal, both in mainland Portugal and mainly in the Autonomous Regions of Azores and Madeira, our ambition is to increase the contribution of the sea economy to the national economy by 2020. The question is: how can this growth be achieved? If, on the one hand, the sea is an abundant source of new economic opportunities in various sectors — transport, fishing, aquaculture, energy, geological and biological resources — on the other hand, it has been the target of the negative impact of human activity. More and more known are cases associated with marine pollution, with particular focus on plastics, with increased marine waste, increased noise production, illegal fishing, overfishing, chemical water pollution, acidification of the oceans. It is therefore one of the greatest challenges of development policy to achieve an economic model that generates wealth, abundance and good jobs which, at the same time, does not undermine the environmental sustainability of the marine ecosystem, critical to the support of life on our planet. An aggressive strategy against plastics can be financially negative in early times, but according to all studies, in the medium and long term profits will certainly be higher than costs. According to the studies carried out, there may be an 86% increase in quality of life, an 80% economic growth and a 78% increase in employment. This is one of the reasons why the policy of the sea, the National Strategy for the Sea (ENM), is strategically based on the concept of a circular economy based on prevention, reduction, reuse, recovery and recycling of materials and energy. Substituting the concept of end-of-life of the linear economy by new circular flows of reuse, restoration and renewal, what we want to promote is the dissociation between economic growth and the increase in resource consumption, traditionally seen as inseparable. The aim is to develop new products and services that are economically viable, environmentally efficient, which are ideally based on perpetual cycles of upstream and downstream conversion. The Ministry of the Sea currently has several initiatives and projects that promote the paradigm of the blue circular economy in various areas — cleaning, literacy, scientific projects — but it is necessary to bet on an integrated policy to bring about the blue circular economy. The strategy of the sea is based on three axes: the promotion of blue knowledge and its sovereignty, the promotion of blue environmental sustainability and the promotion of the blue economy. with regard to this, Portugal is committed to the commitment between generating a new cycle of economic development and creating more sustainability, and we have two political lines. The first line focuses on ensuring the competitiveness of our ports and promoting a global network of Port Tech Clusters and green shipping. In fact, this will be the main theme of the 2018 International Oceans Meeting event, organized by the Ministry of the Sea on 20 and 21 September, which will be preceded by the events Portugal Shipping Week and Seatrade Cruise Med, in the same week. Next, we will have the 2018 Bio Marine, an international event of high importance for entrepreneurship in the segment of marine bioresources. The second line is the promotion of ocean renewable energy and blue biotechnology. The first political line focuses on increasing the efficiency of the traditional sea economy and this dynamic, generated by innovation and continuous improvement, will lead to the second political line, focused on the development of the new sea economy. To increase logistics competitiveness, we developed a plan for 10 years, providing for an estimated investment of EUR 2, EUR 5 billion, with 83 % of private origin. This plan aims to increase the capacity, efficiency and simplification of the port operation and the logistics chain, which is expected to achieve an increase of 200 %. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, never wait for us to fail to comply with the law in order to implement these plans, which effectively have their procedures. With regard to the port of Barreiro, the new multipurpose terminal of Barreiro, Mr. Pedro do Ó Ramos had already had the opportunity to put this issue, just as I had the opportunity to answer to you Ex., answer that which I will now share with the whole House. As happened with regard to the National Strategy for the Sea, with regard to the major projects under way was an option of this government, and particularly in the area of the sea, to follow what was in progress, and to do so, of course, correcting what was to be corrected — which, even if we had happened to ourselves, is natural. One of the projects that was actually underway was the Barreiro terminal, which had a configuration that was agreed between its government and the City Hall of Barreiro, and I confess that, despite technically not finding the best solution, it was a project that was underway, the parties had all agreed and was to move forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u27	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u28	This is the case of, on the initiative of the PS at the Municipal Barrier Assembly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u29	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u30	...have been questioned about your configuration...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u31	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u32	... and therefore resolved to change not only its configuration, pulling the terminal up the river Tejo, but also to change its functionality,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u33	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u34	...resolving that, in addition to the container terminal, it should be a multi-purpose terminal that would allow the movement of another type of load. Also concerning Sines, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, I am sorry, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u35	Mrs. Minister of the Sea, I ask you to interrupt for a moment, because there is a lot of noise in the room. I ask the Members who are standing to sit down and be careful to create conditions for us to listen to the intervention of the Minister. [[Pause.]] Please, Minister. You can go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this support, because, in fact, I was already having some difficulty concentrating on what I was saying, because of the noise that existed. Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, for whatever project he is, will never cease this government to comply with all applicable legislation, whether it is for environmental impact assessments or for competition procedures. He well knows the difference between estimates and also knows very well that there is a delay in an environmental impact assessment so that there is a subsequent delay in this project. Mr President, we are talking about investments that will be implemented in 10 years — the plan is for 10 years — and that will last almost a century. We're talking about ports, we're not talking about building a bank to sell anything. There is also a significant investment, linked to ports, in increasing the efficiency of information flows, that highlights the Single Logistic Window, which extends to the economy and to all modes of transport, to the entire logistics chain, the concept of Single Port Jane, in which we were also pioneers. This policy line focuses on ports, a privileged point of access to the sea and maritime industry facilities. The port system must be in line with the realization of the circular economy, and must do not only increase energy and environmental efficiency but also act as a changer, promoting the emergence of innovative companies that bring about the blue circular economy. I also draw attention to an investment that was announced last year, already at the end of summer, and which is currently in competition for construction, which concerns the new Barreiro's clearing house. This line of approach to the blue circular economy will be concrete on a global scale through the creation of a global network of Port Tech Clusters and of platforms for accelerating sustainable technological and business innovation. It is necessary to join companies and research centres in the world's ports to facilitate their access to the sea and shorten innovation cycles, bringing new sustainable blue products and services to the market at a faster rate and with less development costs. Therefore, we work together with governments from maritime countries so that we can implement this global concept of the Port Tech Clusters and can effectively implement the blue circular economy globally, taking advantage of the potential of digital, biotechnology and new materials in the realization of this design. The promotion of green shipping also involves speeding up the introduction of technologies and solutions that reduce and eliminate the emission of greenhouse particles and gases and leakages of liquid fuel from maritime transport. however, innovation must go further in the direction of sustainable maritime transport, working the area of propulsion and energy efficiency systems and promoting the decarbonization of energy associated with this transport. This work must begin immediately in the design of the ships, which leads us to a significant dimension of the shipbuilding, where we also began to pioneer in the construction of new models, with new forms of propulsion—from there the growth of 48 % I mentioned recently. This is an imposition that is made on us, it is a necessity that we have consciousness and the International Maritime Organization itself obliges it to be so. Therefore, for us, it is extremely important to introduce liquefied natural gas in all national ports, either in the main ports of the continent, either in ports of the Autonomous Region of Azores or in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. It is very important that we all work together so that it may be so. This policy will not only improve the environmental performance of navigation but also create new jobs and new business opportunities. More competitive ports, Port Tech Clusters and green shipping are three effective means to realize the blue circular economy, and that is what we are achieving, assuming international leadership. The second policy line, promoting new activities in the area of the economy of the sea, requires an investment in research, science and innovation for which there was no support in the commercial bank. As you know, we have created an innovative form throughout Europe and around the world, the Blue Fund, which already has 205 candidatures, of which more than a dozen have already been approved, and the first 500 000 € will be paid this month — in fact, they are being paid, are in the process of consultation so that they can be implemented. We know well, and some of those who are here know, how important this Blue Fund is, how important it was to achieve its realization and how many of us have long wanted it to be realized, what we have finally achieved. Also concerning the Sea 2020 2161 applications have already been approved, totalling 229 million euros, of which 77 3 million have already been paid to the beneficiaries. We have therefore executed 17 % and we have a compromise of about 50 %. I also highlight the funding that will be available with the EEA (European Economic Area) Grants, which will enable us, together with these three forms of financing, to obtain EUR 600 million for the development of new blue policies, new sustainable and innovative blue projects. It is also worth noting that the government area of the sea belongs to the steering group of the future blue investment platform of the European Commission, which will launch new financing opportunities for the sea economy. in my work as Minister of the Sea, in order to boost the blue economy I will continue to focus on deepening international partnerships, supporting the conduct of business missions in order to increase and diversify investment capture channels. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In short, as can be verified, the National Strategy for the Sea 2013 - 2020 is being implemented through a set of sectoral strategies focused on the consolidation of innovative and competitive value chains, which will put us on the path of materialization of the growth target of the importance of the sea economy to 5% of national GDP (gross domestic product). thus, we will be building a more resilient, sustainable economic future with more attractive jobs for Portuguese people, placing our country in the global leadership of smart blue growth, inclusive and valuer of natural capital. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u37	Mr. Minister of the Sea, the Bureau records the entries of seven Mrs. Members to request clarification from the PSD, the Greens, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Left Block, the PS, and a second request for clarification from the CDS-PP. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u38	I shall answer first to four and then to three, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u39	The first request for clarification is from Mrs Helga Correia, the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u40	Mr President, of course, I welcome the Minister of the Sea and the Members of the Commission. State Secretaries. Ladies and gentlemen. Deputies, the dislosure and regulation of channels in the Aveiro River is an ancient concern of the populations, authorities and economic and tourist agents of the Aveiro region and was also a concern of the former Government and Parliament. In December 2016, Parliament unanimously recommended to the Government the urgent need to disengage and regulate the flows of the Aveiro River and to ensure that the work was carried out by the Minister of the Environment in his presentation of the invitation to tender No 2. the quarter of 2017 and the conclusion during the year 2019. Now, according to what was announced last March, in Illhavo, by both Ministers, the Environment and the Sea, the undertaking will be launched on the second 15th of May. Ms. Minister, the Environmental Compliance Report of the Implementation Project (RECAPE) says that dredgers on environmental issues should be carried out between March and June. Will the government wait until March 2019 to start the dredgings? Are there solutions to regulate the canals of the river to complement the works of de-absorption, with more constant flows and better conditions of navigation, not to degrade agricultural land, as Parliament recommended to the Government? When are these works recommended by Parliament to be completed, and what do local actors and the population require? Mrs. Minister, another question concerns the fishing bars and ports of Póvoa de Varzim and Vila do Conde. When do you think the Government assume a real timing of the dredging works of the fishing port and bar of Póvoa / Vila do Conde, where the Minister announced last January an investment of EUR 1, 4 million? in this region there is a very relevant fishing community. The authors are concerned about the security issues and the economic impact that this lack of interest of the Government is causing because in the former PSD/CDS government, even with the financial constraints that are known to all, the previous government has never been as absent as the current government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u41	Liar! It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u42	That's right, sir! In view of the above, Ms. Minister, the PSD is entitled to require the Government to make a commitment on this subject, of the greatest relevance to the populations of the Aveiro region, the Povoa of Varzim and Vila do Conde. Mr Minister, the Government has already revealed that it does not meet the deadlines, does not honour your word. Where is the word given that is an honest word? What do you have to say about this? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u43	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, the maritime areas under our responsibility, whether the territorial sea, or the exclusive economic zone, or the continental shelf, represent as a whole a valuable element, would even say decisive for the future of the country's development. We have already had the opportunity to hear the Minister say that the Blue Growth Strategy requires or presupposes the exploitation of the sea in the different European funds, and we agree, but it was important that this strategy should be strengthened, both at the level of the fund package in the post-2020 and also at the level of the European regulations. And the first question which the Greens want to raise in this debate is precisely about this, i.e. whether or not we have assurances that this strategy will indeed be strengthened in these two sets of instruments? On the other hand, the Minister, the strategic economic potential of the sea economy, because of the importance that can be covered for our economy and for the development of the country, must be looked into with an eye to see. And, in our perspective, looking at this potential with eyes to see means ensuring that its reinforcement is based on or assumed as a basis the environmental sustainability and sustainability of marine resources. in this context, it was important to know, as part of the strengthening of the strategic economic potential of the sea economy, how environmental sustainability and sustainability of marine resources are present and reflected at the 2030 strategy level. This is, for us, a central issue in this debate. It is a central issue for all reasons, to which we will have to add the consequences of climate change, which is also visible at the level of the rise in the average seawater level and the increase in temperatures, and, of course, of other risks associated with climate change, which our country unfortunately knows so well, in particular with the consequences at the level of our coastal zone. However, this increasingly evident threat requires serious measures that can actually contribute to combating the phenomenon of climate change and what we would like to know is what measures are being taken by the government at sea policy level to counter or at least reduce the impacts of climate change. Mr Minister, now moving to more concrete aspects, concerns or issues, I begin by the lack of fishing infrastructure in the Tejo River, which is seriously jeopardizing traditional fishing in the estuary. We see the time pass and we continue without places for fishing boats from dozens of local fishing communities can rob, as well as weighing and selling sites on the shoreline. In fact, as the Minister knows, there is only one on the Fountain of Canvas and another on the Coast of Caparica, which is clearly insufficient. On the other hand, in the face of the decapitalisation of Docapesca and the passivity of the APL ( Administration of the Port of Lisbon, S.A. ) , the problem tends, of course, to get worse. As you can see, this situation is being very penalizing both for fishermen and for the survival of this economic activity itself, but also for the country, and it is therefore necessary to take measures to avoid the worst. There are jobs at stake, there is an economic activity at risk and also part of our local production, with all the consequences arising there. Therefore, Madam Minister, it would be important for you to give your opinion on this matter. In conclusion, we wanted to bring to the debate the serious problem of economic and environmental sustainability, but also of public health, which represents the illegal catch of beech on the Roof. The Minister announced the construction of the debugger at the Barreiro, but we know nothing more about this construction, particularly the deadlines and its implementation. In fact, even if we count on this debugger, we believe that the problem will not be solved, because we continue without supervision and without clearly defined rules in this matter. I remember that, in addition to everything else, there are already situations very close to what we could call almost slavery networks in this activity and, therefore, there would be every interest in Mr.Minister telling us about the measures that the Government is planning to develop to solve this serious problem, which is an economic problem, is a social problem but it is also a problem of environmental sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u45	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u46	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretarys : In fact, Portugal has a true sea of opportunities, but I would say that it also brings with it a horizon of challenges. Mrs. Minister, I have questions to ask you about three topics. From 2020, which is tomorrow, Portugal will, as we all hope, have plus 2 million square kilometres of surface. It'll be 10. the exclusive economic zone of the world to 3. Europe and 2. that of the European Union, as also recently the Minister had the opportunity to say. And the way out of the United Kingdom of the European Union requires Portugal to assume great European power in the area of the sea. The recognition of the extension of the Portuguese continental shelf, which is a national design for which we all worked and which we all want, is perhaps one of the greatest challenges ahead. I wonder how the Government is preparing to assume its jurisdictional responsibilities in a territory of over 2 million square kilometers? We will have more responsibilities, more international obligations, we will have a greater area of monitoring and surveillance and thus I wonder what the integrated maritime policy of this Government has to give us in this area. The answer Mrs. Minister gave to the CDS, and to me personally, a long time ago, was that we would have to do more with less, which for us is very little, Mrs. Minister. We therefore hope to know more about what we can count on in this matter to assume our responsibilities. with regard to the blue economy, the Government aims to double the weight of the blue economy in GDP, as the Minister also had the opportunity to reiterate in her speech in the rostrum. But in order to assess the effectiveness of public policies, it is necessary to have measuring instruments in order to be able to evaluate these policies, it is necessary to assess and understand whether something needs to be adjusted and improved. For this reason, the previous government created the Satellite Sea Account ( CSM ), in view of the interest this sea theme has for the country. But at the end of almost two and a half years of government, how can we effectively assess the achievement of these objectives? What has been done, Minister? basically, we do not know, so apart from the many announcements that come to the public every day, in particular, we do not have instruments of measurement. I wonder, then, why has the Minister determined that the Satellite Sea Account would only be published every three years? It is that the Satellite Health Account, that of the Environment, that of Tourism, just to name a few, are all annual. Why did a department come out in 2017 to determine that the Sea Satellite Account would be published only every three years?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u48	What has the government done to dynamize, for example, sea-related tourism, which is responsible for more than a third of the economy of the sea, the gross added value of the sea? The Recreational Nautical Regulation is also not operational and has been the target of many criticisms. In fact, how can we evaluate policies and how can the government itself assess what their policies have been and understand whether they need to adjust or not? To the benefit of transparency, I think that these data should be public. They exist, just add them the way it is established. Mrs Minister, my third note has to do with scientific research, which is also essential for the development of the economy of the sea. There would be a lot to ask about this, but I leave only one simple question: where is the ship Mar Portugal? It's just that he's been walking on a yard and wondering if he'll still be standing at the Peniche Shipyards. This is clearly another result of the seizures of this government, Mrs Minister, which compromise scientific research and also compromise the development of the sea economy. The country cannot afford to have a stopped ship for two and a half years, waiting for money to be equipped and actually start doing scientific research at sea. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u49	To ask for clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, the dynamization of port activity in the Algarve is a fundamental element for the economic development of the region and this has been ignored by successive governments, which have neglected the ports of the Algarve region, not making the essential investments in its recovery, maintenance and modernization. This semi-abandonment was added to a wrong decision of the former PSD/CDS Government to fragment the management of the ports of algalvios, assigning the management of the fishing ports and recreational marinas to the Docapesca and the management of the commercial ports to the Administration of Porto de Sines. This fragmentation, which has no parallel in national port administrations, is an inhibitor of an integrated strategy of port management and port activity in the Algarve, and should be reverted. In December 2016, the Government announced the intention to create an entity called Ports do Algarve, but excluded fishing ports and considered the possibility of transferring responsibility by that entity to the authorities, which do not have the financial, material and human resources to ensure the investment, maintenance and development of port infrastructures. The dynamization of port activity in the Algarve region requires, as the CFP has been proposing over the years, the creation of the administration of the ports of the Algarve. That is why I ask you, Minister, whether the Government is available to create this entity, integrating all the commercial fishing and recreational ports of the Algarve region. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Minister, the Algarve region currently has two commercial ports, one in Faro and the other in Portimão. Recently a very worrying proposal emerged from the initiative of the executive PSD / CDS of the city of Faro, and which deserved some reception by Mr.Minister, a proposal that, to be implemented, would involve the dismantling of the commercial port of Faro, depriving the Algarve region of a fundamental infrastructure to support the unsuited recovery of the regional productive apparatus. So I ask you, Minister, how does the Government intend to dynamize the maritime port sector with the possible dismantling of the commercial port of Faro? Ms. Minister, the commercial port of Faro must be preserved, valued and recognized, along with the commercial port of Portimão, as a fundamental instrument for the development of the region of the Algarve. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u51	To answer, you have the floor to Ms.Minister of the Sea, Ana Paula Vitorino.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. On the first question, which has to do with the dredgings, Mrs Helga Correia, in fact, you must be misinformed or, then, we should be talking about another reality, because the fact is that, with regard to the Povoa of Varzim and Vila do Conde, as has been said in this House, a few years ago, for that time the Secretary of State of the Sea — unfortunately, there was still no word to move forward with the dredgings. Today, comparatively, the dredging of Vila do Conde has already been awarded, which began to be done and was suspended due to atmospheric conditions, but as soon as technically it can be resumed, so it will be done. As the honourable Member should imagine, despite protecting the IPMA (English Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere), it is not me who determines the atmospheric conditions. As for Póvoa do Varzim, the request for decapitation has also been made for this intervention. In fact, it has always been said that last year would start the one of Vila do Conde and this year the one of Póvoa do Varzim. The disabsorption of the Aveiro River, as Mrs. Deputy knows, is a project that is being coordinated and led by the Ministry of the Environment. Nevertheless, I tell you that the technical services of the Ministry of the Environment have determined that this disabsorption would be done during the summer. Therefore, it was the technical services that determined it, not the Minister of the Environment nor me, so I don't know what the honourable Member is relying on to say what she said. The technical services of the Ministry of the Environment are today the same as they were before and determined that this was done. With regard to the questions put by Mr José Luís Ferreira, on the financing after-2020 and what is the national proposal, I am not going to talk about commitments here, because, as you know, this is something that is being discussed internally—there is also a possible committee here in Parliament — and with the European Commission. Our proposal for the sea area is that there is, on the one hand, a strengthening of the flexibility associated with the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, the EMFF, so that the funds of the Sea 2020 — or the name at the time — can be used for other types of projects, extending the possibility of deciding another type of support and, on the other hand, in each fund which has a percentage for the sea area. This is our proposal, another type of guarantee I cannot give you. As regards climate change, as you know, the activities linked to the sea have, above all, to the Sustainable Development Goal 14, although it also interferes with almost all other objectives, from food quality to all other areas. But Objective 14 of Sustainable Development will be achieved through several measures. I highlight the commitments that Portugal has made with regard to the United Nations Agenda 2030, with regard to the extension of the marine protected areas and the ongoing projects—which will be 14 %, instead of the 10 % that the rest of Europe has taken—and also waste cleaning and monitoring projects, which are already in progress, the vast majority of which are led by the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere). The blue circular economy and all energy priority options have to do with these climate changes, contributing a little to what has to be something global in all areas that influence maritime policies. With regard to the lack of fishing infrastructure on the Roof, it particularly focused on the illegal capture of the measles. As I had the opportunity to say in the initial intervention, as announced last year, it is now in competition—the project and all the evaluations have already been made — the construction of the new debugger, which will allow to deal with what has to do with public health, and there have been most felt monitoring actions on the ground on this matter. As regards the questions put by Mr Paulo Sá about the ports of Algarve, particularly the port of Faro — and I must say that I have little time to answer — we believe that this is a matter whether it is related to recreation nautical, or to fishing infrastructures that have a lot of interaction with local communities and therefore are matters that we have to decide together with the authorities. On the port of Faro, there are proposals from the City Hall of Faro that come, at the bottom, to find a solution for what is already incontrovertible, that the port of Faro has no customers — had a customer but no longer has — and that has to do with the existence of alternatives in the context of the economy of the sea. With regard to Ports do Algarve, we await the outcome of what has to do with decentralization and the solution that is found by Ports do Algarve. It is a solution that is working, at the moment there is a consultation between Docapesca, the port of Sines and AMAL where the most urgent projects are being managed and decided – indeed, the port of Portimão is being invested. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u53	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the second round of requests for clarification. To this end, Mr John Vasconcelos of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Fisheries, Mrs and Mrs. Members, Minister of the Sea, the current Government's programme has chosen the sea as a national design, enhancing the economic activities of the sea, creating employment, increasing exports and maximizing the growth dynamics of maritime transport. with regard to commercial ports, they are considered as a fundamental pillar for the economic development of the country, betting the Government on its modernisation, improving maritime and land infrastructure and accessibility and more efficient management. Even more recently, through the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 175 / 2017, the Strategy for Increasing Competitiveness of the Network of Commercial Ports of the Continent, Horizon 2026, where the port of cruises of Portimão was integrated into the port strategy at national level, which is really relevant. To this end, as stated in the Resolution, the port of Portimão will have to undergo several requalification works to be completed in 2020, allowing the reception of cruise ships up to 272 m. Mr Minister, it is therefore essential that the announced works move forward without delay and do not serve once again for electoral manoeuvres. It is worth recalling that the previous Government, PSD / CDS,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u55	... announced with the pump and circumstance works of requalification of the port of Portimão, which did not pass from mere intentions of propaganda. Mr Minister, what is the point of the situation, which is the timetable, for when do I begin the works of the commercial port of Portimão? On the commercial port of Faro, the Minister has already confirmed that he would be disabled. If so, giving rise to other activities, it will be truly regrettable that this happens and will be a loss of the productive economic fabric of the Algarve. Mrs. Minister, another question has to do with the situation of serious harassment in the Algarve, and a little bit throughout the country, of bars, ports, canals and rivers that call into question craft fishing, endangers the safety of crews and vessels, such as in Tavira, in Santa Luzia, in Fuzeta, in the Alvor River. Mr. Minister, this endangers this activity and is a very serious situation. Mr Minister, will the Government or will not urgently intervene in the Tavira bar and in other locations, reducing these difficulties? Madam Minister, to conclude, I would like to know how the situation of the port of Leixões is, for when the environmental impact study, for when what was announced by the Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u56	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Sins, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of the Sea, the only advantage the PS has of having scheduled this debate is to be one more among many attempts to make the economy of the sea central to the national economy, but unfortunately I fear that this debate will be another missed opportunity. Therefore, I would like to humbly try to contribute so that you can understand something of this strategy and if, once and for all, we will have work and achievements in relation to what is a plan of all, and there is a broad consensus that we have to look at as a great economic asset. Then the questions I'm going to ask. With regard to the Silk Route, in the possible committee for the 2030 Community Funds, we all consider this the big issue. The truth is that it is indeed a good question, but Portugal is risking to see only « passing ships», as always. Because 65 countries, 4, 4 million people, the link between two relevant economic geographical areas, the enlargement of the Panama Canal is indeed a great opportunity, but this assumes that the Minister will carry out what she has just said. It assumes that it achieves the increase in the competitiveness of ports, the technological renewal of port work... In fact, we must recognize, in fact, the tonnagetax, we have, eventually, the Single Port Jane with great advances, but there is still an "elephant in the middle of the room", of course - I always ask you the same question - the ability or not to have armed personnel on ships. Portugal is the only country—in fact, there is also Latvia, so there are two countries—that did not solve this issue and it is relevant so that Portuguese shipowners can also be competitive. Then, of course, we have to solve something that is in the Internationalisation programme — the AICEP itself ( Portuguese Investment and Foreign Trade Agency ) speaks of it as being a major factor in the competitiveness of ports — and which appears in one of the objectives of the Government, which is to transform the port system into a service area for the supply of ships to liquefied natural gas. Mr Minister, it is a good measure, but I ask when, in what circumstances and how we will have the capacity to provide that service and even export capacity for that service. That's why we don't know. We also, of course, have the capacity to have operating conditions of the ports themselves, we have a set of modernization plans, connecting the ports to the railway... It will say: "Well, the government has now announced the Elvas / Caia connection". It's true! It was for 2017, it is announced for 2021. When will we have the port of Sines and the Portuguese port system connected to the railway? When will we remove all cabotage capacity, i.e. interaction between ports? There is here a set of subjects that have been announced, but there is no need to do so. I could also ask you what will be done with regard to recreation nautical. Mr. Secretary of State said that he wanted a more important role of the authorities in relation to recreation nautical, even talking about a new regulation involving the authorities in the management of recreational ports. We didn't see anything about it. We believe it is essential to involve the authorities in management, as we also understand that it is essential to look at recreation nautical as an economic value for tourism and not only, from the surf, windsurfing, kitesurfing, skiing, underwater hunting, motonautics, sailing, canoeing... There are even areas in the country today that are having economic growth, because there are a number of Olympic teams especially from countries in northern Europe who have come to train for Portugal, because conditions have been created for this. What's needed is to regulate, to solve. The Portuguese Association of Recreational Browser Schools also complains that the government confuses nautical sports with recreational navigation. According to what the Minister says, it even seems so, but I think the Minister can say: "Well, we'll find here a kick. » Who does the management of recreation nautical? Port authorities and authorities. How does that work? What about training? How do we look at sports and how do we look at what is a tourist value? So we have a number of questions connected to the sea that I would like the Minister to be able to answer, and I would focus on what, I think, is fundamental. There is a long way — the Competition Authority has done so — about the competitiveness of ports, there is a long way we have to do about port work and the companies that provide it, there is a long way on which the strategy we will have for the terminals — we have already asked questions about this matter here, the Barreiro terminal and the Sines contract. For what? So that Portugal can in fact create conditions on earth and in its connection to international logistics networks so that the Silk Route is no longer a phrase made, a mirage, in the bottom, a hand full of nothing. Mrs Minister, in particular, I ask you what the government is doing in these areas. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u58	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Passos of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u59	Mr President, Mrs. Minister of the Sea, I welcome you, Mrs. State Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Fisheries, Mrs and Mrs. Members, for the current government, the sea has again taken on a long-lost central importance, and a well-defined strategy for the sector will certainly put our country back in a position of international leadership. This strategy integrates sustainable development objectives with the conservation and intelligent use of the ocean and its natural resources to play a decisive role in society's well-being and economic development. It is also worth noting that the financial instruments made available by the current government, by the current legislature, amounting to EUR 600 million, have stimulated projects in several sectors within the framework of the sustainable blue economy. They have been directed to support the development of the ocean economy, blue startups, scientific research, maritime safety, protection and monitoring of the marine environment, also through the education of new generations with ocean literacy projects. This potential for the innovation and growth of the blue economy will not be at the expense of environmental impacts or losses of natural capital, but, rather, from the sustainable use of natural resources, including through sustainable management of fisheries, aquaculture and tourism. For this reason, we currently have national programmes that allow us to deepen our knowledge of the marine environment and its resources, such as « Fishing by a sea without waste », the National Program for Biological Sampling and the Sardinia Project, which proposes an ecosystem approach to the management of sardine fisheries and the impact of marine contamination on pelagic species. This integrated ocean knowledge, with continuous management and monitoring of biological data, will also enable us to deal more effectively with global changes, particularly with the worrying climate changes. It is currently considered that the major challenges related to innovation and research relate to the integrated knowledge of the oceans, opening up an opportunity for innovation in the study of biodiversity, sustainable exploitation of marine resources, technological challenges in the area of fisheries stock management and the exploitation of new food products in relation to aquaculture, as well as the level of exploitation of renewable energies from tides, waves and oceans, with global changes and natural risks resulting from human action and from the connection to society, including economic issues related to marine uses, such as transport and ports. Mr. Minister, what is the growth perspective of the blue economy for the next decade and how can this influence regions with strong link to the activities of the sea, such as the Algarve? Welcoming the Minister for the inclusion of the port of cruises of Portimão in the Strategy for the Increase of Port Competitiveness, what future advocates for this port structure? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u60	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of the Sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u61	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Ana Passos and the Members. Mr. João Vasconcelos and Mr. Hélder Amaral, the questions they raised. On the ports of the Algarve and the interventions that are being made, in response to Mr João Vasconcelos but also Mr Paulo Sá since I have not done so recently, I will say the following: concerning the port of Faro, this will not stop working in the economy of the sea, will have other activities that create jobs, because at the moment there is no employment in that port because there is no load. That's the problem. And, as you know, it's not the government, nor the autarchs, who get cargo to put on the ports. It's the economy that works. So we want to save that area to keep saving the sea. That's what we want to do and I think we're going the right way. Regarding the port of Portimão, there is a EUR 2 million for this year in order to start a project that will cost EUR 17, EUR 5 million—a competition has already been launched for the environmental impact study—and will be signed, according to the information given to me this month. Therefore, we will expect that this will happen and will be in favour of the opinion of the institutions of the environment. With regard to the port of Legions and other ports, I would like to reply to Mr Hélder Amaral and to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who have asked me the same question - we have a plan for 10 years and we are fulfilling the timetable. It is not possible to evaluate whether it will be in a given month, in the previous month or in the following month. We're doing all those interventions. In fact, on the port of Leixões, still yesterday we had a meeting that involved Docapesca and APDL ( Administration of the ports of Douro and Leixões ) to see exactly what the best configuration is because the question of the extension of the spring and the dredging of the rotation basin is already in public consultation and, however, is almost going on critical path the question itself of the terminal. We must, however, resolve the situation of reconciling fishing with the commercial terminal. That is, as I said, a meeting was held yesterday so that you can study the best configuration so that there are no problems like what happened in the Barreiro. That's what's at stake. For all terminals, we are not stopped. On the Silk Route, still this week, was signed in Elvas, except error on Monday, an agreement between the logistics of Badajoz and that of Elvas so that the ports of Sines, Setúbal and Lisbon could be used for the loads of the Spanish Strait precisely to be able to enter the Silk Route, because the port that is on the Silk Route is that of Sines. In other words, we want to channel the cargoes there and that the entire Spanish stremadura, as well as Portuguese, are within the context of the hinterland of the port of Sines and the ports of the south. As regards recreation nautical, we are precisely in the third version of the proposed amendment to the regulation in order to reconcile the whole sector. And there is no confusion between nautical and recreation nautical sport, there is only the following confusion that I am going to explain: we want to democratize the access of the entire population...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u62	Mrs. Minister, pay attention to time. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u63	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, we really want to reconcile recreation nautical, recreational nautical associations and nautical sports so that all our children and adolescents can have access to the charter of junior sailors, if they have a school sport given by licensed entities. So there is no confusion about this, there is an extension in which, perhaps, some businesses may feel damaged. I respond very quickly to Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u64	Mrs. Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u65	I'll take 1 minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u66	Yeah, that's it. It's already exceeded the time it had in one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u67	So it's only one more minute, Mr. President. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, regarding the supervision of jurisdiction and sovereignty, the work being carried out has, on the one hand, a component linked to the Ministry of National Defence, with new technologies, namely satellite, drones, connecting the Navy to the Air Force, and, on the other hand, a more focused research plan on this matter. And don't worry, Mrs Deputy, because only with Norway can we make three times more cruises than we did in time. We have scientific programmes and I must say that the Portuguese Sea is currently in the process of licensing with the support of the structure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u68	You have the floor for one speech, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD believes that the development of the sea economy is a decisive tool for achieving a country more committed to the use of endogenous resources, a qualified job promoter and thus with better bases to strengthen its autonomy. This assertion assumes irrefutable prominence when Portugal is required to take advantage of its comparative advantages, strengthen the conditions of competitiveness and respond to trends in a globalised economy, marked by a voracious competition and in which the construction and domain of high value chains are critical to the success of the country. In the sea is the window of opportunity. These purposes and our action should be framed in a broader, structurally more lasting plan, in the light of the enlargement of the continental shelf and understanding the challenges that it faces in defining the fundamental guidelines under which the country should be governed. Faced with the magnitude of the task, we never see it as a solitary exercise with political transversality or social mobilization. A design like this, that of the sea, as colossal as the larger ones, is not enough, it is not exhausted, nor is it done by a government or a party in a legislature, it is made with constancy, nerve and priority, it is made with clear options. And it is today that we must question the government, not our own — that is firm, solid, indisputable — but the current commitment which it has made, and unfortunately we have a basis for doing so, not because it has not been formulated, but because a commitment which is a compromise is not consumed in the statement, it is achieved. And in that the Government clearly does not satisfy in decisive areas. It does not satisfy the ports, when it is unable to respond to its own challenges regarding the port of Sines, without new terminal or enlargement of the current when the search requires it and the infrastructure approaches the exhaustion, or, for example, in the new Multimodal Terminal of Barreiro, which is involved in a tragic confusion, which has cost time and money and so far without results in view, or in the renegotiations of concessions that would all be, it seems, impertiably concluded in 2016, which does not occur. It does not satisfy the Blue Fund, which was formed in 2016 but which unfortunately drags until 2018 without yet making any payment of the 54 million that claim to be available until the end of the legislature, in such a pressing area as the strengthening of research in the area of the sea. It does not satisfy the recreational nautical, in which a new regulatory framework is proposed in force in the first quarter of 2017 and is known for these days a preliminary draft which deserves the most implacable repairs in the sector. It does not satisfy the implementation of the law on the basis of maritime planning and management, it was fortunately concluded in the previous legislation, which is the basic stone for attracting investment and which is incomprehensiblely removed from the single electronic counter and from the situation plans, which amplifies its effectiveness, as it identifies itself in the marginal investment that has been registered and that causes the economy of the sea to stagnate. It is a challenge to consult the Platform for the Sea — yes, it is a worthwhile achievement — and to verify that the projects that have been born in recent years are hand-held. It does not satisfy the Community funds, whose application is below what the country needs, particularly in traditional activities such as fisheries and aquaculture, with implementing rates of 17 % below the average of other sectors. It does not satisfy the tonnagetax, which is an initiative which, as we have assumed, deserves our consideration, if it is eternal in the face of the irreconcilable positions of the parties that support the Government and is not intended complete to revitalize the merchant navy, because it does not take care of other obstacles, such as the issues relating to the formation of seafarers and armed guards or the indifference to the ratification of international treaties relevant to the safeguarding and strengthening of maritime transport. The currents and winds, however, are largely favorable. The sea is not creaked. There is, essentially, no obstacle to the advancement of the economy of the sea; the obstacle is today the priority that is not dedicated to it and therefore the lack of realisation that makes the country neglect this matter. Paraphrasing Fernando Persona, « Because I am the size of what I see/ And not the size of my height». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u70	For an intervention, Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u71	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Portugal's commercial ports are a key pillar for national economic development. The new access implemented by public policies determines that this development must bear wealth, not only for the neighbouring areas of the ports themselves, but for a set of territories that, regardless of their location, benefit from the positive effect generated by their dynamics. The expansion of port influence if, on the one hand, it powers more distant regions, on the other, it increases port capacity, its degree of importance and its centrality on a global scale. The efficiency of logistics chains as well as the connection to the Trans-European Transport Network ( TEN-T ) must support the strategic development of the Atlantic corridor, which links national ports to the European network, focusing on maritime, river and land intermodality to increase the competitiveness of the port sector. The Competitiveness Strategy of the Continental Commercial Ports Network - Horizon 2026 sets out the importance of integrated territorial development policies and affirms a national cohesion strategy that, as it is apparent, is indispensable for Portugal. Cross-border cooperation, which is essential for the implementation of measures for the optimization and development of the Atlantic corridor, which enables Portugal's ports to be effectively linked to Spain, as well as the South-West European to the rest of Europe, has to play a decisive role in what is now assumed as a strategy to be followed. Even this week, in Elvas, the signing of a joint position between the Government of Portugal, through His Excellency the Minister of the Sea, the Regional Government of Extremadura, by his President Guillermo Fernandez Vara, and by the President of the City Council of Elvas, Nuno Mocinha, affirming the contribution of the Logistic Platform of Elvas in the context of the traffic of goods in the international corridor South Sines / Setúbal / Lisbon-Madrid-Europe, which enhances the economic development of the municipality of Elvas, the region of Alentejo, Portugal, and the region of Extremadura, Spain. As has been stated and signed, we will be in line with the defence and implementation of the following solutions: the drive for intermodal logistics solutions, aiming at the sustainable growth of freight transport in the Sines-Stúbal-Lisboa-Madrid-Europe corridor; the simplification of multimodality and the strengthening of maritime transport as a means of transport promoting competitiveness and sustainability of that corridor; the development of new digital collaborative models between the different actors of national and Iberian/cross-border logistics chains; the development of logistics activities in the logistics network of the cities of Elvas, Badajoz, Campo Maior ; expanding and improving the connection to the interland of the port arch Sines / Setúbal / Lisbon to Spain; facilitating the movement of goods/transports in the logistics and ports of the ports of Sines, Lisbon and Setúbal ; increasing the efficiency of the ports of logistics and the economies of scale between the ports of Sines and the markets of trades, the trades and simplification of these services. This understanding emerges in close connection with the collaboration protocol between the municipality of Elvas, the Transitex, the DGRM ( Directorate-General for Natural Resources, Safety and Maritime Services ) and the ports of Lisbon, Setúbal and Sines for the creation of the Single Logistic Window, in accordance with the Program of the XXI Constitutional Government, with evolution and natural extension of the Single Port Window. The municipality of Elvas is part of the Euro-Region Alentejo-Centro-Extremadura, located in the southern international corridor ( Sines / Caia ) of the Railway Plan 2020, which is an integral part of the Trans-European Transport Network, making the Elvas Logistics Platform a major infrastructure for the expansion of the hinterland of the ports of Lisbon, Setúbal and Sines and plays a very important role for the imports and exports of Alentejo and southern Spain, thus facilitating the entry and exit by sea of the goods imported and produced in the euro-region. In short, port strategy is not only a strategy for ports, it is above all a strategy for the national economy, for the development of the country and for the territorial cohesion of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u72	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u73	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government Mrs and Mrs. Members: The sea contains an immensity of resources that must be thought of in a view of the overall development of the country. For this to happen, by refusing a strict extractive vision, environmentally unsustainable, it is necessary to invest a lot in knowledge and research. from another perspective, a great deal of public investment is needed, from the very outset, in the preservation of the environmental conditions of the sea, which are fundamental in combating climate change. The sea is not just an economic asset, as we have heard today. And it is not enough to think about exploring the sea; it is necessary to preserve the sea. in the most precise area of ports and maritime transport, now quite mentioned here, the Government Programme translates the ambition here today repeated in the speech of the Minister and in the intervention we have just heard. I recall that, in this programme, and in the chapter on the modernisation of port infrastructures and links to international interlands, a plan was being made to increase the capacity of port infrastructures as well as railway links to European interlands. However, the various problematic cases already brought here today to this session, particularly by the Left Block, but not only, show that we are still far from the realization of this ambition. These are various problems that need to be overcome, in order to comply with the programme to which this Government has proposed itself. in transport, the Government intends to support the development of the national merchant navy, increasing the number of vessels with national flag and providing the country with a supply of cargo capacity. The mechanism advanced in the Government Programme was to replicate in Portugal — and I quote — "the most favourable legal and fiscal conditions found, in compliance with the applicable European and international rules. Do not keep on seeking. ” In addition to the reservations that we deserve this competition for the price of European ports, because that is what it is, price competition, only very recently have taken a few steps in this direction. Then there is investment in the economy of the sea. in the background, the Blue Fund grants investment loans. And I was told recently by the Minister that of the 205 applications submitted more than a dozen has already been approved. I would say: just a little more than a dozen has been approved. And we are afraid of the future of the 95 % of applications that have not yet been approved and we wonder how many have not come in and how many will still be on the way. In order to guarantee these loans from the Blue Fund, due to the specific risks associated with this particular area, banks withdraw much, leaving these investments too exposed or even making them impossible. The State will therefore have to take part of the risk, possibly by means of a guarantee financed by the rates of use of the maritime area and by public funds. As is known, the private sector prefers right profits and incomes to risky investment bets, although promising, as is the development of the economy of the sea. It is noted that the Blue Fund does not finance an interesting initiative such as Mare Startup which adds 600 researchers and different support valences, with several research poles in several universities. This case of Mare Startup is an example of the difficulties that continue to confront those who are engaged in research and development in this sector. The Foundation for Science and Technology, in practice, does not recognize the priority for the maritime sector and the response to researchers who propose to work in this area is that « there is no money». Finally, the appellants and large deficiencies in the operation of DGRM are in itself a brake on the economic activities in maritime space to begin by fishing. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ambition is good, but it's not enough! Of course, there is a need to remove the many difficulties in the operation of state services in this area, many of them inherited from a sad past. Then we must support, with public investment, the research and development of this sector in favour of our country, defending us from the insatiable world of big business. In order not to go any further, it is enough to remind ourselves of the dredging business, where the existence of a public dredging company with operational and financial gains for the country would make all the sense. Don't say, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no money to invest and grow the economy of the sea. There's money! It is enough that the political option of government is really to invest significantly in the economy of the sea, applying, for example, a small part of the strike generated by the budget executions, would suffice a small part of the EUR 1200 million in 2017. No one will understand that the government does not do so, as the Left Block defends. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u74	Mr António Ventura of the PSD signed up to ask Mr Carlos Matias a question, but since he no longer has time to answer his request for clarification in an intervention. You therefore have the floor, Mr António Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to bring to the debate a port that has a world strategic position, which is the port of Praia da Vitoria. I would like to ask either the Left Block, which no longer has time to respond, either the CFP, as parties supporting the Government, on which position they have on this port. And why? So far, the Minister, already twice in the Commission, said that the responsibility for investments lies with the regional government and the PS is silent about this. It is now the two parties that support and support this government to say what position they stand for. In mid-2015, it was sent by the Regional Government to the Government of the Republic oPREIT ( Third Island Economic Revitalisation Plan ), which provided for an investment of EUR 77 million to this port, and on 30 April 2016 a joint declaration was signed between the Regional Government and the Government of the Republic in which the text is already different and in which instead of referring to an investment of EUR 77 million, it says « create conditions to allow a candidacy to the Juncker Plan. » That is, from mid-2015 to April 2016, there is a change. What happened in the meantime? Legislative elections. That is to say, the PS has changed its position and changed its text, so it is interesting to know what the position of the parties supporting this government is in relation to this port. This government rules in appearance and not in reality and is shooting forward. More than half of the legislation has passed and the requirement of the regional government for the Government of the Republic has not yet been met. There seems to be a constant front shot, taking into account that it's going to invest. It is therefore the height of the PCP and BE to speak in relation to this strategic port, which is the port of Praia da Vitória. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u76	For an intervention, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u77	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The CFP advocates the need for effective coordination at the level of strategic planning and territorial development between, on the one hand, national ports, investment and bets that are decided upon for them and, on the other, our productive apparatus, its development and its inclusion as an integral part of the logistics chains. Ports are complex infrastructures where many economic activities are developed involving different types of companies and specialized workers, with the intervention of several public entities that act in a complementary way, requiring a great coordination of uses and management of the port space. In general, the management of a port infrastructure must be ensured in an integrated and independent manner of the different activities that are developed in it, enabling the optimization of its exploitation and the compatibility of the different uses: merchant marine, fishing marine, recreation nautical, maritime-tourism activities, among other uses. over the last decades, several political processes and options have been developed which essentially aim to privatize various sectors of the state with different rhythms and impacts: opening up economic sectors to private initiative; privatization of enterprises in the state business sector; transfer of direct government administration to indirect administration; formatting of the state to the interests of large economic groups; privatization of social functions of the State; transfer to the private initiative of strategic activities of the State; sale of State heritage, etc. There are those who argue that not everyone will have the same political, economic or even social importance. As for us, all sectors, without exception, constitute a link to the current of right-wing policy, which aims to minimize the functions of the State, maximizing, on the other hand, the business scope of the private initiative, with obvious reflections on the accumulation of wealth. It is in this context that the privatisation strategy for sea ports linked to the transport of goods is inserted, and then continue to privatize the component linked to the catch of fish. We have clearly identified the need to break with the policies followed by previous Governments, the PS and the PSD and the CDS, which seek to give the idea that they govern in the sense of « public case », although in fact and in practice they converge in the sense of « private case ». The question is: State investment is intended for what? Making a financial return? Stimulating the social functions of the State? Is it improving the living and working conditions of the population? Or multiplying private investment by n times? That's the point! The strategy is already old and well known. First, the pretext is to involve, before, advisers and consultants, one and the other paid by weight of gold and, subsequently, private companies, where they will certainly not cease to participate, ex-ministers and former state secretaries, some of them entitled to advisors and consultants from private companies. We cannot defend policies where the State builds the infrastructure, ensures its maintenance, and then the concessionaires have income. The state has the costs and the dealers keep the profit! This is a robbery! in this sense, we do not follow the privatization strategy of ports, the option has to be another, for another policy that corresponds to the general interest of the country, contrary to that which has been followed by the governments of the PS, the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u79	We understand, therefore, that the existence of a strategy appropriate to national interest, in which the dynamization of productive sectors is oriented, firstly, by a question of sovereignty and valorization of national production, for the removal of the country's deficiencies. The existence of such a strategy will certainly not please a set of economic interests that move in the search for an increase in their profits, but we are sure that it is the best way of defending the national interest. We therefore reaffirm the need to break with the policy that has sacrificed investment in the name of the deficit. A policy that sacrifices higher levels of growth by submitting to European Union commitments, which is clear in the case of the maritime-port sector. Another major concern of the PCP has to do with the refusal of policies that avoid port management of productive activity. It is that we cannot have a country only to import and see goods pass and therefore the productive apparatus, national ports and the whole national logistics system must be effectively articulated. Indeed, for the CFP, there is a need to implement an integrated, harmonious and coherent view of the development of the port sector. We cannot have national ports fighting against each other, competing against each other. With a differentiation of the productive profiles, a complementarity of the logistics systems and their effective and truly assumed articulation as a strategic factor, then, yes, the country will have a more coherent, stronger and better conditions to respond to the needs of the country. The political option of recent years points to the segmentation of ports, delivering fishing ports and marinas to the authorities and, on the other hand, the commercial ports, from passengers and some marinas to dealers, which will inevitably make smaller ports not survive. When a port is liquidated, it is the local productive activity that is involved. The choice can only go through a global management of ports, so that larger ports help smaller ports. To bet on this sector is to bet on the modernisation of existing port infrastructures and the transport network with which it connects, so as to enhance the installed and increased production capacity of its export capacity. As an example, the port of Setúbal, which is more dedicated to the goods, needs greater articulation with the productive apparatus such as Alentejan mines and Autoeuropa. The port of Sesimbra is intended for fishing, however, presents an envelope with a socially more fragile specificity; the port of Lisboa, being goods, is less linked to large production and more to the import of goods, which has to coordinate with the playful aspect of the cruises. For the PCP, these specificities are not enemies of complementarity, however, do not require a merger of port management. We agree with the simplification and deburocratization of the processes, but this does not necessarily imply a merger of management. with regard to the specificity of fishing ports, there are major weaknesses, not only with regard to infrastructure conditions, but also with regard to operational conditions, showing little confidence in fishing activity, for vessels, for professionals and for operating conditions. We highlight those who understand to be their greatest problems: there is a general degradation of the infrastructure component of fishing ports; regular situations of absorbing channels of access to ports and operating channels are observed; the overall management of the port space is carried out without an effective effort to manage its use by different activities; in many situations, the lack of planning covers lack of hygiene and safety conditions, which impair normal development of activities and create situations that may lead to accidents at work. in this context, we give as an example the fishing port of Póvoa do Varzim, in Vila do Conde, which, by the assortment, became an authentic beach created by the former Government of the PSD and the CDS, constituting a real trap for the fishermen who use it. in this sense, the PCP has defended the existence of a public company of dredgings. In fact, the country already has a public dredging company, Dragapor, privatized in 2000. The country has permanent needs to satisfy, whether in Viana do Castelo, Aveiro, Figueira da Foz, Lisbon and Algarve, just to give some examples, in addition to other occasional needs. A properly equipped national dredging service would not only create direct employment in Portugal, such as indirect employment in national yards that can repair and even build this type of equipment. It is important to know what measures the Government considers to take in response to national dredging needs. With regard to the economy of the sea and the maritime-port sector, the essential issue of all these problems...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u80	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u81	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, with regard to the economy of the sea and the maritime-port sector, the essential issue of all these problems is that of the strategy of development, defence and guarantee of national sovereignty, good as well as of the public interest in this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u82	For an intervention, Mr Ulisses Pereira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Today's debate — the economy of the sea — is undoubtedly an aggregating and convergent issue on the need for Portugal to maintain strong and active sea betting as a comparative advantage of sustainable growth in the country. It continues to be consensual, I think that among all of us, the need for a national strategy for the sea that recognizes its distinguishing factor internationally and identity, internally. It is therefore fair to state that the former Government gave a strong impetus to this convergence on the sea with the National Strategy for March 2013 - 2020 and, at the same time, with the approval of the Basic Law on the Management and Management of the National Maritime Area in 2014. The sea, public space, holding high levels of biodiversity, where various activities with conflicts of interest are developed, needs to be regulated, avoiding overlap. More: in the face of new challenges, in particular the effects climate change has on the ecosystem of the oceans and its involvement with human activities, an even more systematic monitoring of knowledge and science is required. Mrs. Members, the position of the PSD in this debate is the same as in the past: a partner in building sustainable ideas around the sea economy that value our country in economic, social and environmental terms. That was the case last December, when we made it possible for the authorisation for the national system of vessels and seafarers, as it had already been with the approval of the legal system of aquaculture. However, the PSD considers that more is needed. There are still many obstacles and challenges in many maritime activities that demand the government's response. From the point of view of the review of maritime labour legislation, the registration of crews and vessels in fishing licences, in the Community negotiations for the next programme March 2020 - 2030, ensuring support for productive investments in fisheries, for example, in improving conditions for the conservation and processing of fish. in aquaculture, it is necessary to adjust the time limits of licences for farmed fish and transitional waters and to implement the sectoral plan for the latter. And it is also important to regulate issues related to the purchase and sale of seed of ameijoa-boa, one of the main aquaculture species in Portugal. Also on extractive fishing, the PSD believes that it is necessary to print a greater commitment by the Government to seeking solutions supported by increasing knowledge, which transmit to the international community security in the sustainable management of some species important to our country, as is the case with sardine. For this reason, as has already been said today, it is necessary for the ship Mar Portugal to operate in national and international waters and not be in dock, as it has been in the last two and a half years. It's just, sirs. Members, as Mrs Minister recalled on Tuesday, are the most traditional activities of the sea that are being pulled by the innovative, because in order to lead in the sea it is necessary to ensure the best techniques in fishing and aquaculture, producing with quality and, above all, in balance with the environment. Mrs. Members, as the PSD has said, sea growth is unique. We know how to take advantage of it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u84	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Mr.António Ventura brought here again the theme of the Third Island Economic Revitalization Plan, the PRIIT, and yet he did so, because it also lets me remind here that this Plan was presented to the previous Government, the PSD / CDS-PP, in January 2015, which rejected it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u86	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u87	Yes, sir! In fact, the honourable Member has already referred to this Revitalisation Plan as being « a document to draw money from the Government of the Republic ». But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to recall that this Socialist Party Government was the first to sign a joint declaration with the Azores Government and to make a set of important commitments for the Azores. This was also the first Government of the Republic to include the regional ports, the Azores and Madeira, in a national strategy and to reaffirm, as we have already said here in the Assembly of the Republic, at several times the potential of the port of the beach of Victoria in terms of the supply of liquefied natural gas, or in terms of transatlantic routes. There is indeed a profound shift in the position of this Government of the Republic towards the former Government of the Democratic Social Party and the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why PSD ignores what's being done and says they're just ads,... [[PSD protests.]] ... but what we well know is that in the time of the PSD government / CDS, no ads, no projects, nothing! The Azores were completely voted for forgetfulness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u88	Mr Paul Neves, I will give you the floor for an intervention, but I would ask you to wait a little while until conditions are established on your bench so that you can be heard. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u89	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: When we talk about the sea we must talk about the economy and also about the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores. If Portugal is so large at sea, it must, in large part, be to the two archipelagos. To have a clear idea of this size, it is enough to say the following: the exclusive economic zone of Portugal is 1,727,000 km2 and of these 954 000 km2 are in the Azores and 446 000 km2 in Madeira. In addition, the archipelagos account for 87 % of Portugal's exclusive economic zone.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u91	It is a huge dimension, it is a huge responsibility, but at the same time it is a huge opportunity. The sea has been, for the Government of Madeira, led by the Democratic Social Party, a genuine national design. We are the region of the country which has invested most, for example, in aquaculture — more than half of the national production is made in the seas of Madeira. We produce more than 2000 tonnes of fish per year and by 2020 we will reach 5000 tonnes — all export product! Also in Madeira are centres of excellence research, autonomous centres linked to prestigious European and American universities, where many researchers from all over the world work, which produce highly relevant scientific works. in the area of tourism, the sea is also relevant. The port of Funchal, in matters of cruises, again led all national ports in 2017 ; more than 750 000 passengers boarded on the 290 cruise scales. Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The sea must indeed be a national design, it must have a dimension to measure in a future strategy of Portugal. Portugal is much larger at sea than on land and this proportion should also be felt in the economy. Two examples of what Portugal must do. The International Register of Madeira Ships is a great bet of the Government of Madeira, which has been a success, a success not only for Madeira but also for the whole country. The Madeira International Register of Ships is already the third largest and most dynamic register in Europe and has more than 500 registered ships. We have already said this, but it is never too much to repeat: Mr. Minister of the Sea, look at the International Register of Madeira Ships as a national project, help to attribute all the conditions, legal, fiscal, and competitive, so that more ships are enrolled in this competitive register, which competes with countries of great tradition in this area, as is the case with Luxembourg and Malta. The Madeira International Business Centre (CINM) should also be part of this national strategy. It is a business centre in the Atlantic that serves to triangulate trade and investment relations between Europe, Africa and the Americas. It is a center that grows with great dynamic, a competitive center precisely due to its huge transparency and regulation; it is also a national project. That is why, Mr President, Mrs Minister and Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be united in this challenge, which is the sea, and never lose sight of a fact, which is historic: Portugal was always great when it betted on the sea. We have never looked, over the centuries, to the sea as a selfish idea, only for us, or even nationalist. For us, the sea unites, the sea serves to enrich Portugal and also the Portuguese. We have this huge challenge: to know how to take advantage of what we have, because if we don't, others will do it for us. Finally, Mr President, Mrs Minister and Mrs. Members, betting on the sea is to bet on the Portuguese geostrategy and geoeconomics. Portugal is not just a European country. Portugal is a Euro-Atlantic country and must claim, more than ever, that role in European institutions, and even more present the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union. Finally, there is the question of the Silk Route, which the Democratic Social Party has repeatedly brought to Parliament. Where is Portugal in this project of the Silk Route which is, at the moment, the most structural project in the world? The Social Democratic Party has given suggestions and has put this issue to the Portuguese Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u92	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u93	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The debate is almost at the end and we can say that at least no more entropy has been created in consensus on the importance of the sea economy for Portuguese GDP and for job creation and, in particular, for the strategic enhancement of the country. But there was a certain competition here about what was done by the previous government and the current government. I would say that there is a fact which speaks well of one's competence and the other's competence. It is because the previous government bought the boat, the boat « Portugal», and the current government cannot do what is obvious, which is what the boat was made for, which is to sail. That is, the boat does not sail with this government. So if we wanted to evaluate the competence of one government and another, I would say exactly that some buy the medium, buy the boat, while the others leave the boat stuck on any yard. [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] I therefore hope that the policy of the sea will not be in conflict and that the "Sentene of the sea" will have no responsibility here, because we want to continue to believe that. In fact, neither did I hear the Portuguese Communist Party speak in a patriotic and left-wing policy, they must have forgotten... The debate is so exciting that they must have forgotten. Mr Minister, there should be a situation plan, which is basically a great instrument of planning, to know where, when and in what circumstances you can do what, but that plan does not exist. That is, what is the beginning, the basis, so that we can implement the policies of the sea is not done. The PS still has the opportunity to intervene in this debate, perhaps at that time it can clarify this matter. There are also other things that have been left out. It is not only the question of the Beach of Victory, it is also the ferry connection between Madeira and the continent and the obligation of the Government of the Republic to guarantee territorial cohesion through that connection. The regional government almost wants to take on its own responsibility, while the Government of the Republic says nothing about it. however, I wanted to end by referring to a positive aspect. In fact, we want to see the country as a great international potential, as a large hub, connecting the ports to the railway, to the airport, to the motorways of the sea. We really want ports to be competitive and dynamic; we want to take advantage of the opportunities that are on the broad lines; we obviously want to take advantage of all the technological innovation potentials for sustainability with green shipping. But we need the Minister to be able to do it. As in the past, we have agreed on the big issues, we want to continue to agree, we need the Minister to bring here legislative instruments to implement, as it will indeed happen, because they have already announced tonnagetax and others. Announcements do not arrive, but when they do, the CDS will be responsible and, obviously, keeping its perspective on this matter in mind, it will agree. However, to make discussions that simply merely merely make announcements and not concreteizations take importance and even withdraw credibility. And we would like to be having another debate with announcements and realisations. We're still waiting. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u94	It wasn't very enthusiastic about that applause!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u95	Mr António Ventura has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Lara Martinho, demagogy and irresponsibility have limits. Notice one thing: Mrs Deputy was the representative of the Regional Government in the group that the PSD / CDS responsibility government created to implement the PREIT ( Third Island Economic Revitalization Plan )! And now the honourable Member says that the previous government refused the PRIIT? Oh, my God! This is a demagogy and enormous irresponsibility, Mrs. Who refused the PREIT was the PS, who here drew up the 2016, 2017 and 2018 budgets without a single cent to the port of Praia da Vitória! This is refusing! [[PSD applause.]] That is, it's a plan made in the old socialist way, to get money! And you have not yet proved that it is the opposite, because if it is not to draw money enter in the 2016 Budgets, 2017 and 2018 money for this port, which was not done. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]] Mr. Carlos César, you are the chief in charge! You were a list head for the Azores. You took on the fulfilment of the PRIIT, by the Government of the Republic, and did not comply! You lied to the Azorians, sir! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u97	There is no Member of another parliamentary group, and Mr Paulo Rios has the floor for one speech, in a continuation of the intervention of the PSD bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, what we have concluded — and this is a way of commending the Minister, for whom I have, as you know, personal and political esteem — is that the Minister is technically and politically competent, and today it was both.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u99	And that's bad?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u100	This is half a compliment!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u101	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u102	But the truth is, Mrs. Minister, that the Socialist Party has not been able to bring the issue of health to this House without being whipped. The Socialist Party cannot bring here the theme of education.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u103	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u104	The Socialist Party cannot bring the theme of culture here. The Socialist Party has fled to the sea. [[PSD laughter and applause.]] And he fled to the sea why? The Socialist Party has fled to the sea, because the sea is sexy,... [[Is the sea sexy?Oh, my God!]] [[PS laughter.]] [[Rises and applause from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u105	... because the sea is a comprehensive issue, where it is much more what unites us than what divides us, and therefore it is relatively easy to do the debate. But the truth is that the Minister — and this is part of the political skill — has also sheltered herself in some 'economy', in sustainable projects, and in a set of ten-year concepts and plans, which really makes it difficult to unionise what has been done. And I would remind the Government that we are approaching the end of the mandate, so this is the time to present results rather than proposals. The PSD, recognize yourself, what did you do? He did what was expected of a responsible opposition: he evaluated, indicated paths and expressed criticism. Look, he did much better than the partners you have, for whom today — they were random — it was the day of opposition. [[PSD laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u106	The sea is sexy! - stay for the story.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u107	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more entries, I give the floor, to close the debate, Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we have just heard during this afternoon was what we find absolutely clear, the confirmation that, fortunately for Portugal, this government has put the blue economy on the government agenda once and for all. And this really bothers our friends from PSD and CDS,... [[Don't bother, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u109	... that unfortunately appeared in this debate as the Old of the Rest on this matter of the economy of the sea. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I wanted to say that this statement that the PS has made in the context of the economy of the sea contrasts with what happened in the past, when PSD and CDS ruled the country. at that time there was no ambition, there was no vision, there were no goals, there was no strategic programming. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What we have today is totally the opposite of what you have done. There are four aspects that have been discussed in this House, especially by the Government and the Socialist Party, which demonstrate this statement from the economy of the sea with the Government of the Socialist Party. The first aspect has to do with the maritime-port strategic plan, which was widely discussed here. A maritime-port plan with investments of EUR 2500 million, with more than 80 % private financing. Moreover, this maritime-port plan allows something that is absolutely essential for Portugal, which is to confirm the internationalisation strategy of our economy and to ensure a strengthening of external demand in the contribution of our Product. It is an objective of the Socialist Party, it is a goal of the country and it was also a goal of the PSD, but, by the way, it is no longer at this time. The second aspect has to do with the new framework for the stimulus of the merchant navy. We all know that the merchant navy was abandoned by the PSD and the CDS, we all know that we lost our jobs, that we lost our fleet. Now, we were the Government of the Socialist Party, which launched a new framework to stimulate the merchant navy and, with that, we hope to recover in five years what has been lost in 40 years, whether as far as the fleet is concerned, whether it is as far as job creation is concerned. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u110	A third aspect, which has been widely mentioned here, has to do with encouraging the creation of new businesses and also, and very important, with an increase in support to add value to already existing businesses in the sea economy and which needed to be stimulated, such as fishing, aquaculture or even, as mentioned here by Mr. CDS, recreation nautical. That is what we have done over the past few years, and that is what we are doing, in order to ensure this statement from the sea economy, which is, from our point of view, absolutely essential. It was possible to do all of this by finding new action approaches, which were also mentioned here by the Socialist Government, in the speeches of the Minister, in particular in the simplification of the processes, in which it was mentioned, and very well, the Single Logistic Jane that is essential for the modernization of the ports, in the digitization and in the innovation of these matters, essential aspect to ensure such affirmation of the sea economy, which, unfortunately, had been lost throughout the PSD / CDS government and which, fortunately, with the governance of the Socialist Party and with this Ministry of the Sea, was able to recover and guarantee its dynamics. Finally, I would like to mention the new models of financing that are essential to ensure not only these large investments that are concerned but also that a clear link is made between the public and the private sector and that these investments come to the conclusion of the economy of the sea and of what our objectives are, which is to place the economy of the sea at the heart of the country's development and economic importance. That is what we have done and which clearly contrasts with what you have not done over the four years that you have had to send and define the strategy for the economy of the sea, and unfortunately that is what you have seen. They didn't, and the result was what we saw. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-12.u111	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the political debate on the sea economy and the maritime-port sector is thus concluded. We are grateful for the participation of the Minister and the Members. Members of the Government. I now announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting on Friday, which consists of the joint discussion of several legislative initiatives related to the topic of fires and forest protection which I begin to list according to its authorship: draft resolutions Nos 1254 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government compile and make available all legislative production for the 2017 forest fires at the electronic portals of government and public administration and take the necessary measures to convey information to citizens in their territories ( CDS-PP ), 1399 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government open a new period of applications for action 6.2.2 of PDR 2020 so that farmers affected by the October fires that did not apply can do so ( CDS-PP ) and 1444 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a mission unit for the structural reorganization of the operational sector of firefighters ( CDS-PP ) ; projects of lein.o 654 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the criminal framework for forest fire crime ( PAN), 656 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Includes the forest fire crime in the list of priority research crimes ( PAN) and 672 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the integration of municipal veterinary doctors as civil protection agents and creates an animal rescue and rescue team ( PAN) and draft resolution No 1455/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government replace the current Fire Risk Prediction Index ( RCM) in the Fire Management Mechanisms ( PAN ) ; projects of lein.o 776 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Exceptional arrangements for secondary fuel management bands ( CFP ), 812 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes criteria for compensation for the implementation of administrative services for the creation of fuel management bands and determines the responsibility for their implementation and maintenance by amending Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 of 28 June ( PCP ) and draft resolutions No 1247 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create, make available and keep up to date an electronic portal where information related to the responses created following the 2017 forest fires ( PCP ), 1446 / XIIII ( 3 ) is disclosed. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reopening of applications for support for victims of the 2017 forest fires, the establishment of an appropriate timetable for payment of support and the clarification and extension of the criteria used for supporting purposes ( CFP ), 1447 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — proposes measures to support family farming as a structural option for the defence and development of the rural world, in particular in areas affected by fires ( CFP ), and 1448 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — For a new civil protection policy ( PCP ) ; Bill No. 675 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendments to the Criminal Policy Framework Act and to the law defining the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2017 - 2019, considering the crime of forest fire as a crime of priority research ( BE ), and draft resolutions 1489 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assign priorities in forest processing for better fire protection ( BE) and 1490 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that firefighters entitled to remuneration under the DECIF receive these amounts directly ( BE ) ; Bill No 820 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Creates the independent technical observatory for analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory ( PSD ) and draft resolutions 1474 / III ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of information systems to support operational decision-making in the fight against forest fires ( PSD ), 1478 / XIIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a plan for the use of tracking machines in the fight against forest fires ( PSD ) and 1482/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an adaptation of forest fire protection ( PSD ) ; draft resolutions Nos 1463 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government disseminate information on fire response through a specific Internet site for this purpose and through other information access mechanisms ( PS ), e1488 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to be promoted within the framework of the forest fire prevention and control system ( PS ) ; draft resolutions 1492 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Opening of a new phase of applications for farmers affected by forest fires in October 2017 ( The Greens) and 1493 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Support for family agriculture as a way to ensure the management and maintenance of rural space ( The Greens ). At the end of the debate, the vote will take place. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing more to be dealt with, I declare the sitting closed. [[It was 17 hours and 25 minutes.]]
