ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Emília Santos will read the file. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the projects of lein.o 743 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Establishment of the minimum period of 120 days for the provision of digital forms of liability of the Tax Authority ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 744 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by creating the successive indignity of those convicted of exposure or abandonment or omission of a food obligation ( CDS-PP ), 745 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 25 / 2012 of 16 July, extending the dimension of the Vital Testament to the planning of old age, in addition to the disease situation ( CDS-PP ), 746 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by aggravating penalties and criminalizing a set of conducts that violate the rights of the elderly ( CDS-PP ), 747 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Prohibition of the marketing of disposable food utensils in plastics and provides for the transition to new materials and practices ( BE ), 748 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code and Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June approving the General Law on Public Works, restoring the value of additional work and compensatory rest ( PAN), 749 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by criminalizing new practices against particularly vulnerable persons ( PAN), 750 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates a special consumer protection scheme for the protection of elderly persons ( PAN), 751 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the prohibition on the production and marketing of detergents and cosmetics containing microplastics ( PAN), 752 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the non-use of disposable plastic dishes in certain sectors of the restoration ( PAN), 753 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates economic activity codes for leisurely travelling economic activities ( PS ), 754 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the obligation to provide consumers with an alternative to the distribution of disposable meal utensils in plastic in commercial events open to the public and in commercial establishments ( PCP ), 755 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixty-ninth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, amending the disability regime and its supply and adequacy of a set of legislation avulva to this new regime ( PSD ), 756 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Twenty-first amendment of Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May regulating the election of the President of the Republic, 16. the amendment to the Elections Act for the Assembly of the Republic, approved by Law No 14 / 79 of 16 May, 8. the amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of the holders of the Local Authorities, 7. the amendment to the Organic Law of the Referendum Regime, approved by Law No 15 -A / 98 of 3 April, and 3. the amendment to the Legal Regime of the Local Referendum, approved by Organic Law No 4 / 2000 of 24 August, adapting the electoral incapacity active to the new civil disability regime ( PSD ), and 757 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 38 / 2007 of 16 August approving the legal system for the evaluation of the quality of higher education ( BE ), which falls to 8. The draft resolutions Nos 1269 / XIII ( 3 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promptly define the policy guidelines for the negotiation of the Post-2020 Multiannual Financial Framework ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 1270 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote total decontamination of the third island ( PS ), 1271 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government an effective investment in the Lisbon Metropolitan and an expansion plan that truly serves the populations ( The Greens ), which goes down to 6. the Commission, 1272 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider and consider the need for and the possibility of creating an existing structure, or providing an existing capacity, resources and competence, which may give an integrated and cross-sectional response to people at risk or vulnerability, in particular with regard to the promotion and protection of the rights of older persons ( CDS-PP ), 1273 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the Assembly of the Republic proposed revision of the Civil Code ( CDS-PP ), 1274 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit the Plan of Action and Implementation of the National Strategy for Active and Healthy Aging 2017 - 2025 ( CDS-PP ), 1275 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By better conditions of access of the deaf population to television ( PCP ), 1276 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Proposals for measures to enhance and promote the basket of Gonçalo ( PCP ), 1277 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the status of informal caregiver until the end of the first half of 2018 ( CDS-PP ), 1278 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of the basket of Gonçalo, district and municipality of Guarda ( BE ), 1279 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Prohibition of the marketing of cosmetics with microplastics ( BE), 1280 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value the discipline of physical education in secondary education ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1281 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a working group with a view to the timing of measures aimed at the total accessibility of television content to the deaf community ( BE), 1282 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement the measures for the viability of the field of fun roaming undertakings provided for in Resolution No 80 / 2013 ( BE), 1283 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the accounting of all the time of service provided by Portuguese language teachers for the purposes of integration in the teaching career ( BE ), 1284 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concretization of the second phase of the revision of the reform regime anticipated by flexibility, eliminating double penalty for long-term pensioners ( BE), 1285 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by preserving and classifying the Algarve ( PS ) wetlands, which fall to 11. the Commission, 1286 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote studies on alternatives to the use of disposable plastic dishes, conduct awareness-raising campaigns to reduce their use and define a strategy for the gradual reduction of their use ( PSD ), 1287 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote television accessibility for the Portuguese deaf population ( PAN) and finally 1288 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Greece ( President of the HR ). I also refer to the withdrawal by BE of its draft law No 731 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Restores the value of additional work and compensatory rest, deepening the recovery of income and contributing to job creation, starting at 13. the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Emília Santos, for the work and great effort inherent in it. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will enter the agenda, which has as its first point the discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 523 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishment of a single national register and economic activity code(SEC) specific to the fun traveling economic activity called « entertainment roaming activity » ( PSD ) and 753 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates economic activity codes for leisurely travelling economic activities ( PS ) together with draft resolution No 1282 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement the measures for the viability of the field of fun roaming undertakings provided for in Resolution No 80/2013 ( BE). To begin the debate and present the PSD bill, Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u4	Mr President, first of all, I begin by congratulating Mr President and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is an ancient struggle, a struggle of entrepreneurs in the field of roaming entertainment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u5	PSD already talks in the fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u6	... to whom I comply with the strong participation and the great resilience they have had over time to resolve concrete matters in their area. It is the struggle for the creation of a single national register, recognizing its specificity and its cultural character; it is the struggle for a specific EAC, for a classification of economic activity for the sector; it is the struggle for the definition of more uniform criteria by the licensing entities; it is the struggle for more appropriate rules of invoicing and transport which is the dimension and concrete activity of these companies, including more appropriate technical solutions in the system of collection of tolls, for example; it is the struggle for the reassessment of VAT rates(value added tax) which are applied to tickets that give access to fun. Finally, it is a struggle that can be summed up in search of more social and fiscal justice, it is also largely the struggle of those who want to see the specificity of economic activity that belongs to the domain of culture, which is an integral part of Portugal's history, tradition and cultural heritage, and it is also a matter of self-esteem of these entrepreneurs and families, to which political power cannot fail to give a concrete answer. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] It is, as I said, an old struggle, whose justice the Assembly of the Republic finally recognized in May 2013, by unanimously approving a draft resolution to recommend the study and taking specific measures to support the sustainability and appreciation of the activity of these fun travelling companies. We are therefore proud to be the first to, after this Resolution,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u7	They didn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u8	... we resume the debate, presenting a bill that provides for the creation of a single national register called « national cultural alvará », conferring the capacity and credibility necessary for the exercise of the fun roaming activity recognizing its cultural character and the creation of a specific CEA for the activity called « fun roaming activity ». They are the old claims of the businessmen of the sector, and we pride ourselves on giving them the right answer. In the meantime, the Socialist Party, following this PSD bill, also presented a legislative initiative. Good! It does not exclude the PSD proposal, but complements it, covering other activities framed in the nature of itinerance. Therefore, we will not exclude it from the understanding that the entrepreneurs of this sector expect from this House, above all, the ability to find consensus and solutions that are more favourable to them, which will not fail to happen. I am sure that both proposals will be subject to discussion in the specialty, finding a final solution that best serves the economic activity of entrepreneurs and their families. As for the rest, what is missing from the Government's response. That is what we want with this initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u9	To present the PS bill, Mr Nuno Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet and greet workers and entrepreneurs in the field of roaming activities and to convey to them a message of support and determination at work which, together, we must continue to develop for legislative and regulatory measures appropriate to the specific characteristics of the companies in this sector. In addition to its particular characteristics, in particular its itinerary, the seasonality of the activity, the sustainability of the sector involves a balance between the cultural function and the maintenance of thousands of jobs in small businesses, many of them of a family character. The existence of a code of economic activity (CAE) for this segmental activity to identify the sector, allowing it to introduce discrimination measures that are intended to be positive. The attention and concern of the Socialist Party towards this sector led to the presentation of a draft resolution, already in 2013, so that the PSD Government and the CDS-PP proceed to the study and take urgent steps to give sustainability to the traveling fun sector. The recognition of the importance of the sector and the need for adequate responses and measures to the activity, which have not been given by the previous Government, is reflected in the initiatives of this parliamentary majority and the PS Government that have advanced, and is moving forward, with measures that have long been claimed by the sector. We speak with the sector and its representatives. The Socialist Party Government has set up a working group to study and propose specific measures. Tax and tax issues relating to the specificities of the roaming entertainment sector have already been provided for in the State Budget for 2018 with the allocation and application of the sector of the most favourable VAT scheme, which is a flat-rate scheme, recommending regulation with measures that will have to treat its subjects positively as appropriate and justified. With this draft law, we take another step and there will be the appropriate codes of activity, through three new subclasses that can integrate the reality of traveling economic activities. We realize that in this sector there is still work to be done by the different powers of the State and various bodies. It will be enough to look at the various subjects contained in the eight points of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic for the sector, adopted in 2013, so the challenge for all is to continue this work, from here on, at Parliamentary headquarters. The Socialist Party, credible by the measures already taken, reaffirms its commitment to dialogue, commitment and determination to support the field of tourist activities and take the possible and appropriate measures for its development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u11	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the representatives, families and entrepreneurs of this sector of activity present in the galleries. These roaming companies saw their activity severely punished by previous governments, following the austerity cartel, with measures such as the increase of VAT (tax on value added) from 6 % to 22 % in 2011 or the collection of tolls in the former SCUTs, which significantly cost their activity because they often have to take off from one place to another. This led to a series of protests, several days. The parties received the representatives of the sector, welcomed their proposals and this gave rise to a resolution which was unanimously adopted in this House in May 2013 and which contained a set of eight recommendations for the Government to solve the problems of this activity, which is important, in order to enable its sustainability. The history of these companies crosses with popular culture, with collective memory, associated with moments of leisure, family fun, the calendars of the romaria and popular parties. These demands that have led to a resolution are not the requirement of privileges, they are just the requirement of minimum conditions for working. They are family businesses, especially. The families of both the owners and the workers travel through the different localities, following this circuit of amusement parks. Therefore, it is a different activity, an activity that obliges a different treatment. This is what is required, which has been approved and, all these years, since 2013 has not yet been implemented. We had a new period of protests at the Assembly of the Republic, in November 2016, and the representatives of the activity claimed that the recommendations they had been approved were taken into practice, which apparently has not yet happened. Therefore, the eight recommendations, for us, are fair, make all the sense, following the principle that what is different must be treated differently. There are lessons in how this activity is regulated in other European countries our partners who can be welcomed and transposed into our legal order. The recommendation the Left Block makes today is that the Government will finally be able to carry out what has already been approved unanimously. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u13	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that this is not the first time we have discussed this matter. It comes from the time that Portugal had Zé, as the song we heard many times said, discussion that originated a draft resolution approved unanimously in this House. We were expecting the government to take the solution to the problem, since it is a matter of taxation and regulation, but I believe that it is also a good solution by voting in favour of us, as we will do, the various initiatives presented here in committee, so that we can choose the best way to help important economic activity. We are talking about small and micro-enterprises, many of them family members, many of them very relevant to the valorisation of a set of activities that normally have an influence on what we call 'the engine of the economy', particularly tourism. Who doesn't know a set of romaria and economic activities spread across the country that, through these companies, earn another dimension? It is necessary to provide space for legislative stability in fact and for this sector to develop without being systematically opposed to the State. I know that entrepreneurs want to comply with their tax obligations, I know that they want to move around the country safely, I know that they want to innovate in this sector by giving more security and quality to the various consumers of these products. I'm willing to talk like that, because I'm in a region where we have a 625-year-old free trade fair and that wouldn't be the same thing without this activity. Therefore, the parliamentary groups that present the initiatives under discussion have been doing well, we are available to discuss them and, once and for all, to provide instruments for this sector to fulfil its tax obligations, with its desire to generate more economy and more employment. If the government does not do so, it does not shock me and it seems reasonable to me that Parliament itself can do what the government does not want to do. Here we will be to listen carefully to what can be done, to extend, perhaps, the scope of the EAC, but essentially to give instruments so that the sector of fun activities does not die and, not dying, we are protecting a part of Portuguese culture and tradition, which is also relevant. That is what we want to support and, therefore, we will agree and we will vote in favour of all legislative initiatives. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u15	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the PCP, the first word is from greeting businessmen, workers, families around this sector, once again, marked presence in the galleries to follow this discussion, which is about their lives, about their work. over the years they were making their voice heard around a concrete problem which is meaningful in this sector and which, as has already been said, led the Assembly of the Republic, unanimously, to assume a resolution recommending several measures, which have already been mentioned, and which have never been summarized in the specific economic activity code or in the single national register with their respective targets. These matters are highlighted today, let us say so, but here has already been mentioned the progress that has been made in relation to VAT, although, as we wish to underline, there is much work to be done, many things to be made forward. As in 2013, today, in 2018, we can and should also state that if the political leaders, particularly in the ministries that protect the issues under discussion, had effectively fulfilled their role we would not have needed to have this discussion. That is, in a way, it is a bad sign that we have come here, it is a bad sign that we have to get to this point. Indeed, there are a number of concrete measures that could and should have been taken since 2013 by government officials. And even the proposals that are now put forward to be voted on and which will certainly not deserve anyone's disagreement, the more they were adopted five years ago, could have been implemented by the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u18	And, Mr. António Costa Silva, it is not true that the PSD was the first to put this question,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u19	Introducing a bill!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u20	... because already in this mandate, during the budgetary procedure, the debate was sparked by the CFP confronting the government with its responsibilities. In this way too, in some ways, we have contributed to concrete progress, particularly in the area of VAT, in the area of tax policy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the PCP, we reiterate, we reaffirm our willingness to support, to enable us to say this, in order to create conditions for an activity that is needed in villages, villages and cities, which is needed for people, who are part of their own identity, their culture, people note that, in fact, this activity is needed at fairs, romarias, finally at the important moments of their lives, as has already been mentioned here. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, both with regard to the decisions adopted, and with regard to what is to be taken forward in the executive plan, we hope that this time the claims will be answered. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u21	We will move on to the second item on today's agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1079 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotion and valuation of the Gonçalo basket ( Guarda ) ( PS ), 1276 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to enhance and promote the basket of Gonçalo ( PCP ) and 1278 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of Gonçalo basket in the district and county of Guarda ( BE ). To open the debate and present the PS draft resolution, Mr Santinho Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is more interior beyond the fires. I come to tell you about Gonçalo, baskets and baskets, art and creativity, old knowledge. Gonçalo is the largest rural parish of the municipality of Guarda and is situated on a slope, turned to Belmonte, where the greenhouse gives rise to the Cova da Beira. It's a unique and different village. It's the land of the baskets. This singularity is well noted in its social fabric, in the traditions of its people. It has always been a land of peasant-workers, or of workers-camponese, artists and craftsmen with skilled hands in the way of erecting baskets. This ancient art gradually became decadent with the death of the rural world, with migration in the 1960s. The basket had to do with our rurality, with the fairs, the parties and the romaria, with the canasters for cheese, the baskets for the vintages, the baskets for the fruit and the snacks, the scissors of the scissors, and the customers were people of the farm, who had misery and a hopeless life pushed force out of the Christmas tower. All the interior was manless first and then whole families. Depopulation never stopped again. On 25 April he arrived, with Gonçalo's basket in absolute decay. The improvement of social and labour conditions for workers leads employers to close workshops and collective redundancies. But the difficulties only strengthened unity and solidarity. On 10 October 1974, it was constituted the Cooperative Workers of Gonçalo, who had more than 150 cooperative workers, which well demonstrated the resilience of the Gonçalens and their love of land and profession. Talking about Gonçalo and the Gonçalo basket will always involve remembering the Cooperative as the almost final chapter of basket art, popular culture and work of many people. Almost final, yes, because we are still in time to recover, if we all want, at the local level, at the municipal level, at the government level. There are still baskets in Gonçalo. The country has changed a lot in recent years. This change is an opportunity, a challenge for Gonçalo and for the new generations of gonçalens. The baskets need to diversify production and supply, rethink new ways of flow and marketing, preserve the authentic brand of their work. In short, we need to innovate. But for this, they need help, institutional support, training, opening doors inside and outside. The appreciation of the interior must have a practical component, starting with the appreciation of the potentials, of the resources of the interior itself. Gonçalo's basket, for example. Gonzalen António Amaral prophesied one day: «The baskets can never die, our art is our identity». Gonçalo, baskets and baskets, art and culture, work and employment. To renew hope in this cradle of the Portuguese fine basket is to give real content to the causes, to the valorization of a land, of a region and of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u24	Google in Oeiras and Amazon in Porto? Why not? It's great for Portugal. But the interior cannot continue to be postponed and forgotten. There are so many goggles around this interior waiting for a decisive push. This is what they expect from the House of Democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u25	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group is not only associated with the need to value this tradition, this old office of the Gonçalo basket, as it presents an own initiative which, in our understanding, answers more substantive and difficult to resolve than those that can be resolved with mere certification and disclosure. The basket, in Gonçalo — as has already been mentioned — has already employed hundreds of people, hundreds of artisans, workers, and has also also fed a wide range of small farmers producing the vine. And that is perhaps where the problem began, taking into account the creation of the dependence of imported Vime, which made it impracticable the cultivation of the vine in the region, and in turn also made it difficult to continue production. This factor is, of course, associated with the other problems of impoverishment of the interior, particularly of the interior, and of dismantling of the national productive apparatus, a process that reaches the whole country, but that the interior is double-victim, with the expansion of the difficulties that are known in the districts and in the municipalities of the interior. Obviously it is useful to disseminate, promote, certify, as well as it is absolutely crucial to ensure the formation of new artisans so that an art, a craft does not lose or disappear, taking into account the difficulties in which it is found. But more than certifying, valuing and ensuring training, which, finally, are absolutely crucial aspects to ensure the continuity of art and its promotion as an economic activity and not only as a craftsmanship, it is also necessary to go to the root of the problem. We cannot continue to pretend that it is possible to promote a policy of decommissioning, impoverishment, dismantling of the productive apparatus, impoverishment of the interior and then, with small measures, to try to mend or value this or that craft. Therefore, this medal girl in the lapel, which only serves as an ornament to pretend that she is concerned about the inside, will not solve any of the problems that she intends to solve. Therefore, it is necessary to create, from an economic point of view, the sustainability of the activity, so that producers are able to become independent of the import of vime, and it is necessary to create the possibility of producing the vime in Gonçalo and in the Guard region, closing a true row that ends in the baskets, but that comes up, from the production of vime. This is the PCP project. We obviously value the other projects presented to the debate, because they essentially compete for the appreciation of Gonçalo's basket and its promotion as a product, but in this case, more than advertising, we need to create an economic activity with head, trunk and members, which feeds the people who want to live from it and that stimulates the creation and formation of new artisans. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u27	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Jorge Campos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Among us there has been little talk about traditional Portuguese culture, popular culture, and yet it resides in it a strong identity mark, a divergent logic whose valorization would certainly be a powerful lever of knowledge of ourselves and of promoting who we are for this outside world. Genuine popular culture does not make headlines, does not reach the noble time of televisions, does not attend social networks, but has deep roots, roots in which we recognize a common matrix. The basket, for example, whose origin dates back to the Castreja civilization, bears witness to the daily life of successive generations. In Gonçalo, small village of the municipality of Guarda, with just over 1000 inhabitants, it is still said today: «He who is not a basket knows how to make baskets here». There is still memory of the time the craftsmen worked on the floor—and they became hundreds—produced pieces of vime usefully at home, in commerce, in farming and even in fishing, but also produced with decorative and artistic purposes. They were parts sold a little across the country, from north to south. For a long time, this craftsmanship was the basis of Gonçalo's economy. Today, with the emptying of the rural world, the desertification of the interior and new market conditions, few baskets remain and those remaining have great difficulty in placing their products on the market, as well as in adapting them to the demands of urban and cosmopolitan consumers, attentive to tradition, but unaware of the meaning of this art. This means that the secular knowledge of a unique craftsmanship, certainly with useful value, but also with artistic relevance, are at risk. Now, the draft resolution of the Left Block goes precisely towards safeguarding and valuing Gonçalo basket, which, contrary to what happens to other artisanal productions, has never been the subject of certification. It is necessary to do so in order to have a future, but other measures are also necessary, with a view to the economic sustainability of this activity. in this sense, the Block of the Left proposes that the Assembly of the Republic recommend to the Government that, in collaboration with the local power, take measures with a view to the transmission of knowledge and the formation of new artisans, the study, promotion and dissemination of the art of working the vime, with a view to the consecration of Gonçalo basket as popular art and culture. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u29	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the Members who have presented the initiatives under discussion on behalf of the CDS, since more important than creating conditions for attracting investment and valuing the territories with a set of national policies is to preserve and protect traditional culture. Every time one of these elements is lost is part of the soul of the interior that dies and, normally, it is irrecoverable. Therefore, we congratulate the authors of these initiatives. I would like to say that there are, in fact, several solutions to this problem which must be based on the initiative of Members, but the first entities which, on this subject, must protect, encourage and create conditions are exactly the authorities, the local bodies, from the outset, the tourism regions and their regional entities. We have several examples — the Black Baroness of Bisalhães or the figures of Extremoz — that are considered immaterial heritage of Humanity, and this has, essentially, the basis of local initiatives, because it is also valuing, creating brand and protecting that — I apologize for pleonism — that way. And the fundamental thing is knowing-doing. If you lose the know-how, you lose everything else; if you can protect the know-how, you may still go in time to find ways to innovate, invest, recover, promote. Therefore, protecting the artisanal production units, involving the polytechnics, universities, schools, not only to find innovation and investment, but also to transmit this know-how, is fundamental. But it does not shock me — on the contrary — that Parliament, on these matters, can say anything and that the government can help to protect our culture and our traditions. If we look at the National Strategic Plan of Tourism, for example, the PENT is there a set of axes and plans for the protection of gastronomy and the landscape, but also of cultural heritage. So it may seem strange, but it is not. It has already been mentioned here the importance of Gonçalo's basket and its pioneering in the art of baskets and to work the vime. We have a community there that can, on its own, with what is inside and what is beyond the « window», find ways to generate wealth, fix population. So we agree and we will vote in favour of these initiatives, not without saying that sometimes we should look closer. And when I say 'near closer', I mean authorities, fregetal councils, universities, politicians and regional tourism entities, among others, who have the obligation — and that is why they were created — to preserve the cultural heritage, the local economy and the distinctive brands of the region, which, in essence, can bring value. I congratulate the honourable Members on the initiatives under discussion and, if we can start with the proximity and then extend to other entities, we will do a good job. We will be there to make our contribution and support these initiatives. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u31	You have the floor for one speech, Mr Carlos Peixoto, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would also like to begin by welcoming the undersigned Members of these initiatives and their parliamentary groups, stressing that all initiatives aimed at promoting, defending and valuing the traditions and cultural heritage of our territories — in this case, regional craftsmanship — deserve the support and praise of the PSD. Like other traditions, the baskets are works of art, are pieces that establish very strong emotional connections between the artisans and the consumer and are perhaps the tonic that best ensures the personality, character and fiber of these people and of these people from within. Safeguarding the interests of artisans and these products through certification, which is also proposed, and protecting the brand is perhaps the way that better qualifies the trade relationship between one party and the other and which avoids distortion and counterfeiting. What is intended is that the baskets of Gonçalo — once, as has already been said, a source of much employment and, today, with great difficulties — may be part of the National System of Qualification and Certification of Traditional Craft Productions (SNQCPAT), as in fact it already happens with the carpets of Arraiolos, with the aroma of Barcelos and with the edges of Castelo Branco or Viana do Castelo. But it is so peaceful that we should protect these people and that we should promote the promotion and dissemination of these products and this brand of water from Gonçalo that what we find strange is that, as far as these projects are concerned, they are all understandable and, in deliberative terms, they deserve total support, two of them have expressions and judgments loaded with ideology and prejudice, that old language that the right is guilty of everything and something else. I think we should, once and for all, give up that speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u33	Who would remember to say something like this in this debate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u34	We do not need to beat others to reach consensus. I could remind you here that, for example, in relation to local authorities, who have a fundamental role in these issues, as Mr Hélder Amaral said, that of Guarda, for example, in the last 37 years, did not have a dominant and predominant role in defending the craftsmen of Gonçalo. But we can say that the current City Hall of Guard has already announced the creation of a school of arts and crafts to protect this product and also the blankets of pope, who, for those who do not know, are those quadriculated blankets, browns and beges, who protect the shepherds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u35	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u36	I'm done now, Mr. President. Therefore, the City Council of Guard is developing a path, disseminating and transporting these products outside the borders of Guarda and the Country. That is what all of us must do in consensus. And we think very well that the authorities and the government support and support this mission. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u37	We moved on to the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 683 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Regularization of the legal status of children of foreign nationality admitted to State institutions or comparable ( BE ). To present the diploma, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block today brings to the debate a human rights issue. What is involved in this bill of the Left Block is the protection due to children of foreign citizens who have died, have disappeared or are in irregular condition in Portugal, children who, following a process of promotion and protection, the State places their guardians, in an institution, to defend the best interests of these children. However, if the same State that welcomes them in order to defend its best interests keeps them in a situation of irregularity, without creating conditions to overcome the obstacles arising from its affiliation, everything will be broken down. For Jaime, a son of Angolans who had been missing and who the State had placed in a SOS village, being tied to a situation of irregularity that I never wanted to mean to deprive him of the right to go with his colleagues on a school trip to Spain and be able to return. More, it means deprived of any support for social action at school. For Cesaria, daughter of Cape Verdean mother, who is irregular in Portugal, and Guinean father disappeared and who, following a process of promotion and protection, was institutionalized, not being able to have a residence permit means not being able to have support for the purchase of the wheelchair that he needs because of his multiple disability. These are not abstract cases; these are specific cases, of concrete children, who live in our country today. It is therefore about children in danger, because their forced irregularity powers all the marks of a history of life under the sign of violence and social and affective destruction and from there the immediate changes that the Left Block proposes to the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo. And it is a simple agileization of the allocation of residence permits to these children who are concerned, hence the very focused amendments that the Left Block proposes to the Nationality Act and the Legal Entrance, Permanence, Exit and Away Foreigners from the National Territory. It is human rights, ladies and gentlemen. Members : of the right of these children to empower themselves from a family history that imprisons them and deprives them of basic rights equal to that of all children; and of the right of these children to rewrite their history. And it is the duty of the State to be consistent in protecting the best interests of these children through a simple residence permit. Nothing more than that. The consensus of the political forces represented in this House on this proposal will be a very important expression of the will to effectively defend the human rights of all and all. Starting with these children, the weakest link in a chain that turns them on. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u39	For an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative here under discussion, brought by the Left Block, aims to speed up the regularization of the situation of foreign children in State institutions or similar institutions, precisely following promotion and protection processes. The Left Block today proposes amendments to the Nationality Act, to the Child and Youth Protection Act in Danger and also to the Legal Regime of Entry, Permanence, Exit and Removal of Foreigners from the National Territory, so that, as they say in their explanatory statement, «there is effective regularization of the legal status of children with foreign nationality». Proposals for amendments are intended precisely to issue residence permits and also to grant Portuguese nationality to minors born in Portugal and daughters of foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that this issue is not linear, nor is it consensual. It is important to bear in mind that there are children who are less than foreign in respect of whom, in the context of a process of promotion and protection (administrative or judicial) there is any of the danger situations provided for in the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo. It is also important to note that the institutionalization of the child was considered the most appropriate measure to remove this same danger, even because of the fact that it is irregularly found in Portuguese territory, but still ensuring the child's safety, health, training, education and development. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the legal framework currently in force, it is for the legal representatives to express, on behalf of the minor child, their will to request the issue of residence permit or the acquisition of Portuguese nationality. when we are in the presence of minors who are welcomed in state institutions or comparable as a result of processes of promotion and protection and who, for various reasons, maintain their irregular documentary situation, it seems reasonable and fair to us that these situations are the subject of reflection, in particular with regard to procedural agility, always in the best interests of the child. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u41	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you know, I took the liberty of, in 1. the Commission, contact an institution with children such as those who care so well for us, children and young people not totally deprived of protection in access to education and health care, for example. But what's not enough. This bill, in addition to questions of legal improvement that we will deal with in the specialty, compels us to think about who we are, as a community. We certainly do not want to "fill the mouth" with discussions about plans for this and for that and to say no to a specific regime of legalization of these irregular minors, which, as they are now in danger, are institutionalized. They are entrusted to the State, but remain without their defined situation. If this is unacceptable, in particular in the light of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which Portugal has signed, in accordance with Article 15 (1). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, the promotion and protection of the minors concerned is, must be, an ethical design of the Portuguese State. The criterion of blood, which unfortunately gains strength for the wrong Europe, is not, fortunately, our exclusive criterion of nationality and is a terrible violence in the case of these children. In both cases mentioned in Mr. José Manuel Pureza's intervention, the intention is that institutionalized children and young people, i.e. to guard the State, after being considered in danger, access a set of rights and opportunities, including health and schoolchildren. Indeed, the documentary regularization of any child clearly corresponds to its interest, and it is certain that the best interest of the child must be underlying the decisions that are made in relation to it. The State has nothing to gain with children in situations of social marginalization due to lack of identification documentation. The proposed informal procedure is useful, but first of all, I insist, it is ethical. To the specialty what's from the specialty. Today, it is time to say « yes». There are no ghost children. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u43	I would like to speak again to some Member, but that does not seem to be the case. [[Pause.]] Now, yes, that's the case. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u44	I'm sorry, Mr. President. It was a strict lapse on our part not in terms of timely registration. Firstly, I want to say that this is a relevant matter, it is a matter with some sensitivity, and I will not question, immediately at the start, the intention of the Left Block, nor that of Mr. José Manuel Pureza, by bringing this project to the Chamber. I must say, however, that, like anyone else, this is not a project that is free from doubts or reflections. It will certainly not be the most relevant, but it will still be important to better know this phenomenon, its exact size and its implications in Portuguese society. The Left Block says there are many or numerous cases—I am quoting color, I do not remember exactly the expression that is in the project. Now since it seems that the Portuguese State itself does not have the exact notion of this phenomenon or its dimension, it is important to know it, of course. On the other hand, we cannot get into the confusion of considering that, from the moment they are institutionalized, these children are in danger or more serious danger. Supposedly, this danger, or that threat, could somehow have ended, or is supposed to have ended, with the same institutionalization. I have just mentioned a number of doubts which may arise, which require reflection and which I think would even require some hearings and better knowledge of this matter in the field of specialty. We have often diverged about migration and regularisation and there is always a clear fear of the so-called 'call effect' and all that this implies. however, I know, I am obliged to know, and I say - here, in this case - and, from this point of view, we agree - there is a human rights issue that raises these various issues. These are minors, who often, regardless of specific cases, because it is always possible to have several specific cases, escape from terrible situations, or come from terrible situations, or are abandoned, for the most varied reasons. Today, in the light of European doctrine, in the light of European values, in the light of the consideration of human rights and the rights of children, it is not acceptable for children to remain in a situation in which they have no nationality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u46	This is a structural and fundamental concern that we understand and understand. Therefore, leaving, of course, an appeal for this matter to be deepened and assessed in the field of expertise and for us to evaluate the legal mechanisms that enable us to achieve the goal, what the CDS has to say at this time will comply with and follow the idea that no child who is already the victim of a situation in itself can be left in a state where there is no legal protection or nationality. Therefore, from this point of view, we will follow the proposal. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u47	Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative also has our call. We are talking about an issue that transcends an immigration problem, even though it is. But, indeed, this question is beyond that, that is, we are talking about children that the State has in charge precisely to protect them, to guarantee them protection. The question to be raised is whether such protection of the State does not, of course, result from the granting of a legal status to protect them. In other words, there is no protection that is compatible with the situation of irregularity and, therefore, the first duty of the State is to regulate these children before the law. Obviously, if these children are in charge of the state is because they lack family protection, it is because they lack it. Therefore, if this protection has failed, the State has assumed its responsibility, and must assume it at all levels, including by providing for the absence of initiative of other responsible, family members, for the situation of regularization. Therefore, it must be the State to take care of the situation of these children and not to allow, one day, when they no longer have their institutional protection, to fall into an irregular situation, subject to expulsion from the country. In fact, that doesn't make the slightest sense, it can't be. We have said, in general, that immigration is not a bad thing, it is a good thing. Evil is in the situation of illegality in which many immigrants find themselves. therefore that a fundamental task which the State must undertake is to regulate the people who are in Portugal and who, not having Portuguese nationality, or not wanting even to have Portuguese nationality, because they are nationals of another country and perfectly assume, naturally, that nationality, must have equal rights to Portuguese citizens, in constitutional and legal terms, in everything other than sovereignty functions which presuppose Portuguese nationality. We have always said that, in order to integrate immigrant citizens into Portuguese society, it is essential to promote their regularization. But in a situation like these, which goes further, for the most part, the State should provide regularization of foreign children who are in charge of it and take the necessary measures to facilitate and facilitate such regularization. This is an obvious way of defending the best interests of the child. Therefore, since we are planning to amend several structural legal diplomas, if we understand the need to hold some hearings, we have nothing against this, and, of course, we are facing an initiative with which we can only agree. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u49	There are no entries from other Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Block of Left, has the floor to close the debate of Bill No 683/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, it is necessary to register the House's consensus on an essential issue. As Mrs Moreira said, it is an ethical design that we are taking on here today, in front of all the people who are weakened by a life story that has already punished them in too much. In this respect, I would like to say that it is perhaps a decision that will have a reasonably limited reach, but only the children who are in that condition, only they, will be able to accurately identify the importance of the decision we are making here today. This is a decision that tries to definitely address the danger situation in which these children continue to be, despite their reception in institutions, because, of course, until they have their regularized situation, they are likely to be exposed to a number of irregularities. It is the same rights, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and I believe that the consensus that this discussion has shown is a very important step, which only exalts the one who is the attachment of this House to an effective defence of human rights that is not only a discourse of circumstance. [[Congratulations from BE and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u51	Mrs. Members, we turn to the next item on the agenda, which is from the examination of petition No 217 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the establishment of the National Children's Security Day ( APSI — Association for the Promotion of Child Safety ). For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We appreciate today the petition promoted by the Association for the Promotion of Child Security, which has come to request the Assembly of the Republic to establish the National Day of Child Security. First of all, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the petitioners, the Children's Security Promotion Association and the other citizens who have associated themselves with it, making 4337 signatories, and also to convey to them that, of course, the PSD accompanies the numerous concerns that are underlying this request. Someone, one day, will have said that children are the best in the world—and they are themselves—and taking care of children, taking care of their safety, is taking care of the world, is caring for the best that the world has. Caring for the safety of children is to take care of the future and it is a duty which collectively imposes on all of us and which should mobilize society. Portugal has adopted and ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child for more than 25 years and therefore we are globally linked to the protection and protection of the rights of children. We know that accidents are the main cause of death, illness and disability in adolescents and children and we are absolutely conscious of the need to permanently reduce the risks of accidents with children and their consequences. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u53	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, none of this will be done alone, with unnecessary measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u55	This requires an integrated view, always with the focus on children's safety, from the legislation for toys to the design of buildings and pools, to the planning of public leisure spaces, to road safety in the transport of children and much more. We believe, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, in fact, will require greater social awareness of this phenomenon. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Association for the Promotion of Child Security, which in 2017 informally celebrated the National Day of Child Security on May 23, which is exactly the day they request for this purpose. They did it as a genuine civil society movement and contributed to greater visibility and understanding of this problem, regardless of the institution of that day, which, of course, has much value. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u56	Mrs Sofia Araújo of the PS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the petitioners of this petition, whose first subscriber is the Association for the Promotion of Child Security, who was pleased to be heard and whose opinion I was rapporteur. throughout its development, children will be able to do more and more things with more insight. Your world will expand and go beyond the limits of home, backyard, daycare and, progressively, the frequent risks of accidents, starting inside the house, also occur abroad and elsewhere in the outdoors. Some prevention measures used in the first years of life are thus no longer sufficient and prohibit usefully if children do not understand the reasons. In addition, family surveillance is no longer so close and constant. however, and even knowing the rules, when the curiosity is greater, the child has difficulty controlling its impulse to move, to prove, to run after the balls. Therefore, throughout this learning, it is important and fundamental to find solutions to make your day-to-day both safer and stimulating, not limiting new experiences and promoting the progressive development of your autonomy. We know that the main causes of accidents with children and adolescents are road accidents, which cause the greatest number of deaths, but also drownings, poisonings, burns and falls, and there are still other causes, less frequent, such as suffocation, strangulation, bites of animals and natural disasters. however, in most cases, accidents with children and adolescents can be avoided. Knowing the causes and assessing their impact, both in the present and in the future, are fundamental aspects in their prevention. Controlling accidents is the only way to reduce physical and emotional consequences, many of them irreversible, and to reduce infant mortality. Although, unfortunately, it is not possible to anticipate every moment, and therefore to avoid all accidents, to know their mechanisms allows to anticipate their possibility and to act beforehand to reduce the risk. If we do so permanently, we will be able to control this drama and make our children live longer and better for many years, without having to bear the consequences and inability that remain for them all their life. Promoting and raising awareness, putting emphasis on the importance of adopting healthy choices and habits that promote child safety is essential. Knowing the risks, creating safe environments and minimizing accidents is a responsibility for all of us, and it is a constant concern of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for the importance of security as an essential right of children. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u58	Mrs Sandra Cunha, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block starts by greeting the petitioners and their willingness to bring this proposal to plenary. Child safety is, of course, a matter of the most vital importance to children, families and society as a whole and, since it is a matter of the greatest importance, the Left Block has not gone beyond everything that contributes to the safety and the full and are the development of children. Even today, we are debating a bill tabled by the Left Block, which ensures that the maximum "no illegal child" is a reality that guarantees children of foreign nationality who are in custody of the State the same protection and security conditions granted to other children. in the same way, it has also recently been adopted, with the favourable votes of all parliamentary groups, with the exception of the CDS, which voted against, an initiative of the Left Block, closely related to the matter of this petition, which recommends that the reports on the implementation in Portugal of the Convention on the Rights of the Children be made known to the Assembly of the Republic so that they can be discussed, with knowledge, ways to deepen the implementation of this Convention. But because the petition that is now being discussed directly concerns accidents that affect the safety and health of thousands of children on a daily basis, we must take up these concrete problems with the necessary frontality, in addition to ensuring, with concrete actions also, the deepening of the safety of our children on a daily basis. This petition aims to create the day of child security, a symbolic measure to put this matter on the agenda. The institution of an evocative day does not appear as the most efficient or fastest way to improve or guarantee the necessary security and protection conditions, but we must take advantage of these initiatives to make serious reflection and consequent action. These are matters which should call for the continued action of the Government to raise awareness, information and education, but also for monitoring, in the area of child safety, in its most varied dimensions, from road accidents to accidents in other contexts, as well as, for example, the dangers that the Internet ends or to exposure to misleading or dangerous behaviours or also to the conditions of the various infrastructures that children host. We are sensitive to this request, which does not end us as an end in itself, but which has virtues that must be taken advantage of by the government and by the legislative power. The Left Block shall not fail to assume its responsibilities with regard to the deepening of the safety and protection of children. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u60	Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would like to begin by complimenting the petitioners and also by complimenting the Association for the Promotion of Child Security, which today call us here to reflect on matters of child security. The concerns that bring us with this petition, in particular the need to raise awareness, educate and intervene to prevent accidents with children and young people, ensuring better safety conditions in various scenarios, are a matter that deserves the attention of the CFP. in this petition, they tell us about issues related to road accidents, situations in which the safety rules necessary for a child are not guarded when it is transported in cars and of risk situations in proximity to pools or tanks. It is important, indeed, that situations of accident risk — whether they are at home, in transport, in places close to water, at school, in places of sport, recreation or leisure — and, in particular, situations with serious consequences for children are guarded and prevented by their own families, by other actors responsible for children, but also by public entities, and the path of awareness, education and information on child prevention and safety procedures seems to us to be an appropriate solution. At the same time, it is also important to know the reasons that lead to situations of greater exposure to the risk or to lower protection of children, since this knowledge would also allow for planning interventions at the source of the problem. These are often situations that are not disconnected from the realities or family experiences or even from the lack of human resources in public spaces. For example, the shortage of operational assistants in schools increases the possibility of risk situations for children. however, these risk situations may also be due to the physical conditions of the spaces themselves where the children are and where they circulate. We understand that conditions should be created for the integral development of children, which also involves ensuring their safety in various dimensions of their lives, whether in the fulfilment of fundamental rights, whether in the spaces and environments they attend or in the materials and equipment they use. For harmonious growth, all children should be guaranteed the right to protection and special care, the right to education, education and health, housing, food, clothing, the right to culture, sport and occupation of leisure time, the right to security and physical integrity, love, affection, respect for their own identity, difference and social dignity. The subject which the petitioners bring to us today deserves our attention. We will accompany the work that is being done, in order to better protect children, so that they can grow up and play happily and safely. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u62	For an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Of course it was by chance that the interventions that preceded me were made by Mrs Deputies, so I am the first Member to speak on this matter. Child security is not just about mothers and parents, nor is it only about politicians and the state, it is about all of us and civil society. I would like to point out that it is never too much to congratulate the intervention of the Association for the Promotion of Child Safety, which, more than 20 years ago, with the means available to it, has had an extraordinary action to promote, educate, promote and alert children to the importance of child safety, and the presentation of this petition is the realization of this concern. This association has drawn attention to the problems associated with road accidents and I believe that this year more warrants this concern, even because the data we have indicate an increase in road sinequality. Although data are not yet fully available — therefore, we do not know to what extent children have been affected — we already have some who realize that accidents involving children occur more in urban than rural areas, that there are more traffic accidents than other types of road accidents, which affect more children under five years of age, which occur more in August and also occur more on Sundays. All these data tell us that it is important that this matter be worked and studied, hence the relevance of the suggestion to establish a day dedicated to this issue. But I'll talk about it later. The Association not only alerts to problems involving road safety, there are also all issues related to architecture and accidents and which are deeply related to structural, urban, construction and the way we see our cities. In addition, as it is obvious from the tourism point of view, we are in a country that has a large coast, where the climate is conducive to drowning, which affects many children, so also for these cases it is essential to have an important pedagogy and work. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we all — and I am sure that we all agree — recognize the importance of associations such as this, which was the promoter of this petition and which has developed an extremely important action. With regard to the specific object of this petition, which is the creation of one day — it is proposed on May 23 — that it marks child safety, we understand that it is positive and that the best way to do it is precisely how the Association has already done, which is to start celebrating that day, and already has done so in 2017. Certainly, extending this commemoration and celebration will be an indisputable matter, because it is a positive fact with which we should all welcome it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u64	We turn to the fifth item on the agenda, which is also an assessment of a petition. This is petition No 309 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request that the special pension supplement allocated to combatants be replaced by the anticipation of the reform ( Inácio Rodrigues da Silva et al.). Mr Diogo León, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would, of course, like to begin by commending the petitioners for bringing to the light of Parliament expectations regarding the valorization of the former combatants of our colonial war. We also thank the petitioners indirectly for giving us, in particular the Socialist Party's bench, a concrete reason to invoke here also the name of the Saudi MP and captain of April Junior Marques, also the former Ultramar fighter, and who, for many years, accompanied with enormous dedication, on behalf of the Socialist Party, here in the Assembly of the Republic, issues such as those brought to us today. [[Congratulations from the PS and the CDS-PP Member João Rebelo.]] The Court of History, in a democratic country, meets in debates, in personal memories, in the academy or in the collective memory of a people. If, politically, the PS Parliamentary Group strongly condemns colonial war, we are realistic in recognizing the effort and dignity of those who blocked it and in recognizing the former combatants as legitimate creditors of national justice and reparation. The PS Parliamentary Group considers that the result of Law No. 3 / 2009 of 13 January was possible at that time to seek to adapt the financial resources of the Republic to fair compensation to each individual who served the military institution in the Overseas during the years of war. It was a pact between the sustainability of a commitment by the Portuguese State and the legitimate compensation of the former citizen. We know, in fact, that this compensation will never be expressed only in numbers, values, material balances. The effort, the delivery, dedication, the risk, the danger, the abandonment of youth, the marks in physical and mental health, finally, the service to Portugal, which, as the venerable oath says, is made even with the sacrifice of life itself, has no price, but has, yes, a recognized value.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u67	And it is the respect for the value of the generation that fought in the old colonies that leads us to admit, to debate, to reflect better, together with the other parties and the other political forces of the Assembly of the Republic, on the merit of the proposals signed by the petitioners and, eventually, others that make us collectively in the evaluation of a more general view than the country does today by its former combatants, for example in important areas such as improving the care network for post-traumatic stress, seeking to provide proper follow-up and greater well-being to ex-combatants and their families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u68	Mr Pedro Roque of the PSD also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, it is necessary to address a greeting to the petitioners and in them, symbolically, to honor the former combatants, not because of the violence or fear that they may have had to generate or because of the casualties that they have inflicted on the then enemy, but rather because of the sacrifices they have made, for what they have suffered and for the values they have linked us, as well as by their example as builders of this building that is all of us and that is called Portugal. "It looks like the war that doesn't go in it" — PÃ©ro told us, quoted by Erasmus, and they also say the petitioners, and well! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this petition specifically calls on the Portuguese State to give full recognition of its valuable services and sacrifices and to legislate in order, among other things, that the special pension supplement, however converted into special pension supplement, should be replaced by the advance of the retirement age up to five years, taking into account the time of military service provided under special difficulties or danger. However, justice is not at stake in a recognition that the former combatants are creditors and that everyone in Portuguese society should, without exception, have to have. The question, with the best view, is that the proposal submitted by the petitioners meets other benefits already contained in Law No 9 / 2002 of 11 February 2002 and other legislation, including the count of military service time without payment of quotas. But under the budget of the State in force, it is already expected that the general recognition and full counting of compulsory military service time will include a significant part of the request for this request and that it should be regulated shortly. We are faced with one of those situations in which justice, recognition and merit of the petitioner may collide with the effects, many of them retroactive, or call into question the legal security of the social security systems and their financial sustainability, so it is important that any initiatives, which seek to support the applicant in the petition, are well studied financially, in order not to compromise the social security systems covered. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u70	Mr Vasconcelos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I welcome the petitioners here present who have submitted a petition for discussion, in order to consider the military service provided in the former colonies, under special conditions of difficulty or danger, in time of reform. As it is known, Law No 9 / 2002, which was regulated in April 2004, established the legal regime for periods of military service of former combatants for retirement and reform purposes. The regulation of the so-called « special pension supplement law », at the time of the Government of Durão Barroso and by the hand of the Minister of Defense, Paulo Portas, was no more than a kind of « marriage to the poor», in this case the former combatants mobilized for the war theatres in the old colonies, as it is known, an unfair and criminal war perpetrated by the fascist regime. The overwhelming majority of these former soldiers, who were violently removed from their families and their parks jobs in agriculture, industry and other occupations, taking very low wages, also received poor pensions. the government of the time recalls the application of such a « marriage to the poor ». Each former fighter, already retired, would receive an annual supplement, taking into account the time of military service provided under dangerous conditions, of 75 €, 100 € or 150 euros, and many others received nothing. The law, in addition to covering the former military mobilized to the territories of Angola, Guinea and Mozambique, began to contemplate the former military who were imprisoned in the territories of Goa, Damão and Diu, when the troops of the Indian Union occupied this territory, and also the military who were in Timor, from April 25 and until the end of the presence of the Portuguese Armed Forces in this territory. It is no longer curious and even strange the moment of the regulation of this law, precisely when the recent invasion of Iraq was still fresh in the spring of 2003 by the Lajes Summit on 16 March of that year, the summit of shame and war and whose patronage was Prime Minister Durão Barroso, who supported and endorsed a criminal war, to the wake of the United Nations and based on a monstrous lie, as it is known. What the government of the time tried to do was to create a climate of support and to silence the increasingly recriminal voices of this war of destruction, this shameful summit, which incriminated the Portuguese Government. Even today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are suffering these consequences. Returning to the petition in question, may indeed be legitimate, the purposes of the petitioners, but, for the Left Block, the most important is that all and all, regardless of whether or not they are military, turn to enjoy a dignified reform, according to, taking into account, effectively, their service and their specificities. For this, the Left Block will certainly be willing to collaborate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u72	For an intervention, Mr Jorge Machado now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bench of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party begins, of course, by welcoming the petitioners, the more than 4600 people who have signed this petition, who, in essence, request consideration of the military service provided in the former colonies, under special conditions of difficulty and in danger, during the time of reform and for the purpose of contributing career. The former combatants request that this same period be accounted for and that there be a special pension supplement, and list the legislation: Law No. 9 / 2002 replied in some way to an expectation created, but then it was cheated, as the petitioners say, with the publication of Decree-Law No. 160 / 2004, of the authorship of the Minister of Defense Paulo Portas, at the time of the Government Durão Barroso / Paulo Portas, who, according to the petitioners, and I quote, "(...) deviated its principles at all, in particular the form of calculation(...)". It must therefore be considered and denounced here, because, it is important to say, the law was published at the end of the mandate of the Government of Antonio Guterres and the regulation at the end of the mandate of the 15th Constitutional Government, the Government Durão Barros / Paulo Portas, i.e. the publication took place at a time when, soon thereafter, an electoral campaign took place in which the CDS used and abused the regulation as an instrument of campaign and propaganda, regulation which, according to what the petitioners who now write to us, had totally reversed what was the objective of the law. Therefore, today we have a new law, which has been cleaned up in the meantime, Law No. 3 / 2009, which has had some considerations but that petitioners understand that they have not yet resolved the problem at all. The CFP Parliamentary Group naturally takes these problems into account. At the state budget, the CFP's Parliamentary Group presented a legislative initiative — it was mentioned here by Mr Pedro Roque, of the PSD bench, although not mentioned the authorship — which actually envisaged the prospect of the whole time devoted to compulsory military service as a contribution career. This is an important contribution to the resolution of some of the problems identified here, but the CFP Parliamentary Group is, of course, available to further analyse this matter and, if there is a need for legislative amendments, also to take action in this regard. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u74	Mr Rebelo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words go to the 4620 petitioners who have subscribed to the petition that is being discussed today in plenary, in the person of the first subscriber, Inácio Rodrigues da Silva, greeting them for bringing the debate a very interesting theme and that much participation has taken place in my party, contrary to what has been said here by the two speakers who spoke earlier, the Members of the PCP and the Block. I would like to recall that the bill of time for the former combatants was introduced by the CDS in 2000 and was passed only with the votes of the Socialist Party and the PSD. The gentlemen. Members voted against this proposal, and I would like to remember that.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u76	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u77	Therefore, the law was made by proposal of the CDS. I would also like to recall that the amendments referred to by Mr Vasconcelos on the values of the supplement and the special supplement approved by that law were adopted in 2009 by the Socialist Party, not by the CDS or PSD. So I would like to remember this, too. [[It's no good, it's no good!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u78	Regarding the use of this theme in the election campaign, of course we did, because it was thanks to the CDS that this happened. But is the country not full of posters from the PCP and the Block saying "we have achieved this in the State budgets"? Oh, my God! [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u79	Aren't you also fighting for what you think they did well in the State budgets? Oh, my God! They come here now with this absolutely hypocritical conversation, saying that we cannot defend what we have done! We did this, and we did very well, we were the first to bring these issues to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u81	You disenchanted the law! It was fraud!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u82	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for God's sake! They would vote in favour of these amendments and of the laws we have tabled, and in that case they would have some moral to come here to present proposals. Mr President, returning to the petition, on the ideas it proposes, I would say that some are already enshrined in the legislation, and therefore are redundant in what is proposed, that others, on the recalculation of the pension, the re-counting of time based on the provision of military service, could bring a very strong increase in social security costs and the General Tax Office and there is one that has to do with the possibility of no longer having a pension supplement, in which the petitioners think it is very low and are quite right. This pension supplement in 2002 only came into force in 2005 because, I would like to recall, Dr. Jorge Sampaio dissolved Parliament when there was a stable majority. I'd just like to remember that.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u83	Stable is that it wasn't, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u84	We continued to work and took two years to certify the process, because the army files were on paper and it was during that government that were digitized. It was also a great contribution to the moralization of this process, which had not been done by anyone. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this subject, I am very proud of the work that was done at that time by the Government of Dr. Durão Barroso and Dr. Paulo Portas. I remember the excellent work that has been done in this area. I would like to end by saying that, in relation to the possibility that is advanced here, to end the supplement and the supplement, exchanging it by counting the time that was made in the Ultramar, by the former combatants, has a problem: when we passed the law in 2002, the overwhelming majority of the former combatants would have their period of reform in 2015, 2016 or 2017, with such 65 years. at this time, changing the age that already allows for reform and not having that supplement — as has been said by the President of the League of Combatants, the law of 2009 by the Government of José Socrates, is indeed and I am quoting a « law of truce» — to change the misery that is enshrined in this law by counting time can harm the former combatants in this respect. at this moment, when there is already greater fiscal consolidation, which began in 2014, we are available to think about new models, but, in fact, this petition has the problem of talking about many things, of talking about some that are already realized, some new ones.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u85	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u86	I believe that the National Defence Commission could, through the working group that has been established for some time, take a look at this issue, collecting new information from the petitioners and thus working on possible amendments. I think this contribution is important and can be used to improve current legislation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u87	Mrs. Members, completed the assessment of petition No 309 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), we finish the agenda...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u88	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to speak on this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u89	Mr President, I will give you the floor, but I regret that registration has not been made in a more timely manner. You have the floor, Mr President, in the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For a question of clarification and fairness in the debate, I wanted to say that Law No 9 / 2002, which Mr Rebello referred to, was adopted unanimously in the Assembly of the Republic and did not have the votes against the benches which he referred to.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u91	You've fooled yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u92	I would also like to reiterate that you are proud of the work done, but the 4620 people who have subscribed to the petition do not agree with you in this analysis. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u93	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-31.u94	Mrs. Members, I believe that the assessment of petition No 309 / XIII is now completed ( 2 ). ( a ) and I can announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, beginning at 3 p.m., of which the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister is under Article 224 ( b ) ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. I should also like to inform the House that today, from 17 hours to 30 minutes, there will be a memorial ceremony in Parliament of the Holocaust Memory Day, which will first include the opening of two exhibitions in the corridors of the Nobre and, subsequently, of interventions in the Hall of Nobre. in the end, the film Treblinka, presented by his director, Sérgio Tréfaut. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing more to be dealt with, I declare the sitting closed. [[It was 16 hours and 50 minutes.]]
