ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. We have a number of points today, but before we start the work, I will give the floor to Mr Emília Santos to take up an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will then be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members of the Bureau gave an opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the suspension of Mr Luís Soares ( PS )'s term of office, elected by the Braga electoral circle, and its replacement by Palmira Maciel Fernandes Costa, only on 19 October 2018, limiting itself to the period of the day previously indicated and ending at the end of the designated day, being the opinion that the suspension fulfils the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The first item on the agenda refers to the general discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 1825 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government immediately adopt all the procedures and measures necessary for the construction, within the shortest possible time, of the new facilities of the Paediatric Center of the University Hospital Center of São João, in Porto, and 1702 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government unlock the construction of the new Pediatric Wing of the Hospital de São João ( Porto ). To open the debate and present the draft resolution of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Vales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we can make a difference, today we can take a decisive step to honor the name of this Parliament before the children and families of Portugal. This initiative is not just a draft resolution, it is not just a recommendation, adding to so many others, more or less complied with by successive governments, to the taste of their current conveniences. what we are dealing with here is to solve a serious and very serious problem, a problem that has to do with children treated in the hospital of São João, especially those who suffer from cancer and who are treated under humanly outraged and even miserable conditions, as it has for months recognized the ultimate responsibility of that institution of the SNS ( National Health System ). Mrs. Members, there is no other way of qualifying the fact that these children, although highly fragile, have to undergo chemotherapy treatments in totally inappropriate places. These children have been waiting for a decade for facilities where they can be treated with a minimum of decency. The parents of these children, who already suffer so much from the disease that has reached their loved ones, are obliged to submit their children to conditions of unworthy treatment in any civilized country. And the health professionals at the hospital of São João, whose self-denial is never to highlight, as much as they want to help, simply do not have suitable facilities to work, do not have a well-equipped structure and with the conditions necessary to provide quality health care. Mr. President, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: It is true that the government promised last April that the construction of the new pediatric wing of the hospital in São João would move forward in that month. It's been half a year! It is also true that in June 2017 the then president of ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ) and current Minister of Health signed a memorandum of understanding with São João for the construction of the Integrated Paediatric Center in that hospital unit, in which the work was expected to start in October of that year and would be completed in 2020. It's been a year and a half, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! But now, it is important to resolve this situation quickly, in fact corresponding to the appeal that Mr President of the Republic himself made last summer. The way in which the Government has chosen to launch a competitive procedure for a new project is not the fastest or most appropriate way to solve the problem. This path starts with all the procedures that allow the immediate construction of these new facilities, taking advantage of and adapting a project that already exists, so that the pediatric wing of São João can enter into operation as soon as possible. This PSD initiative stems from a serious situation that can even be qualified as exceptional, and therefore also requires exceptional and immediate measures to complete the works of Saint John within two years. In order to achieve this objective, the PSD considers that the Government should consider the adoption of the direct adjustment procedure, both as regards the update of the design project and for the construction of these facilities. We also propose that the Government ensure decent treatment for children while these new facilities are not in operation. Today, it doesn't matter what was done or not done in the past. Today, it doesn't matter what passes don't solve any problems. The PSD therefore makes a point of appeal to the other parliamentary groups to leave the ideological and party issues aside and to look, once and for all, at another ideology: that of the children. The adoption of the draft resolutions under discussion today will without doubt constitute the guarantee that it is worth making politics in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u5	Having no requests for clarification, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor to present the draft resolution of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The dramatic conditions in which children with cancer problems and their parents are treated in the hospital of São João deserved an urgent and determined response from the CFP. The CFP presented draft resolutions, put written questions to the Government and questioned the Minister of Health at the moment, requesting his coming to the Commission. We placed in the different stages of our intervention the problem that these children live and demand an urgent response from the government to unlock the construction of the pediatric wing of the hospital of São João. After a lot of pressure and insistence, the government, late in the day, published the office of extension of charges that unlocks the process. It should be noted that the hospital already had 19, 8 million euros of the 23, 8 million euros needed. Thus, the problem was never the existence or not of money for the work, but only an authorization to use the money already allocated for the pediatric wing. Published the portal, it is urgent to determine the use of the existing architectural project, with the necessary adaptations, and to advance with the necessary authorizations for the work to move forward quickly. The CFP therefore submits a draft resolution for the Government to issue urgently all the necessary administrative acts and procedures to initiate the construction process of the new pediatric wing. Having said this, we cannot but say that this distressed process of the construction of the pediatric wing has a history and is responsible. If it is true that the PS Government has responded late, it is true that the PSD and CDS have heavy responsibilities in delaying the construction of the pediatric wing. Because of the previous PSD / CDS-PP government, the responsibility for the construction of the pediatric wing was thrown into an association of mechanics and the latter associated economic interests and a group of the large distribution that wanted to build a large area on the grounds of the hospital of São João. All this project, supported by figures such as Maria Cavaco Silva and blessed by ministers such as Carlos Moedas, PSD, and Mota Soares, CDS, failed, failed. As is said in Port, « go to Battle ». The PSD and CDS have never solved the problem, so they are, yes, responsible for the delay in the construction of the pediatric wing. [[PSD protests.]] The idea of deresponsibility of the State was a disastrous ideological option of the PSD and CDS, which was negatively reflected in the quality of life of these children.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u7	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u8	Now, and without any embarrassment, the PSD presents a draft resolution that provides a 24-month deadline for the completion of the work, a time limit that can be impossible to carry out, also wanting the work to be done by direct adjustment, i.e. without public tender, a solution that the PSD knows very well to be of dubious legality. It is appropriate to say that, in order to wash your face, to stay well in the photograph, after all the crap you did, it is worth everything and "a pair of boots" to try to fool these children and their parents. [[PCP applause.]] The CFP does not engage in illegalities or promises that are not realistic. The CFP requires the Government to act and take all necessary measures to ensure that the construction of the hospital is a reality as soon as possible. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u9	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The construction of the pediatric wing of the hospital of São João, in Porto, is an absolute necessity, not from now on, but from at least 10 years ago. We in the Left Block do not want a National Health Service where children do not have guaranteed conditions of dignity, comfort and privacy in their treatments.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u12	But during all this time, during at least 10 years in which the construction of the pediatric wing is an identified need, what has been done was to expose children with cancer to the conditions that the current President of the Board of Directors has classified as 'poorable'. And it is unacceptable that this has happened for 10 years! It is unacceptable that the PSD/CDS-PP government has made these children and their parents wait for four years. Steps Rabbit went there twice, throw two stones at the beginning of the work, never had ever put a penny to do this work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u13	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u14	He has delegated to the so-called "mecenate" and to a so-called "mecenate association" the responsibility of doing this work, because this association tried to sell hospital land to place a commercial area there. This association had no money to do the work, collected 500 000 euros for a budgeted work in more than 20 million euros. The PSD, the CDS-PP and its government have enjoined the whole country and have mainly deceived the users of the hospital of São João. But it is also unacceptable for the Government of the Socialist Party to drag the process. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u15	The money was promised on June 1, 2017, transferred to the hospital account at the end of 2017, but without permission to be moved. Only now, in September 2018, was published an order to authorize the Board of Directors of the Hospital Center of São João to launch a competitive procedure for the design of a new pediatric wing project. As I said at the beginning of this intervention, the new pediatric wing of the hospital of São João is an absolute and urgent need. The Left Block therefore presented a legislative initiative in April this year recommending the immediate release of nearly EUR 20 million on the hospital account. We also defend that, immediately, three urgent measures are taken, namely: authorization of money to improve current conditions and ensure as much quality and comfort as possible, while the work is not completed; adaptation of the project of architecture of the hospital so that the whole process is faster, something that the Board of Directors is doing, that is, it is not launching a new project, it is adapting the project that already exists; and ensuring the authorization of mobilisation of about 20 million euros that are already in the hospital account, so that they can be used as soon as the project is reviewed and to launch the work immediately. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that tomorrow will be discussed a bill of the Left Block that can help, and much, to facilitate the entire procedure. The bill of the Left Block provides to remove the entities of the National Health Service from the law of commitments, PSD and CDS-PP. This will greatly facilitate all bureaucratic processes to complete the work at the hospital of São João.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u16	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles spoke by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we are discussing today is based on a simple fact that should make us stop and think: the pediatric wing of the hospital of São João currently works in containers. It is in containers that the children of this hospital, which serves much of the north of the country and the Metropolitan Area of Porto, are treated. And that is the problem we must solve. We have two options: or we make this debate a move from guilt and responsibility,... [[PS protests.]] ... and even prejudices about public and private, or we actually try to do something to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u19	First of all, is the problem serious? It is! Has there been a long time? Yes, it does. Through various governments? Yeah, go through. I hope that we can all agree on this. But I hope that we will not stay for these things, that we will pass on to others. Second, is it not true that, in April of this year, the hospital of St. John had money to move forward with this work and that this work already had a project? The CDS visited the hospital of São João and the response it received from the Board of Directors was "yes, there is a project; yes, we can move forward with the work; yes, we have money. So, then, what is missing? Mr. Minister for Finance is missing to sign a paper. The answer was taxive and it was that there were no works — and they were not started in April this year, so they are not happening now — because Mr Finance Minister was missing an authorization. Basically, what I can say, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the question continues, because what has been authorized was the opening of an invitation to tender to make another project beyond what already exists.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u21	And you know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? For, within a year, the gentlemen. Members may also be indignant to say that they do not understand why the works do not start. And we're going to be discussing one and the other project and opening the process from the beginning. I'd like you to meet me. Members of the PS and also the Members. Members of the CFP and the Block, who support the government and vote on the Budgets, could answer a question: where is the money for these works to begin? Where is it planned in the Budget of the State which has entered this week in the Assembly of the Republic?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u22	All right! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u23	It's just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you're not, then we're discussing projects for English to see. [[PCP protests.]] They are projects for all to feel irresponsible and nobody takes responsibility for anything. on that, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS will certainly not come in!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u25	We approved here a draft resolution of the CDS. It must also be said that not only the CDS but all parties in this House believe that the works should be started. Now, if we all think that the works should start, if we all agree that the conditions are absolutely unacceptable and if we all know that the hospital has money to start the works, I would like to ask the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing projects today. instead of the works, why is this discussion taking place?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u26	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u27	Of course, Mr. President. It is a pity, it is indeed a pity that the government is not present to answer this question. But the PS, the PCP and the Block, which support it and enable its continuity, will certainly know how to answer this question: Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, why aren't the works already on the ground? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u28	Mr Fernando Jesus has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today in this House once again the need for the construction of the new pediatric center of the hospital of São João by impulse of the draft resolutions presented by the PCP and the PSD. The debate is duly timely. First of all, because the oncological sick children of Saint John have the right to care with all dignity and comfort and because it can be determined that current facilities, as is recognized by all, are inappropriate. Secondly, because it is an opportunity to restate the truth of the facts that have occurred in the long history of its construction. Some in 2007, recognizing the need to improve pediatric facilities, the administration of São João decided to transmit to the entities protected by the Ministry of Health the need for the construction of a new pediatric center. In 2008 the pediatric emergency came into operation. In 2010 the pediatric intensive care unit entered the service. The project for the new pediatric center was being developed by the hospital and was completed in 2012, not having recorded any development until 2015. Improvements in the conditions of treatment of children and working conditions of professionals until new facilities continue. In November 2017, the works of the day hospital began, which entered into operation in June 2018. In September 2018, the current government, a joint commission of Mrs. Ministers of Finance and Health authorized the Board of Directors of the hospital of São João to launch the competitive procedure for the design and design of new facilities for the pediatric center. This new measure has put an end to a long period of uncertainty about the political will for the construction of the oncological pediatric wing, which has long been required. The project, completed in 2012, reflecting the needs of the primary pediatric care network of Porto in previous years, before the construction of the Center Materno-Infantil do Norte, will necessarily have to be reformulated, which is already being done by the same team of designers. The hospital of São João already has in its power a legal opinion that allows the project to be changed without the need to resort to the competition, opening the possibility of launching the works by direct adjustment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We believe that, in January 2019, the hospital of São João will be in a position to launch these works. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as I have just demonstrated, are false the PSD charges that the current government lacks will to solve the problem or that the government has only passed the September 2018 order, authorising the hospital of São João to launch the contest for the design of the new facilities as are false, even the charges that the government continues to use files to postpone what should have been done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as the PSD wants to hide reality, as much as it continues to proclaim that the government has done nothing, it blocks, it lacks will to solve the problem, the unforgivable truth is this: in January 2019, the hospital of São João...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u30	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u31	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, in January 2019 the hospital of São João should be able to launch the work of the facilities of the new pediatric center. And the PSD is unable to present us with a single measure taken by its government to unlock this situation. For all this, it is deeply regrettable that the PSD is taking advantage of the drama of many families with oncological sick children to do pure demagogy. The sick children and the suffering of families deserve all our respect and solidarity and do not deserve this regrettable behavior. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u32	To close this debate, Mr Luís Vales has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, it is sometimes difficult to understand what is happening in this Parliament. We see here a PCP intervention with ideological obstinacy, in which they create problems that do not exist,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u34	It was you who created them!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u35	...invent obstacles, just because they don't want to solve people's specific problems and in which, in fact, the most important is the ideology they bring here. But I would like to welcome the position of the Left Block, which here well mentioned the following: 10 years passed in which they governed the PS, the PSD, the CDS. And now, with your support and the PCP, here's the PS, which hasn't done anything in the last three years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u36	It's all because of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u37	But what we must join — and I was quite pleased with what the PS Member here has told us — is the fact that this PSD draft resolution has already taken effect and has already been realized that the project can be changed and that, above all, it can already be made that direct adjustment. I would like to say that children who suffer, families, health professionals who accompany them and Portuguese have to feel that they can count on this Parliament. We must therefore always put ourselves above any political or ideological difference. [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] If it was the fault of A or B, Government A or Government B, this is not called here. I am sure everyone will agree with me that what is important right now is to solve the actual problem of people. Making a difference is, in fact, in the hands of each one of us. Therefore, this recommendation has added value: to make the Government realize that the resolution of this problem of the pediatric wing of the Hospital and University Center of São João and of children suffering from cancer is a priority and that the Portuguese demand that this problem be solved quickly. The PSD also expects that, as long as these new facilities are not in operation, the Government will ensure that treatments to children are provided in accordance with appropriate practices and in the best conditions of safety, quality and humanization.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u38	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u39	Finally, Mr President, I would like to appeal once again to all the parliamentary groups that look at people, who make their contribution to this cause and who, above all, unite around those who need it most. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u40	We will move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists of the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 873 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Amends Decree-Law No. 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme, 913 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Amends Decree-Law No. 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme 1012 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Amends the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme by strengthening family reception and promoting an effective policy of deinstitutionalization of children and young people, and 1018 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Care Implementation Scheme in order to create new rights in host families. To begin this debate, Mrs Idália Serrão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Law No. 147 / 99 of 1 September, the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, a decisive milestone in the promotion of children's rights in Portugal, and unanimously approved by this House, in its articulate has a set of protective measures that are only applied either by the protective committees of children and young people or by the courts, which unequivocally favour the prevalence in the family as a guiding principle of intervention. The measure of family care reinforces the absolute priority of children to be integrated into the family environment and to provide adequate care to their needs, their well-being, their education, but aims much more than that: it aims to create conditions for these children to grow up within families in which they could not remain. In 2008, with the approval of Decree-Law No. 11 / 2008 of 17 January, the Implementing Family Care Scheme was defined by strengthening, in particular, once again, the role of the child in the centre of intervention and the need for no relation between families or persons available to host these children, and these same children or young people. Therefore, family reception, and the measure of family reception, was never, nor should it be, understood as a way for any other measure, because each of the vast measures contained in the protection law requires a decision, requires procedures, requires time of evaluation focused, at all, on children and not on any other protagonists. And also because there is a wide range of measures provided for in the protection law, this is just one more of the measures that are framed. After a decade of publication of Decree-Law No. 11/2008, it is necessary to reflect on its application and on the measure of family reception and to continue to improve such a measure so that children can find, in the people or families available to receive them, a will free of constraints that limit their application. This is without prejudice, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government are able to make a deeper review of Decree-Law No 11/2008, following the reflection that has been produced over the last 10 years by experts, judges, interveners and families, in accordance with the conclusions that have been produced. It is in this sense that the Socialist Party presents, in the bill that we now discuss, only a densification of its article 44. the, socially recognizing the will, dedication and availability of these families and of these people to welcome children in situations of risk or imminent danger, to which a measure of family care was applied. We do not intend, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this initiative, take effect a substantive amendment to this decree, which must include all the contributions that have been produced so far, but we only want to create conditions for the family reception measure to be applied more expeditiously and in a balanced way while this review is being carried out and all these contributions are being incorporated. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u42	Mrs Laura Magalhães has now given the floor to present the PSD initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today the amendment of the decree approving the system for the implementation of family reception, family reception as a measure for the promotion and protection of children and young people in danger. In 2015, with the PSD Government and the CDS, there was an amendment to the Child and Youth Promotion and Protection Act in Danger. There was a clear objective of changing the paradigm of action. Among other aspects, it was clear that family reception must be a privileged measure to the detriment of residential reception. All international recommendations, supported in several scientific studies, so dictate. Only this government, with a sectarian vision, does not want to take it. But it is necessary to create conditions for the paradigm change to take place. This Government of the Socialist Party, supported by the Left Block and the PCP, is responsible for designing conditions for this to happen. There is, of course, a need to move forward, once and for all, with the rules lacking, particularly because the setting up of the host family system so requires, among other factors. Upon returning three years after the approval of the law, nothing has yet been done. I repeat, after three years nothing has been done, and the blame is for this government, only and only for this government. The measure of residential care continues to be subsidized in relation to family care, up to 6 years of life of a child who is outside his or her family context. of children and young people with a measure of promotion and protection under placement arrangements only 3 % are in family care. Only 3 %! There have never been so few host families in Portugal. It is a shame that Portugal continues in the tail of Europe. [[PSD applause.]] The development time of the child or young person who is in custody of the Portuguese State does not coincide with the populist political time of this government. All children have the right to live within a family, and there are actions that can already be taken. Of course, PSD proposes that all children be automatically contemplated with 1. The family allowance step. It also proposes the joining of the service allowance and the monthly maintenance allowance in a single monthly allowance for the reception of each child and young person. It also proposes that the host child be considered dependent on the host family aggregate for the purposes of IRS and that the host family may benefit from the legal system of absences for care to the host child. Of course, all this can still be deepened, but for us, for the PSD, these are the minimum Olympics for this race of claiming family welcome. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u44	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u45	I shall finish, Madam President, by saying: there is courage to make a difference, there is courage to assume that we have to bet on family welcome! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u46	To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the various international recommendations to the contrary, in particular the Committee on the Rights of the Child and the European Commission, Portugal continues to favour residential reception to the detriment of the family, which, showing values in the order of 3% of the total of children received, places Portugal among the worst countries in Europe in this regard, whose average is above 50 %. Given the negative consequences for children resulting from residential reception, it is necessary to implement effective measures that promote increased family care, such as those we propose today, and that aim to pursue an effective policy of deinstitutionalization of children and young people. It is essential that the increase in value for child support is considered. Children who are received in these families should, in all cases, be entitled to family allowance, in the same way as the payment of the same child's allowance to an institution, being integrated into paragraph 1. the step so that they can benefit from school social action. Hosting families should also benefit from an identical licence to parental leave, as well as from the existing scheme of absences to work for the provision of care to foster children, which, for tax purposes, should be considered as part of the family aggregate, allowing the deduction in IRS of expenses with the child. Finally, host families must also benefit from the exemption or reduction of the amount paid to day-care facilities, as is the case with the institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u48	To present the initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the Socialist Party on this agenda and also the PSD and the PAN on the proposals they have put forward. It is not possible to have a debate on this subject without first having an awareness of the importance and seriousness of what we are talking about. We are talking about children and young people at risk and we are talking about measures aimed at those who, among us, are the most vulnerable at a given time in their lives. We are talking about measures to remove children from their family environment and, among them, the legislator essentially envisages two: one, institutionalization in residential homes and one, family reception. when discussing these measures, what is strange is not to feel, firstly, a great shock, for the very serious disproportionateness that exists between the use of family care and the use of residential housing. In all the Western civilised countries, this proportion of children in family care is about 50 % to 90 % and in Portugal this percentage is only 3 %, i.e. 97 % of the children in care are targeted at residential homes, residential housing, institutionalization, and not family care. This is so serious and so meaningless that it should be worth an effective commitment on the part of all the parties represented here to change this measure. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, even at the beginning of this month, in the city of Porto, an international congress of experts on these issues related to the policies of children and young people at risk took place. And when, at the inaugural session, the specialists, technicians from all over the world, agreed on the Portuguese reality which later took place in a petition, a manifesto signed by all the experts—over 700 — present, addressed to the Government and the President of the Republic, to reverse this situation that puts Portugal on the line of the civilized world. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing here is not just one or another tax law, which we subscribe to, but above all, the attention that this issue should deserve from all parties to reverse this situation and actually place the family reception on the priority that should have as a first solution for children who are withdrawn from their families and who should be placed, yes, in a family environment. That's not happening, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. There are families who want to welcome family and the government does not respond. This cannot be a party matter, it must be transversal. We must reverse this situation, which is serious. Those involved are the most vulnerable children, children and young people at risk. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u50	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue with the speeches. You have the floor, to this end, Mrs Sandra Cunha of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Although the number of children received by the State in promotion and protection processes has declined over the last few years in Portugal, there are still more than 8,000 institutionalized children in our country. Protecting often passes, and unfortunately, by the option of institutionalizing, as if children were the aggressors and not the victims. The negative impacts that institutionalization has on the development of children are widely known, on their capacity for social integration. And we also know how often the cycles of marginalization and exclusion are repeated in these children. Portugal records, at European level — and has already been mentioned here — of the highest rates of institutional and residential reception, as it is now called, contrary to international recommendations on the rights and protection of children, which systematically alert children to the need to comply with the right of children to live in a secure, family environment and to ensure adequate care for their needs, which are fundamental to their full development. It was with this premise that the system of implementation of family care was regulated and sought to promote it, opening up the possibility for host families to do of it their main, or secondary professional activity, but also allowing the reception of children by families free of charge, precisely to increase the number of foster families in Portugal and to determine what is stipulated in the Child and Youth Promotion and Protection Act, favouring family care, especially for young children. However, the number of foster families in Portugal remains absolutely residual. It is important, especially for people who are willing to welcome children free of charge, to guarantee equal conditions and rights, until they are currently faced with major difficulties and obstacles to the task of caring and educating a child. It does not make sense that anyone who is available to educate and care for a child for free — thus replacing himself with the responsibility of the State, because, in fact, the child remains in the custody of the State — cannot deduct the expenses arising from the IRS or is not entitled to due misconduct in the work to care for that child. Just as it doesn't make sense for children in foster care—and we are talking about this free scheme—to have the same rights and conditions as those in residential care, in institutional care. The Left Block generally follows the meaning of the bills presented today, considering that some improvements can and should be made, in the field of specialty, some clarifications. However, we follow the general sense, which seeks to ensure that these families have access to tax and labour rights, promoting family reception and fulfilling the right of children to live in a protective and secure family environment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u52	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to begin by registering those which were the words of the CDS, of concern to all this situation, and when they had the direct protection of this folder and were in the government, they did not achieve what they announced here. But it is clear that the CDS has to be outside the government to actually have social concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u55	The theme we are discussing today as a whole in these initiatives effectively deserves careful and careful reflection, especially because of the impact it can have on the lives of many children and young people in situations of risk and vulnerability. with regard to the concrete proposals submitted, in particular within the framework of the labour rights of the members of the host families or even in tax matters, do not raise any problems or obstacles to the CFP, but, with regard to these same initiatives, it is also important to bring to the debate other reflections on this matter. The CASA report (Annual Characterization of the Child and Youthcare Situation) for the year 2016 mentions that the family and residential care system covered a total of 10,688 children and young people. of these, 5779 began their host situation in previous years and only 387 began and ceased their host situation in the same year. We make this reference because these numbers here represent children, each of these numbers represents a child, a life story, a family reality and a family of origin, curiously, something that no one mentioned in previous interventions. We cannot fail to mention the families of origin because the response to giving children at risk, at risk or under protection, in situations of family or social vulnerability must always have as a first response an intervention with their families of origin, in order to provide and guarantee to these families the necessary conditions for children to stay with their parents, with their families. We recognize, of course, that there are situations where the solution may have to go through family and residential reception, which must always be the last resort, and these situations cannot continue in time either. The fact that only 0, 4 % of children and young people in a family and residential environment see their situation resolved within a maximum of one year indicates that these situations of reception tend to extend for several years. This is also a matter that deserves our reflection, particularly with regard to those who are the means of the State and the means that the State makes available to the intervention with the child and, together with his family of origin, which must be done in parallel with the situations of reception. On this issue, it is also important to say that the CFP understands, defends and has defended that the protection and follow-up of these children and young people and their families is a primary responsibility of the State and that the State cannot be irresponsible in this matter. There may be cases where the return to the natural family may be more delayed or may not even take place, but this may not mean, for this child, the postponement of their life project. Therefore, because each case is a case and because each child needs an adequate response to its specificities and needs, it is important that all the intended responses have all the conditions to be implemented when necessary. One last concern about this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u56	Even last, Mrs. Member. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u57	Even to finish, Madam President. Solutions and answers to these realities can never transform the right of these children and young people to grow into harmony in a business. This can never happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u59	It is the best interest of the child and the fulfilment of his fundamental rights that must be at the focus of legislation in such sensitive and complex area. And it is, of course, in this sense that the CFP will also be available to intervene and contribute to finding better solutions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u60	The PS, as the author of the schedule, has 2 minutes to close this debate. To that end, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a result of this debate, the Protection of Children and Young People Act of 1999 was a milestone in the course of the protection and promotion of the rights of children and young people in danger, thus providing for family reception with a regime that would refer to its own legislation. The system of family reception, it is worth remembering, precisely determines that those people or families who promote family reception do not have any relation of kinship with the child, thus clearly distinguishing themselves from the adoption institute. However, this system of family reception has already had a decade and, in our view, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the decade that has already led to the promotion of its review, without prejudice to a more in-depth review that should not fail to be made by the Government, because this review cannot fail to make a relative consideration of all the protection measures for children and young people provided for by law, and it should be done by those who have a closer relationship with social security services and, therefore, forgive the expression, can make the legal branch of that institute. But it must be acknowledged that there are injustices that the course of time has only served to show and nothing justifies that cannot be corrected from now on, and that is what we propose. As we mentioned in the exposition of the bill we presented, although the Law already provides that the reception service can be provided free of charge, the truth is that in practice this forecast remained without taking care of densification. The consequence was that many of those who are predisposed to welcome children and young people with nothing to receive for this reason are in practice costing the performance of such important social role. To propose, as we propose, that the expenses incurred by such families may be tax-deductible is an act of undeniable justice, translates the recognition of the social relevance of the role of such families, just as no one today will understand or accept that the one who, altruistically, temporarily has a child or young person in danger cannot, in particular in the case of hospital or other assistance, see in this motivation a justification for lack of legal consequences. I conclude by stressing that it is the interest of the minor, in the case of his rights and well-being, that they claim this possibility, for more at times of particular vulnerability of whom life has so many times already placed in the condition of increased and permanent vulnerability. Therefore, it is to recognize what is right, and that is what the Socialist Party project is about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u62	At the end of this debate, we move on to the next item on the agenda, of which is the joint discussion, in general, of Bills Nos 940 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Ends with the possibility of suspending the retirement condition of judicial judges for the exercise of the functions of arbitrator in tax matters ( fourth amendment to the Legal Regime of Tax Arbitration ), 941 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Ends with the possibility of recourse by the State to arbitration and public legal persons and 934 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Bans the State from using arbitration as a form of dispute resolution in administrative and fiscal matters. To begin the debate, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Privatization of tax and administrative justice deserves the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block a serious reservation because it is potentially an attack on the satisfaction of the public interest. The argument that has been used for the promotion of tax and administrative arbitration has been that of the laxity of administrative and fiscal justice. We understand that this argument is dually fallacious. First of all, because it compares the incomparable. In fact, in administrative and fiscal justice there is the principle of double jurisdiction, i.e. a trial in the first instance, with recourse to the Court of Appeal, while in arbitration there is, as is well known, the rule of irrecursibility of the arbitral decision. This even occurs when it comes to recourse by constitutionality. Is it true that today there is a protocol between the Administrative Arbitration Centre and the Attorney General's Office of the Republic, but does it make any sense that the guarantee of constitutionality is made through a protocol? Honestly, we don't think so! Secondly, if there is — and indeed there is — morbidity, and particularly serious morosity in the area of administrative and fiscal justice, then we create the conditions for this morosity to be mitigated, through reforms of a material or procedural nature. To maintain the moroncy, thus feeding the privatization of justice, this does not seem to us entirely appropriate and seems to us, in fact, a perversion of the rule of law. So there are some questions: why did the State, after government, invest in administrative and fiscal justice? Why does a private association, for no profit, have the exclusive tax arbitration for disputes up to EUR 10 million and have the exclusive administrative arbitration up to EUR 150 million? Why does the State agree to submit disputes that it is a party to arbitrators who are one day arbitrators, on another day lawyers against the State? Why does the state accept this? from our point of view this is not acceptable! That's not enough, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and in 2012 the temporary suspension of the condition of retired magistrates was admitted, allowing retired judges to exercise the functions of arbitrator and then return to the condition of retirees. This is, in our view, an immoral and unacceptable exception because, in fact, the speciality of the retirement scheme in relation to the common retirement scheme is the counterpart of the system of professional exclusivity and remuneration for the exercise of the judiciary. So, the bill we present, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not prohibit a magistrate from being an arbitrator. What prevents it is that, wanting to be an arbitrator, this magistrate may then return to retirement. We do not allow ourselves to be consecrated, therefore, or remain in the law, a rotating door between the retirement status and the possibility of being an arbitrator. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u64	You now have the floor to present the PCP bill, Mr.António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law that the CFP is tabling today has to do with the prohibition of the State from submitting disputes in administrative and fiscal matters to arbitration. As it is known, citizens have their rights and guarantees provided for in the Constitution in respect of Public Administration. For this purpose, precisely in order for these legitimate rights and interests to be effective, there are administrative and fiscal courts and the Constitution provides for access to the right to effectiveness of a judicial decision, to effective judicial protection. That is why the disputes with the State, the emerging disputes of administrative and fiscal relations, must be settled. It does not take the argument that administrative and tax courts are affected by laxity because it is a duty of the State to ensure that such courts can apply justice in good time. If it is acceptable, in principle, that two private parties, two individuals, natural persons or businesses, on an equal basis, may decide freely to subject their disputes to a non-judicial composition of disputes, that is a problem between these two parties. Whether it is the State itself to submit legal-administrative or tax disputes to arbitral courts, this is not acceptable in our view. Experience has shown that public interest has been severely damaged by the use of arbitration. As regards public procurement, we have the scandalous examples of public-private partnerships in which the State is being damaged in hundreds of millions of euros through the use of arbitral courts. To use a certain football language, experience has shown that, in the arbitral courts, when the State is one of the parties, the field is always inclined to the disfavor of the State. In other words, the state loses invariably. We have scandalous examples, such as that of the Atlantic ship, in which the State was hired, in this case through the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo, was condemned to stay with the ship, because it was invincible, and to compensate the buyer for 40 million euros. After all, the ship was perfectly sold as soon as the Shipkeepers were privatized. In tax matters, what experience shows is that large debtors always have the opportunity to resort to arbitration and a large part of their debt has been forgiven by this way. The small debtors, these, are plagued in an absolutely implacable way. Therefore, the use of arbitration by the State has been translated into injustice, i.e. a denial of justice, and at the same time in a way that invariably reads the interests of the State, that is, the interests of taxpayers, the interests of the Portuguese people. in this sense, we understand that, since disputes of an administrative and fiscal nature are involved, it is before the administrative and tax courts that these disputes must be settled because that is precisely what they exist. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u66	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to begin by welcoming the Left Block for the presentation of one of the bills today under discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u68	Just one?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u69	Just one, sir! It is the Bill No. 940 / XIII / 3. a, which seems to us to renew the retirement regime to what was the intention of the legislator in 2011, a regime that ensures a statute to judges that extends beyond retirement their guarantees of independence, ending with this exception introduced in 2012, which seems to us to make the whole sense. We no longer deserve our support for the initiatives that aim to end arbitration as a mechanism for resolving emerging disputes between the State and individuals in administrative and fiscal matters. And we oppose these initiatives, regardless of a fundamental reasoning on which the role of arbitration in these matters should be, because we do not think it legitimate that a State, which cannot operate an administrative and fiscal jurisdiction that decides in good time, ends with a more rapid mechanism for conflict resolution. You are right, Mr President, when you say that part of this slowdown in court proceedings is a consequence of a deviation from the State of this jurisdiction in recent years. Even recently, at the hearing of the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals (STAF ), this Council had the opportunity to recall a cartoon story that happened in my electoral circle. The story was this: with the extinction of the Tribunal Tributary of 1. the Aveiro instance by a government in which PSD and CDS were, creating a TAF (administrative and fiscal court) in Viseu, the processes were all properly packed and cashed in Aveiro and sent to Viseu. Later, a socialist government created, and well, an administrative and fiscal court in Aveiro and the proceedings returned from Viseu to Aveiro, exactly in the same boxes where they had travelled the IP5 in the opposite direction, and had not been opened in the meantime. It must therefore be acknowledged that there are, in fact, historically measures taken that have not contributed to the speed of administrative and fiscal procedures. But in this legislature, in which there have been judges entering the courts which correspond to the maximum training capacity of the ECJ ( Centre for Judicial Studies ) year by year and in which the Council of Ministers has still recently approved a set of measures aimed at giving greater efficiency and speed to the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction, it seems to me that at least we must expect a significant improvement, which we expect from these measures in those jurisdictions, so that we can discuss the role that exists - and that we also believe there is - for arbitration in administrative and fiscal matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u70	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills that the PCP and BE here today present to us to put an end to arbitration in administrative and fiscal matters are obviously not new. The CFP and BE have always shown themselves against some means of alternative dispute resolution, particularly arbitration, and these initiatives are a consequence of this. This is a fact, it is a fact in itself, and it has nothing intrinsically good or intrinsically bad, it is a choice. It is a choice of legislative policy, which obviously separates us — it is known — and it puts us, precisely where we are and VV. Ex., exactly where VV. Ex. They are. We are therefore on the antipodes, which is where we want to continue to be. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u72	This is a VV choice. Ex. that we do not discuss, but that it is not democratically or constitutionally superior to our choice, as they intend to make believe even by the exposure of reasons they present. The defence of the public interest, the principle of equality and the principle of legality, which VV. They say they're beautified with arbitration, they're all guaranteed either through the judicial route or through the extrajudicial route. And one and the other of these pathways are, express and clearly, contained in our Constitution. And I'm sure the gentlemen. Members do not understand that our Constitution enshrines an attack on any of these principles, otherwise they would have tried to alter it and never did. So, the ladies and gentlemen. Members will understand that if you don't like the idea, very well, you don't like it, it's a VV option. Ex., but this is an alternative idea, equally legitimate and possible, and that brings countless advantages, from the outset and to the head, to confer speed and effectiveness and, therefore, realization of justice. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we well know that a justice that is slow, a justice that is not effective, is not justice. Therefore, to make it believe that, if this brings more justice, it is a fallacy and it is a deceiver. To end arbitration is, moreover, a backward step that has harmful consequences for the judicial organization and, worse, as I said even now, does not allow effective judicial protection to be achieved, which is a principle that surely none of us in this Chamber intend to deny. Not at all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, and particularly Mr. Mr.António Filipe and Mr. José Manuel Pureza, choosing obviously implies presenting alternative solutions and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no alternative solution here. If the solution presented by you is to refer to the TAFs, filled with expectations for more than 10 years, this is obviously a very bad choice. If the solution of the honourable Members. Members are hiring more judges, more advisors, equipping the courts with technical means and dignified conditions, I would say that this is an option and a good choice, and we have to do cross-sectionally, regardless of arbitration or not. But if that is the choice of the ladies and gentlemen. Members, then, must be consistent and lead the next State budget. It is that the next State budget does not enshrine anything in this matter and you will again approve it. So make up your mind, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because you can't want everything and the opposite of everything. It's not possible, it's not viable. Actions, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have consequences...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u73	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u74	...and acting without dealing with the consequences is a very bad choice, which already worsens what goes wrong and very bad. So the CDS doesn't have this choice and the ladies and gentlemen. Members should be consistent with that. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u75	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Two amendments to the legal system of arbitration in administrative and fiscal matters are under discussion. One of them intends to reject the possibility of suspension of the retirement condition of the judicial magistrates, rejection that seems to go to the meeting of all philosophy inherent in the status and its special retirement regime. However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this initiative is a sin because it does not clearly clarify the scope of the temporary and subjective application of this prohibition. The other initiative raises other issues which are not new, and which have already been widely discussed in this House and are, in our view, outdated. The EB and the CFP intend to impose the prohibition of the State and legal persons governed by public law use arbitration in administrative and fiscal matters. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to legal matters, this is an eminently political issue. It is the recognition that, also in matters of justice and courts, BE and the PCP do not resist trying to impose their ideology, nor do they have to override our Basic Law and the gains resulting from the speed, flexibility and specialization of the arbitral courts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this state monopoly view of jurisdictional function is a dangerous, inadequate and antiquated vision. It's dangerous, because it's not in accordance with our Constitution. It is inappropriate, because it is not in accordance with the tradition of Portuguese arbitration. It is antiquated because what is currently being discussed is the extension of the scope of arbitration to other matters of administrative law and not its prohibition. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what is mentioned in one of the initiatives, arbitration does not mean private justice...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u77	So, what is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u78	... or lack of guarantees of impartiality. Our legal-constitutional order considers the arbitral courts to be true courts and the decisions made by them as authentic court decisions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the reasons justifying and legitimizing public-law arbitrations are the same as justifying and legitimizing private-law arbitrations. The State and legal persons of public law cannot therefore be deprived of the use of all means of defence as if they were inequity of arms against the private. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the arbitral option in administrative matters is consistent with the model of rule of law which the Portuguese constitutional order receives and with the equal and equal vision between the Administration and the private. Justice, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a central part of our rule of law. The justice that the Portuguese aspire to is a faster, more expedited, less formalism, and not the justice that is, today, defended by BE and PCP. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u79	The Left Block, as the author of the agenda, has 2 minutes to close the debate. Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to note with great pleasure the broad agreement that seems to be established in this Chamber about the bill that the Left Block presented on the compatibility between retirement and the exercise of arbitration. Of course, as regards the doubts which Mrs Sara Madruga of the Costa has just raised regarding the scope of application, we will certainly have an opportunity, in the field of expertise, to fine-tune this matter and, therefore, we will proceed with it. Now, with regard to the other bill, several comments have been made here, to which I cannot help react. Firstly, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade says, more or less, this: « There is a situation of serious laxity installed and, in the meantime, it is not advised to move forward to a regime that replaces what arbitration can give out of control of administrative and fiscal jurisdiction». I believe that this interpretation, as I have said in my first speech, is dangerous. It is dangerous, in our view, because it in some way allows, in the shadow of this interpretation, to desist from introducing into the system of administrative and fiscal justice a set of improvements that effectively allow it to be agile and to respond to the demands of a rule of law such as ours. We must give priority to defending the rule of law. That is why it is important to invest in administrative and fiscal justice. That is why, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, who, when the honourable Member says that we do not have alternatives, what we are rightly saying is that administrative and fiscal arbitration weakens the rule of law and that the alternative is to strengthen the rule of law, improving the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. That is what this is about and is therefore a very clear alternative. And you are right to Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, you are absolutely right, when she says that on this side we do not give up imposing an ideology. It is the ideology of the democratic rule of law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u81	We moved on to the discussion, in general, of Bills Nos. 997 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthening the autonomy of hospital entities integrated in the National Health Service for the hiring of human resources, 998 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Model of financing hospitals integrated into the National Health Service, 974 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — regulates the legal regime and the statutes applicable to health units of the National Health Service integrated into the administrative public sector by repealing Decrees-Laws Nos 18 / 2017 of 10 February and 284 / 99 of 26 July, 1015 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — autonomy for hiring professionals by hospitals, hospitals and local health units integrated in the National Health Service and 1016 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Excludes the entities of the National Health Service from the scope of the Law of Commitments ( fifth amendment to Law No 8 / 2012, of 21 February and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 127 / 2012 of 21 June ). Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor to present the initiatives of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The state of the National Health Service ( SNS) is serious! of the exhaustion and dissatisfaction of health professionals, with prolonged and successive strikes, underfunding and disinvestment in health services, which are maintained, we have reasons to stress that the sustainability of the National Health Service is threatened and that the provision and quality of care is compromised. It was not the enormous effort of health professionals—which we welcome here—and surely the results would be much worse. in these three long years of socialist governance of António Costa, supported by the PCP and the Block of Left, the CDS has closely accompanied the health situation, has reported serious failures and has made clear and constructive proposals, unfortunately, not always approved here. Today, we again bring new concrete proposals, moreover, supported by credible and consistent recommendations, which aim to improve the functioning of the National Health Service. The National Health Service is, for us, a pillar of social cohesion, a pillar of the national health system and is an indispensable pillar to which, in fact, this government has not given due priority and attention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u84	We have no ideological prejudice, I repeat, we have no ideological prejudice and we reaffirm that the social and private sectors are a good contribution to the efficiency of the health system, which does not, of course, exempt us from presenting measures to improve the National Health Service and the health of Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that remodeling has been done, perhaps, a little to launch also a smoking curtain on the health area and other areas, as we have seen in recent days. So what we wanted to say is that remodeling is over but health problems remain and continue. Therefore, the Minister of Health will not have any state of grace due to this remodeling because we clearly need concrete measures and she will tell us, indeed, what she is coming to and what she will do to improve the health of the Portuguese. In fact, we understand that it will not be free because with the 2 % increase in transfers to the SNS that this State budget proposes — behind benevolent advertisements with features of propaganda to say that it is now that it is and that now there is priority for the SNS — it will not be this, Mrs and Mrs. Members, who terminates the SNS's sub-financing. We have always said that underfinancing was not the only problem and that management and autonomy in the SNS needed to be improved. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u85	Madam Member, I would like to ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u86	I will finish, Mr. President. That is what we want to do with the proposals that we are bringing today, which aim to improve the autonomy that this government wants to achieve in hospitals, improve efficiency and reward merit and good results. They are clearly consensual measures — and I shall now finish, Mr President — these are cross-cutting measures that we have presented here a month ago, following other speakers, and what we hope is a broad consensus because, in fact, the SNS is a national design and not a small thing for the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u87	Mrs Carla Cruz now speaks on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The defence, enhancement and strengthening of the National Health Service is a national imperative and requires that the institutions and services integrated in it be endowed with administrative, financial and heritage autonomy and have fully public management. To this end, it is necessary to stop the entrepreneurship of hospitals and public-private partnerships established by successive right-wing governments, PS, PS, PS, and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u89	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u90	That is precisely what we propose with this legislative initiative. The institutionalization of business logic in the SNS, through the transformation of public hospitals into public corporate entities and the proliferation of PPPs (public-private partnerships), had not only impact on management and organization of services but also impacted on workers and users. the workers were deprived of their rights, imposed on them individual employment contracts and disregulated their working hours and careers; users increased their costs with the payment of consultations, treatments and examinations and in many hospitals, but repeatedly in public-private partnerships, several times they are denied access to the treatment prescribed by the doctor because the economic criteria overlap with the clinical criteria. This is unacceptable! The political option of transforming a constitutional right — the right to health — into a business was not interrupted by the current PS government; on the contrary, it continues with the publication of Decree-Law No 18 / 2017 of 10 February, insofar as it transforms the current hospitals of the public administrative sector into public corporate entities. It was wrong for the government not to have taken this opportunity to interrupt the path of entrepreneurship and privatization of the SNS, not to have revoked the PPPs of Braga, Cascais, Vila Franca de Xira and Loures. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, every day on which the reversal of the business regime and the revocation of PPPs is postponed is another day when it contributes to the weakening of the SNS. What is required and imposed is fully public management; what is required and required is that SNS funding be adequate and done through the transfer of funds from the State budget; what is required and required is that SNS management be based on multi-annual strategic plans; what is required and required is that professionals be recruited in due course and in due course. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u91	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block brings the discussion to two bills that, to be approved, will improve the National Health Service, increase the number of professionals, increase the investment and even increase the efficiency, so propagated efficiency of the units of the National Health Service. What do the projects proposed by the Left Block bring the discussion? First, autonomy for the hiring of professionals by hospitals, hospitals and local health units; second, to exclude the entities of the National Health Service from the so-called Compromise Law, PSD and CDS-PP. How will these projects, by becoming law, help to strengthen the National Health Service and improve care for users? It's easy! The entities of the National Health Service will be able to contract according to their needs, without having to have prior authorization by the Ministry of Health and by the Ministry of Finance, which is currently not available. They will make it possible to invest more and better in the National Health Service and make some investments—for example, in buildings or in the purchase of equipment and other products—have no obstacles, as is currently the case, leading, for example, to the fact that the Court of Auditors does not give prior notice to some of these investments. How will these projects increase the efficiency of the National Health Service? They will allow to remove a number of absurdities that currently exist in the reality of the National Health Service. I give the example of two of these absurdities. Currently, there are scheduled surgeries that are cancelled because, for example, a particular hospital lacks operational assistants and there is no operational assistant to ensure scheduled surgery. It's absurd! If entities can have autonomy to hire professionals who are missing, this absurdity is removed from the National Health Service from day to day. I'll give you another example. A short time ago, a competition was launched for the acquisition of drugs for HIV-AIDS which, precisely because of the Law of the Compromises, had not previously been seen by the Court of Auditors. And what happened? After that, the various hospitals had to make several small direct adjustments to purchase these same medicines. It's absurd! It is much more expensive to the public record and it is a bureaucratic absurd! However, the proposals of the Left Block have removed these absurdities from day to day from the National Health Service and have greatly improved its management and operation of its units. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I remember that the Left Block has defended these proposals several times in this Parliament. I recall, in fact, that the State Budget for 2018 only did not include autonomy for contracting by the institutions of the National Health Service because the PSD united its abstention from voting against the Socialist Party ; if it had not been so, such already existed in the State Budget for 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u94	What the Left Block asks, what you want in this discussion is that you can now approve these bills to improve the National Health Service, ensure more professionals and ensure more investment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u95	Mrs Fatima Ramos of the PSD has the floor for an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss five initiatives aimed at changing the rules for the management, operation and hiring of hospital institutions of the National Health Service. I begin by distinguishing initiatives. Those of the Bloc and PCP are sick of the usual radicalism and irresponsibility in these parties. The considerations that they then make in the exhibition of motives reveal well the ideological sectarianism and the distorted view of history. This vision is opposed to that of all those who have a reformist, balanced view of politics and to the service of the common interest. The CFP proposes the usual statistical revenue: the revocation of public-private partnerships in health and the extinction of EPE hospitals ( business public entities ). It is not surprising, therefore, that the CFP project, as it no longer surprises its political hypocrisy to refer to all governments, including the current government, which supports and supports, as « the governments of right-wing policy ». As regards the project of the Left Block, which excludes SNS entities from the scope of application of the Law of Commitments, i.e. a law designed to combat the accumulation of late payments, it is appropriate to say that the Block does not cure the disease, rather to aggravate it and its causes. There is no problem for the Block that debt increases, there is no problem with any late payment terms in the order of EUR 800 million. For the Block, good accounts are not a priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u97	Didn't you hear me talk about direct settings? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u98	Suppliers provide and do not have to pay them, forgetting that, with this, they are helping factoring companies and banks because, thus, suppliers take more money— they lose the National Health Service and lose people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u99	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u100	These parties also forget that, in the defence of the SNS and the public interest, partnerships with the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) were important, institutions that are born of civil society, that are close to people and that could do better service and help efficiently.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u101	To buy meds, right?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u102	As for the initiatives of the Left Block and the CDS in order to ease the hiring of staff, the PSD disagrees with the radical approach of the Block but recognizes that the CDS project deserves weighting. After the difficult years of the crisis, the PSD defends greater autonomy in hiring professionals from SNS hospitals. However, this greater autonomy cannot mean lack of financial control and irresponsibility. It must be framed in strict budgetary planning and in a desirable multi-annual perspective. Finally, regarding the CDS project that aims to change the financing model of SNS hospitals, we recognize that the same is true in the principles, although there are some doubts about the proposed format. We applaud the favourable purpose of the citizens, we agree with the involvement of health professionals, in particular hospital administrators, but we fear that an application of these metrics which do not consider their high complexity and inter-relationship may lead to unwanted results, a circumstance aggravated by the logic of budgetary penalty which is underlying the initiative itself. In short, we believe that the CDS initiatives are in a rather constructive sense, and therefore deserve the opportunity for a more in-depth discussion in the field of expertise. When the PCP and Block projects, the PSD, as a responsible and reformist party, could never be revised in the principles and legislative solutions that they advocate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u103	Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills today, here in discussion, address, in fact, fundamental themes for the National Health Service: funding, the Law of Commitments, autonomy in hiring staff, the new organizational models. in the view of the Socialist Party, it is not interested to camouflage political approaches with parliamentary initiatives. We are even perplexed by some initiatives from some parties. For example, in the CDS, we are watching a huge flique-flash at the back, vulgar cambalhota. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In 1976, the CDS voted against Article 64. the Constitution, in 1979, voted against the Law of the National Health Service... [[It's true!]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u105	... and, between 2011 and 2015, guillotined the National Health Service! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the subject of a proposal to finance hospitals, have declared himself an intransigent and aceremous defender of the National Health Service. What's going on in the CDS, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Or we are facing a new assumption, I repeat, a new assumption as defenders of the National Health Service — and, if so, welcome — or we are facing a camouflaged electionist initiative of the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u106	He's distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u107	... which is no longer useful than to convince some that they are actually next to the National Health Service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u108	As for the PSD, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, history is quite different. We also understand the absolute silence of the PSD. No longer bet on the public management of the SNS, seeking to privatize the public sector. [[PSD protests.]] He was responsible, in troika time, for the limitation and autonomy of the management of hospitals and for the initiative that approved the Law of Commitments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And finally, it stays in absolute silence, because it can suffer a brave push of your leader's ears and then it is better to be quiet than to criticize without solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We therefore perceive the silence and discomfort of the PSD in this area. As regards the Bill No 794 / XIII / 3. the PCP, although we recognize the fact that we are faithful and consistent with its course, favouring more traditional solutions within the administrative public sector, we cannot follow the diagnosis and evaluation of the entrepreneurship of hospitals and PPPs (public-private partnerships ), thus not recognizing the need to modify the current framework of Decree-Law No 18 / 2017,... [[PCP protests.]] ... which, being so recent, justifies until obtaining greater experience as to its applicability. On the other hand, with regard to the left block bill, concerning the exclusion of the application of the Law of Commitments, its possible application would become an inappropriate and contrary to the control of expenditure as well as the reduction of late payments.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u109	The PS went against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u110	Moreover, in the 2019 Budget, the government already foresees new measures in pilot hospitals, and therefore cannot approve isolated measures...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u111	Sir, I was asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u112	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying in the 2019 Budget, the Government already foresees new measures in pilot-project hospitals, and therefore it cannot approve isolated measures that could compromise integrated approaches to innovation in the management of hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, the Socialist Party has the view that the Assembly of the Republic should not replace itself with the powers of the Government and the current framework in force, in particular the current Basic Law, already enables the adoption by the Government of measures...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u113	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u114	... that, by virtue of its specialization, must not be subject to a legal regulation and a legal framework of the law of the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u115	Mr Carla Cruz has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Hypocrites is the intervention of the PSD, which, in fact, has exposed what has been its performance. It has consistently defended the need to hire more professionals, to make medicines available,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u117	Put the resources in the right place!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u118	... but in the face of concrete proposals that would solve these problems, what the PSD here says is that they are not solved, because it will vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u119	Approve the Budget! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u120	And says the PSD that the PCP proposal is radicalism, but it is not ideological radicalism, as proposed by the PSD for health,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u121	You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u122	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u123	... transfer all public response, all public management to the private. That, in fact, is hypocritical and tells me exactly what your options are.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u124	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u125	As for the Socialist Party, it embarks precisely on what is wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u126	You're conivents!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u127	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u128	I will finish, Mr. President. The option for the privatization of the SNS and the Government of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group have embarked on this proposal is wrong. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u129	Now, as a party that has called for the scheduling of this debate, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u130	Mr President, I begin by addressing Mr António Sales in particular, to tell him, with immense calm, inversely proportional to the passion with which I am speaking here, that the CDS, yes, voted against the Socialist Party's proposal for the SNS, at this time, because he presented a proposal that, see, even closer to what is the SNS in the days that run than what was your original proposal. This is to see if, once and for all, we clarify this matter and we end up with this dispute about who is the "father of the child" or who has broken the system. [[PS protests.]] I have solved this matter and moving forward to what is concerned, I would like to point out that you have avoided talking about the proposals...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u131	They're not specific!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u132	...and I even understand why. It is not necessary, because the Minister of Finance spoke about them yesterday, he said to believe that the problem of EPE hospitals has a matter of efficiency and even stressed that there are funding problems which, and I quote, "does not come when it should". Look at the appreciation Mr. Minister for Finance! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u133	It has nothing to do with each other!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u134	And he also said « when we solve the problem of financing the economy, people are interested in things that are no longer central in their lives». I suppose he's talking about himself and he's finally going to take care of his health, something that he's been dealing with so far very little.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u135	That's it! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u136	And, in order to deal with health as it should, there are two things to be done: the first is to listen to the measures presented by the CDS here on efficiency in hospital management as regards autonomy in hiring and on the model of funding for hospitals —... [[Protests by PS Member Antonio Sales.]] ... moreover, measures envisaged in the State budget, therefore, we should not be so wrong, at least the Minister of Finance seems to understand - and finally to address a very important matter, which is that of subordination. Perhaps it was good that, once and for all, to reduce the debt that remains, Mr Finance Minister would put in the Budget what he has promised three years ago — we will see, briefly, whether it is so or not —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u137	Another 500 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u138	... because, as far as other things are concerned, you can solve them today by voting in favour of the CDS proposals. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u139	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate, so we will enter the next item on our agenda today, which is that of the evaluation of draft resolution No 1771 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — by the end of the Fertagus concession and the integration of the Lisbon / Setúbal rail service into the CP. To present this initiative, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The North-South railway axis, with the Lisboa-Setúbal connection, has been operating since July 1999 and is a key strategic element of the mobility and collective transport system. The option, taken by successive governments, was to bring and make here a private management project and service. The COP was then banned by the government's guardianship from competing for this service. The result, almost 20 years later and throughout this time, is a deep inequality in the fare practiced, always with much higher prices than in all other railway lines of AML ( Lisbon Metropolitan Area ). The price for the Lisbon-Pragal link is higher than that for the Lisbon-Alverca link, with double the distance, or the pass of the CP to the Lisbon-Azambuja link, with a distance close to that of the Lisbon-Setúbal link, but in which the price difference is 136 %, penalizing the populations of Setúbal in a scandalous way. However, the impossibility of using intermodal social pass users in unacceptable and irrational tariff discrimination from the point of view of transport networks and systems remains. The trains at the service in this connection were acquired by CP, are the same as those operating on the Azambuja Line and are owned by the State. In addition, Fertagus also has important sources of revenue that have been guaranteed to it in the concession contract, such as the exploitation of parking parks and shops in the most moving railway stations. There will be no lack of voices here that will once again praise the PPPs and say that Fertagus is of the best that there is and does not receive any money from the state. Well, as the Court of Auditors has clearly demonstrated, in an audit of railway PPPs, we are talking about costs for the State of more than EUR 200 million only between 1999 and 2013. It is already clear from the outset, Mr. Members, that the private dealership does not receive money from the State today, because it has already received it in advance. The money is already there, as a result of the ruinous business for the state which, once again, was maintained by successive governments. Workers have also been harmed over the years, because they have not been recognized to date the right to collective bargaining, thus limiting wages, rights and working conditions. We are faced with an unacceptable situation that cannot continue to penalise public interest, populations, transport users and workers of this service. of the PPP ar autos, the conversation is always the same: « it cannot end the concession, because triggering a rescue means unbearable costs for the state, they say. We can even discuss and demonstrate that truly ruinous PPPs for the state, for the populations and for the national economy are too expensive when they are maintained and perpetuated, have much more cost-freer than the costs of ending them. But in this discussion on the « PPP of the bridge train » we do not even need to make these accounts, because the concession ends next year and the political option that is required, by its basic justice, for its evident adequacy and necessity, is simply not to give it continuity, to integrate the service into the CP, to invest in the fleet, to strengthen the response capacity of the public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u141	Sir, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u142	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that with this option, the country and the public interest will win users, who will pay less, with access to the intermodal pass, win Fertagus workers, with the defence of work with rights. This is the meaning of the proposal presented by the CFP to this House. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u143	The Bureau did not record any statements on this point, so we asked Parliament's groups to do so quickly. Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say to Mr Bruno Dias that I am not surprised that the Portuguese Communist Party will once again make a statement against financially healthy companies, against companies that provide good service, against companies that have customers and quality public service. [[PCP protests.]] It is that what we have on the other hand in fundamentally public capital companies—and I am not saying that the public is worse than the private or the private is worse than the public—is, in fact, poor circulation material, non-compliance with schedules, overcrowding of the service, finally, the complaints that you know as well as I do. Now, in Fertagus, this does not exist and this fact confuses the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u145	You're misinformed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u146	The Portuguese Communist Party is horrified when there is a PPP that works well, and even makes a trick: together, in these PPPs, and in its project, the worst PPP in the world, extrapolating the numbers. And what's the worst PPP in the world? It's the southern subway on the roof. It's a trick, it's not good for you! But I understand why the CFP brings this proposal. How uncomfortable it is, because it will approve a Budget which is neither patriotic nor left-wing,... [[Protests by PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]] ... you must come to make this form of opposition and say: « Altogether, we must nationalize Fertagus! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” He advised him to read this PPP well, with all the will, because this PPP was born with Eng.o Guterres, was renegotiated by the first government of Socrates and was renegotiated by another government of Socrates.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u147	Not even the CDS is against her! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u148	I therefore hope that the Socialist Party will do — as it did — with the Port Metro — the opening of a new competition and not want to spoil what is right, because the only risk that this service has is perhaps that of the works on the bridge may condition the service of Fertagus. But even in this case, you must be careful to see if the necessary funds for maintaining and preserving the 25 April Bridge are in the State budget, because it continues to have elements at risk of collapse and I have not yet seen the opening of the necessary invitation to tender. Let us see, Mr President, that this service has about 70,000 users. In fact, because the service is good, the PCP asks for up to a new station in Val Figueira, Almada, or in Corroios, Seixal. Therefore, the PCP recognizes that this service is good and therefore asks for more.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u149	What a brilliant reasoning!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u150	The CFP also has to recognise that this concession is waiting for such a single agent model, so that it can facilitate the service, in terms of what mobility titles are. And no one is responsible for this company making the necessary use of stations and adjacent spaces, which the public company normally does not, especially the CP. [[PCP protests.]] This is called quality management.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u151	But where has the honourable Member been? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u152	But I tell you more: Mr President, you have to read the same reports and tell me if, in view of what is in the PPP contract, in the sharing of risks, Fertagus is or is not contributing much more than other PPPs and if, in the revision, there is an increase in rates, improvement of service or if the traffic limits that are foreseen are exceeded, the State cannot pick up a huge slice. That is, if the service improves, if PPP is sustainable, if there is traffic growth, the State receives. I'm going to give you another novelty: is it true that compensation is not paid in this PPP?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u153	They've been paid! They've been paid in the head! V. Exa paid in advance!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u154	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u155	Therefore, you have to assume, once and for all, if you want a degraded public service, as happens in Metro and CP, and it is in the eyes of everyone, because of the complaints that are made, or if you want a quality service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u156	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u157	I understand that the CFP does not like healthy companies, but — and I end with this, Mr President — I will give you something new, Mr President: whoever defends workers' rights better is financially healthy companies, they are profitable companies, and not the other way around. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u158	Yeah, maybe! It shouldn't have been!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u159	I'm glad there's PPP for companies to be healthy at our expense! Your party has to stop being CDS-PP and become CDS-PPP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u160	On behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that we accompany the Portuguese Communist Party in the proposal to integrate the Lisbon-Setúbal railway service into the CP. [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] We are following this proposal, of course, because we have also presented a legislative initiative on the subject, in exactly the same sense. In fact, it was not by chance that in their parliamentary days last March, the Greens reiterated the need for the implementation of the intermodal social pass in Fertagus and the South Transportation Metro while the concession was being made, thus seeking to contribute to an increase in the use of public transport and thus to take effective steps to combat climate change. We understand that, of the various modes of transport, the railway component plays an absolutely fundamental role, because an investment in rail that responds to the mobility needs of the populations, which promotes territorial cohesion and the harmonious development of the country favors a more efficient response to the environmental challenges we are facing today. Returning to PPP between the State and Fertagus, it is important to keep in mind how much this option has been and continues to be harmful to the State. From then on, this partnership is supported in public infrastructure: railway lines are public, stations are public and rolling stock is public.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u162	Pay the rent!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u163	Private? Private, just profit!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u164	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u165	Maybe that's why the CDS says they're financially healthy companies. Yes, they are! With the state entering with money, any company is! Even I, who am not even a businessman, would certainly succeed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u166	How many complaints are there?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u167	More: at the time of the invitation to tender for the award of this service, the government then prevented the CP from competing — go there and know why! — despite the COP ensuring the integration of the service into the transport system of the Metropolitan Area and the intermodal social pass.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u168	He even bought the trains!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u169	Then it is enough to look at the Court of Auditors' report for the year 2012 to understand the size of the charges borne by the State with this concession. Between 1999 and 2010, only with the granting of this service to Fertagus — which Mr Hélder Amaral says is an example — did the State enter with more than EUR 100 million. It's a lot of money, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! More: In 2016, Fertagus signed a contract with EMEF (the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, SA) worth EUR 1, 2 million, with a view to reviewing 880 components of the rolling stock, but who paid the State, was the contributor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u170	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u171	It is that PPPs have these fantastic things: privates make contracts, but who pays is the state!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u172	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u173	It happens that this concession does not only harm the State, it also harms users. Let's go on to account: by comparing the services provided by CP and Fertagus, the value that passengers save in monthly subscriptions around 41 % for the Prague-Lisboa route and 136 % for the Lisbon-Setúbal route, which well reflects the difference in the value that users support to move to their workplaces. Therefore, no one will understand—maybe with the exception of the CDS and PSD—the maintenance of this concession, which is an excellent business for the private, is true, but it is penalizing for the users, bad for the workers and worst and disastrous for the state. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u174	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers on this point. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, for an intervention, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, allow me to congratulate you. Today we meet in this House to discuss the draft resolution of the Communist Party initiative, which aims at the end of the Fertagus award and the integration of this service into the CP. Allow me, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, to share some of our view on this subject, particularly on the importance of public transport for the defence of more territorial cohesion, for the fight against congestion and the emission of polluting gases, for the fulfilment of the internationally assumed targets and also — a factor not often mentioned, but of importance — for the strengthening of social inclusion. Let me highlight in particular the issues relating to the railway sector and its strategic role in this area. The current government, with the support of the Left Block, the PCP, the Greens and the PS, has done a huge job in recovering the CP, has done a huge job to deal with what was the policy of the previous government, in its desire to invest and to unleash to privatize, which, fortunately, we have still been in time to revert to some matters. But let me tell you, frankly, that putting on the shoulders of the CP so great operation, if done immediately and without weighting, without margin of progress, could also create, at this moment, pernicious dangers. [[Rice from PSD member Carlos Silva.]] Let me tell you that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is focused more than on the legal nature of these operations — yes! — in the good public service that is provided.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u176	And is it good or is it bad? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u177	We all read the same report from the Court of Auditors' audit and, in fact, it must be said that it recognises some virtue in this agreement,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u178	It has a lot of virtue!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u179	... that you have allowed to serve users. And let me illustrate to you that, for example, the complaints that relate to statistics correspond only to 4 % of the total and there is a marked social peace in this company. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u180	PCP doesn't like social peace!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u181	Therefore, although nature is not the one we would defend, in view of the context, this agreement must be valued. I also want to tell you that, unlike the CDS, when the Socialist Party says that it does not treat public or private transport differently, tell it in truth and with its history confirms it. Even today, Members had the opportunity to visit the Collective Transport of Barreiro and see a company of a public nature with ambition and which contributes to its community. I would also like to speak to you about the PART (the tariff reduction support programme), a matter in which we have been with each other and in which the left, in particular, is of congratulations, for bringing justice and equity to this country on a matter as relevant as that of the prices of statistics. Allow me to put this talk on something as relevant as what we will soon approve, a programme to support the reduction of the tariff, which will bring social justice and make collective transport more accessible. This is the fight for which we want to call our partners, this is the fight that we will certainly fight at your side, because it is much more what unites us than what separates us. We are making every effort so that Fertagus can be included in the pass...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u182	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u183	Finally, Mr President, telling our partners that we are sure that we will count on your support to integrate Fertagus into the Single Pass of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, thus allowing — and I ask Mr President the same tolerance that he has granted to other parties — to have a 40 € pass for mobility between municipalities, an 80 € pass for families and free of charge for all passengers under 12 years of age. This, yes, is an essential measure, a measure that is very irritating to the right, because it has never had the courage to move in this. This is the challenge we leave you, this is the challenge we face, this is the battle we will win! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u184	The Bureau granted the same tolerance to the other parliamentary groups, as you certainly noticed. Mr Heitor de Sousa, from the Left Block, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u185	Mr President, I welcome all Members and all Members, particularly those of the Portuguese Communist Party, for the draft resolution that brought the discussion, which aims to end the Fertagus award and the integration of the service provided by this company into the suburban unit of the great Lisbon of the CP. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that we could be discussing this project together with a draft resolution of the Left Block with the same content, but for bureaucratic and administrative reasons recently inaugurated in this House, which had the opposition of the Left Block in the Conference of Leaders, this was not possible. in our view, this situation impoverishs the matter on which we should take this opportunity, but it does not detract from the need to return to the issue of Fertagus soon. According to what we know, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure recently said in the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works that the Government is negotiating the renewal of Fertagus' concession for the next period, which is not well known what it will be. This means that at the moment, we are attacked by a number of concerns far greater than those that can be stated in this debate, because we do not know the terms of this renegotiation and, above all, we do not know to what extent private people may have to review the availability, if this concession is going forward in terms where the government is defining its own transport policy and, above all, the tariff policy for the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon in the next period. So far, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in Mr Hélder Amaral's own words, PPP has worked well, but in private perspective,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u186	Compare with Metro South Transportation and tell me the result!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u187	... because Fertagus's PPP refuses to be part of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area transport system, it never agreed to be integrated into a common tariff and billet system and also never agreed to articulate its transport service with that of the other operators, either on the Setúbal peninsula, or on the north bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u189	Therefore, it is visible and well known that, from a people's point of view, the service of Fertagus is much more expensive, much more isolated and much less complementary to that of other transport operators.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u190	Sir, I want to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u191	I will now finish, Mr President. The discussion in which we oppose the renewal of the Fertagus grant process does not unfortunately end with the debate of this draft resolution of the Portuguese Communist Party and, for that reason, the draft resolution of the Left Block may perfectly come to be useful in a new wave of discussion on this matter, when there is an opportunity to do so. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u192	Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a draft resolution of the CFP which defends the end of Fertagus's concession and the integration of its railway service into the CFP. Alert to the backwardness that this may represent in the mobility of citizens on the south bank of the Tagus.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u195	The grant of Fertagus is a unique case in Europe because it is a company that performs a public quality passenger transport service. Moreover, the Municipal Chambers of Setúbal and Seixal associate themselves with the image of this company, when they hand over the image of their municipalities to the lettering of the carts of Fertagus. This is proof that these municipalities consider that the service provided is of quality, because otherwise they would not be associated with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u196	What a mess that's going on in that head!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u197	In addition, this company shares with the State about 50 % of the net profit provided for in the financial model and, if the revenue exceeds this amount, the State receives about 75 % of its surplus. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if damage occurs, all risk, including demand, is the responsibility of the concessionaire and there are no charges to the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u198	You've already been paid, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u199	With this model, taxpayers are protected, they have no costs, which does not happen to all other public transport services. This concession has been making profits since 2005. They'll say the gentlemen. Members, this is because the contract allows the tariff increase of about 1 % above the expected inflation. Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u200	It's too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u201	It is because this company is well managed, has public service obligations, offers confidence and quality to users at fair prices...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u202	Is one train per hour normal? Oh, my God! Is it quality? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u203	... and, as such, increases the demand for your services. In addition, it is not subject to constant strikes, it is not hostage to some trade unions, although it respects the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u204	I have an idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u205	And I say why: this satisfaction is verified by surveys of employees and, moreover, is considered one of the best companies in Portugal to work. This is perhaps the only successful PPP... [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u206	Oh, is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u207	The overall index among its customers, in the industry rankings, is classified as « very good», for issues such as safety, punctuality and speed. Mr André Pinotes Batista, not everything is right, it is true, but it is important for the government to take advantage of the renegotiation of the public service contract, to take place next year, to include the transport titles of this line in the intermodal system, which is much claimed by customers and which we will accompany. [[Protests by BE Heitor de Sousa Member.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: For us, PSD, our concern is not whether the management of the service is public, private or municipal, our concern is that the public service is efficient, sustainable and well-managed. For you, what is public must be managed by the State — it is your blind, party and trade unionist option.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u208	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u209	I will finish, Mr. President. They do not care if the services are well or poorly managed, do not worry if they serve the national interest and the Portuguese. For us, what is important is the quality of management. What motivates us is if the Portuguese come to work in hours...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u210	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u211	... with quality, no stress. It is not what has happened these days with the services provided by the CP, where you, ideologically, intend to send this concession. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u212	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It has been evident, in this debate, that the deep contempt with which the PSD and CDS disregard the lives of the people and the sacrifices they make in paying the costs of a transport which presents a difference of 136 %. The price difference between the signing of the Fertagus Lisbon-Setúbal route and the signing of the CP Azamboja-Lisboa route is 136 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u214	It's the price of a strike!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u215	You will pay €55 for the Lisbon signature for Azambuja and €131 for the Lisbon signature for Setúbal, with a train per hour! That's what you praised! Now, the CDS argument, and also the PSD argument, is that this PPP is very good because the other PPPs are very bad. And then they still remember the serious problems caused by public enterprises, which have been attacked, as never before, by the very governance of your parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u216	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u217	So now they come to say: "Look at how good they are, after the damage we have done to these public companies." Mrs. Members, we have nothing against healthy companies, the problem is when the health of them is paid by us, because what can be said is that the health of this company was paid with State funding of millions of euros, for years on end; it was paid with the sacrifice and penalty of users with exorbitant rates; it was paid with the business of shops and parking at stations, which CP does not have. The PS speaks of public transport as a factor of social inclusion, but it was important that it had not forgotten this relevant issue throughout all these years, looking at the scandal of prices practiced and charged to people. In fact, we had a PS pilgrimage thesis here, saying it was bad for CP to integrate this service into the structure of the company, as it says now 20 years later, that it was « for the benefit of the CP that we prohibit it from competing in this service ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u218	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u219	Mrs. Members, including this service in the social pass is a fair and necessary objective and this is facilitated by the integration of this line into the service of the CP, because it is automatically guaranteed. What we cannot continue to accept are these PPPs...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u220	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u221	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, what we cannot continue to accept are these PPPs that are too expensive and « live above our possibilities ». [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u222	Mrs. Members, before we move to the last item on our agenda, Mr. Secretary, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro, will announce to the House a number of initiatives which have been admitted by the President of the Assembly of the Republic. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u223	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the following legislative initiatives: draft resolutions Nos 1857 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Abolition of tolls in A25, which goes down to 6. the Commission, 1858 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Abolition of tolls in A24, which goes down to 6. the Commission, 1859 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — by the abolition of tolls in A23, which goes down to 6. the Commission, 1861 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Elimination of the collection of tolls on the Via do Infante, which goes down to 6. the Commission, 1864 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Recommends that the Government create the conditions for ratification of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, which falls to 2. the Commission, and 1865 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers, between 19 October and 10 December 2018 ; and Bill No 153 / XIII / 4. a — Alter the legal regime of combating violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows, which goes down to 12. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u224	Mrs. Members, let us then enter the sixth and last point of our agenda, with the joint assessment, in general, of the Bills Nos 1000 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Consecrates training schemes for drivers in an equal framework of criteria and with the same requirements ( first amendment to Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ), 1001 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Assigns competence to municipal chambers for the licensing of cars with a view to individual passenger transport activity on decharacterised vehicles from electronic platforms ( first amendment to Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ), 1002 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — The definition of prices and tariffs with clarity, transparency and stability and establishes an approved tariff that prevents price fluctuations, preventing the sale with injury ( first amendment to Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ), 994 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Revoking Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ( Legal regime of individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterized from electronic platform ) and 1014 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Revocation of Law No 45 / 2018 of 10 August ( Legal regime of individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterised from an electronic platform ). To begin the debate, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the initiative of the Greens, the future of the taxi sector is now back to debate in this plenary. In fact and in good rigour today, we do not only discuss amendments or the repeal of Law No 45 / 2018, we discuss much more, we discuss above all the survival of such an important sector, as is the taxi sector. We have no doubt that the Law, as it is, represents a true death sentence, in the short term, for the taxi sector. Therefore, in the perspective of the Greens, or changes the Law or this sector will be absolutely doomed to disappearance, without pain or mercy. in fact, Law No 45 / 2018, approved by PSD, PS and PAN, with the abstention of the CDS-PP, intentionally or unintentionally, has failed to resolve the serious problem of the huge and visible imbalance between competing entities, from the outset with regard to the requirements and requirements between TVDEs (transport by uncharacterised vehicle from electronic platform) and taxis. It is not by chance that it will gain the idea that this Law is a way, more or less headlong, of facilitating the claims of multinationals to hand over all the individual passenger transport activity, with all the consequences that arise there, not only at the level of unemployment but also at the level of the future of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises linked to the sector, whose revenues, it is recalled, are entirely in our country, which should also be part of the equation, taking into account the importance or its contribution to the national economy. In view of this scenario, the Greens consider that maintaining a framework of inequalities for the same economic activity is absolutely incomprehensible, in addition to unfair, and that it is therefore important to minimize at least. in this sense, seeking to contribute to limit the effects of the Law, attenuating the unfair competition that is installed and that this Law will make it more evident, The Greens present three amendments to Law No 45 / 2018. The first objective is to organize the offer and activity of TVDEs, assigning competences to municipalities for the licensing of their cars and to define their quotas, as is the case with taxis. The second objective is to define prices and tariffs clearly, transparently, stablely and with an approved tariff, as is the case with taxis, which prevent price fluctuations at the rate of algorithms, thereby preventing dumping or sales with injury. Finally, an amendment to respond to the need to establish training schemes for drivers, in an equal framework of criteria and with the same necessary applications. These are the proposals that the Greens consider absolutely decisive in mitigating the effects of a law that legalizes and promotes unfair competition between TVDE and taxis. In summary, it is an attempt, an effort to avoid the destruction of such an important sector as the taxi sector and an appeal to the parties who voted in favour of Law No. 45/2018 to review their positions on this matter, under the penalty of allowing a real check-mate to the taxi sector. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u226	To present the legislative initiative of your party, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presents Bill No. 994 / XIII / 4. the, in the sense of the repeal of Law No 45 / 2018, this infamous law of privilege to multinationals, which establishes the so-called legal regime of individual transport activity in vehicles decharacterized from electronic platform. Since the beginning we have been stressing that we are not faced with a technology problem, we are faced with a political option in inequality and in the privilege that is guaranteed to multinationals in this sector. In fact, we are facing a serious problem, which could have been avoided if there were other political options to prevail and if there had not been submission to the interests and agendas of multinationals over the years. We recall that during the previous government mandate, when we faced the then Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro, he tried to « shake the water from the hood » to the European Commission, where the strategy at the time was still to treat these platforms and these multinationals as digital service companies that had nothing to do with transport. Only later, when the Court of Justice of the European Union clarified that we were before a transport service, was that they then moved to the following strategy, which was to legalise this discrimination, this unfair competition, this privileged service that multinationals have for themselves, being above the law as to what has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u228	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u229	We have also warned about the need to get rid of this impunity that has continued to happen, and that continues to happen today, because, while we are here talking and insisting on this idea, a taxi driver can be activated by having the extinguisher in the wrong place of the car and at the same time vehicles outside the law continue to collect passengers unpunished. And, even today, the situation of forgiveness or forgetting fines, worth millions of euros, in a situation that has been, however, denounced and that we have come here to fight. We can still, despite everything, in this month of October, in which we find ourselves, prevent this problem from becoming more and more serious and more serious. We believe that the Green Party's initiative to schedule this debate for today is appropriate because the law in question, and that it was adopted by the PS, the PSD and the PAN, with the abstention of the CDS-PP, is a Law that, if it enters into force on 1 November, will bring far more serious problems than those that are already happening. That is why we appeal to the Members and to the Members. Members are the ones who can adhere to this idea, which has so many times come to recognize, to respond to the problem of inequality and injustice that is created with the regime that they have approved here. It is that this situation of there are multinational sectors, companies that can put as many cars as they want, wherever they want, charging what they want to people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u230	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u231	... it is an infamous situation, which cannot be tolerated and which we are in time to avoid, before this Law enters into force. Therefore, the CFP proposal is for a serious and in-depth debate on the overallity of this sector of passenger transport and its future, but a serious discussion which does not always have this shadow to match, the threat of the multinational privilege regime, eventually eliminating a national base sector, fundamental to the lives of people, mostly composed of cooperatives and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u232	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This item on the agenda would probably have been discussed in other terms if, on 13 days after the entry into force of Law No 45 / 2018, the Government had already had the opportunity to make a regulatory portal for this Act clarifying some of the aspects that remain somewhat nebulous. Of course, because this nebulosity has been brought not only by the indignation and widespread revolt by the workers in the regular taxi sector, but also by some knowledge, some confessions by members of the Socialist Party, who recognize in the legislation approved and promulgated by the President of the Republic that it must be clarified, despite the fact that there have been some initial threats to the contrary. Despite the questions raised by some Members of the Socialist Party regarding the application of this Law, the fact is that, within 13 days of its entry into force, this regulatory framework does not yet exist. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the data we have, it is better, in our view, to repeal a law before it enters into force than to accept that it enters into force and thus throws the confusion and complete chaos in the paid individual transport that is practised in our country, whether it is in the form of a regular taxi, or in the form of an irregular taxi, i.e. of uncharacterized vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am well aware that one of the Members who raised a almost methodical question about legislation — I mean Mr Pereira — is not on the bench yet and I don't even know if he is still in office, but he said, very recently, that one of the things that taxi drivers were right was the fact that the authorities, in particular, the municipal chambers are not called to intervene in any process of licensing uncharacterized vehicles.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u234	He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u235	The doubt that Mr Carlos Pereira or former Member of Parliament, but Vice-President of the Socialist Party's bench, brought to this debate perhaps deserved a legislative initiative of the Government, in the sense of clarifying the law and responding to a doubt and indignation of the taxi drivers, and rightly as well as of the parties on the left, who have pronounced themselves against the legislation adopted and proposed and insistently defended the amendment of the Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u236	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u237	I shall now conclude, Mr President. That is why, within 13 days of the entry into force of the Law, we can say and announce that the battle against this Law has not ended and that it will start on the day following its entry into force, under the penalty of having unfair, discriminatory and deeply unequal legislation between professionals who exercise the same profession as a driver in paid individual transport. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u238	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since there are no more entries, we pass directly... [[Pause.]] After all, there's an inscription. Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor for an intervention by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u239	Mr. President, there was another. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I was here listening to all the speeches and thinking: "You're all crazy! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” All we have heard so far were management interventions — the cement and coherence of management! [[PS protests.]] Recently, I heard Mr. André Pinotes, who had turned to management, saying: "It is much more what unites us than what separates us". Well, it doesn't look like it. Mrs. Members, I would like to remind you that today we are discussing five bills that all have the same origin — parliamentary groups of management — and the same subject — individual transport paid from an electronic platform. These five projects, all with the same conceptual and governmental origin, say everything and its opposite. Note: the Left Block and the PCP, in their desire for reversal, are so eager that they already want to reverse a law that has not even entered into force. Downgrade now to avoid major evils!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u240	That's it! Until he finally got it right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u241	On the other hand, the Greens Member, who has not been in the debate and has now been late, has pointed to the contrary: instead of walking back and forth, he wants to regulate and condition the Law, which has not yet been tested, approved and applied. Is that a PS? The Socialist Party was the one who, of all, had the most ambiguous action. The government has left us, two years ago, without such a cab law, which has failed, and the Socialist Party has completely deceived taxi drivers by finding this new fantastic solution, which was to throw everything into such a bucket of decentralization, which will happen somewhere in 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u242	It's been two minutes and I haven't said anything yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u243	These are the coherent and consistent solutions of our management! But the PSD also has a position on this. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u244	I was already having a bunch of nerves!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u245	The PSD, for the joy of management, only has one position, does not have three. Our position is as follows: if there is an activity that is socially and economically relevant, if it exists, it cannot go beyond the law. And we, Mr. Heitor de Sousa, contributed decisively to this Law being regulated by saying, in fact, that the platforms are transport. Remember-CL you'll remember that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u247	More: the PSD, in addition to doing its work, will have to do the work of the government, because if the government does not present - and it is up to it to do so - the new taxi law, the PSD assumes responsibility for bringing the issue to debate, because we will not deceive the taxi drivers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u248	You've been wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u249	And responding to taxi drivers is not to revoke the Law, it is to update them and give them conditions so that they can compete equally, with the qualities and advantages of the platforms.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u250	Same for the same thing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u251	It is not reverting, it is not nullifying, it is not « stopping the wind with your hands», it is helping to update them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u252	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u253	If you want to continue to be deceived, you can continue; we will do our part. If there are any doubts, it is clear from here that the PSD will vote against these initiatives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u254	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After this moment of self-criticism of the PSD and also of this fulanization in the debate through the intervention of the Left Block, we will be recently on the points under discussion. This debate represents another opportunity for us to discuss urban mobility and new forms of mobility, including the legal aspect of the individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterized from an electronic platform. We are once again in this debate. I recall the legislative process that led to Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August, which is certainly one of the most debated and participating diplomas in this legislation. This process began with a proposal for a law, the government, and subsequently with a draft law of the PSD. It was a process that had dozens of hearings in the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works and in the Working Group on Public Transport and several debates in plenary, which resulted in a common text, which was approved. In addition, after the veto of Mr President of the Republic, new amendments were introduced, thus welcoming the concerns of the latter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u256	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u257	The Law has been passed by a large majority and we do not see any basis for it not to enter into force, as it is being proposed today. It would also be a disrespect for the parliamentary work developed. There was a clear need to adapt legislation to new realities, and that was what was achieved in this Law, ensuring the protection of workers and consumers. with regard to the training requirements imposed on drivers with this economic activity, the publication of a portfolio by the Government is currently in the legislative process, which establishes the hourly load of training courses. at the same time, we will continue to look carefully at the traditional sector, the so-called « taxi sector ». Its public service is fundamental and we must work to implement the various measures aimed at modernising it and reducing its environmental impact, helping the sector contribute to the decarbonization of the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u258	Looks like you're talking about Serra's cheese!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u259	We reiterate, however, our understanding in favour of the law that has already been adopted. Dialogue is the only way to reach consensus. So we managed to overcome some barriers and improve the sector...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u260	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u261	... and we will continue to be available for the dialogue, posture that we have always had. On the draft laws of the Greens Ecological Party, which are also being discussed, in particular the one concerning the allocation of competences to municipalities, it is of the public knowledge that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has, at the hearing of the representatives of the taxi sector, taken up the commitment to propose their inclusion in the lists to be put to the Committee on Decentralisation. That is what the Socialist Party proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u262	You have to change the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u263	These powers will therefore be discussed by this Committee on Decentralisation. The proposals under discussion are not supported by us for these reasons. We will continue to be available for the debate in order to achieve the most consensual solutions possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u264	All this exists, all this is sad, all this is ugly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u265	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To make it clear, and taking into account the description made by Mr Hugo Costa, I wanted to say that the CDS dealt with Law No 45 / 2018 in a serious way and to respect the interests of those involved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u267	Some!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u268	I am even convinced that the Portuguese Communist Party, the Socialist Party, the Democratic Social Party, the taxi sector, the platform sector and all the other entities we heard during the year also did so seriously. I am also convinced that Mr President of the Republic, when he examined and vetoed the Law, he also did so in a serious and thoughtful way. Therefore, you must not come to say that we are before a law that has not been made seriously, thoughtfully and that does not respect the interests that are involved, which are, in fact, different, although they have contact points here and there. We have always said—in fact, as they refer to decisions of the courts and judgments of the higher courts—that, having a different business model, it has to be treated differently and that, despite not setting up taxi service, it has some aspects of contact. Mr President of the Republic says that there is a need for balance, and we are dealing with that balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u269	And you're going there...? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u270	That is why the CDS, even before the Act was voted on and before the presidential veto, presented a draft resolution that aimed at what the taxi sector requested for its modernization.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u271	Exchange coin, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u272	It's not all there, but VV. They can add what is missing and we can discuss in order to achieve the necessary balance between transport platforms and the necessary modernisation of the taxi sector. The Socialist Party could ask the Government to fulfill the promise and what is its obligation, which is to govern and present an initiative for the modernization of the taxi sector. The Greens Ecological Party is a little more coherent: it did not want to participate in the Law, which has not yet entered into force, and now appears to be unable to make proposals—it would have been useful if it had done so in the course of the discussion—but some of it still makes sense. The Ecological Party « The Greens » presented an initiative relating to the training of drivers, but Mr José Luís Ferreira, Article 10(3). the Law No 45 / 2018 refers to training. Do you know why the Law expressly refers to training as being done through the door? Because we wanted to meet what was a demand from the sector, that is, there can be no different levels of training for each other. And it's through the door for what? In order for the Government, when presenting an initiative for the modernisation of the taxi sector, in relation to the training component, to make the same requirement for taxi and TVDE(transport by uncharacterised vehicle from the electronic platform ). Once again, the government fails and the only thing I regret is that it is not reliable and does not fulfill any promises, that is, given word is not an honest word. And it's not just the taxi drivers who complain, the Socialist Party itself complains, as it was obvious. But we can go further. The Socialist Party said that we have to deal with prices. Mr. Deputy, just look at the law. It provides for maximum ceilings for prices, there is even a set of points that refer to transparency, the constitution of prices...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u273	Mr. Hélder Amaral, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u274	Mr President, there would be a lot more time to talk here, because this is a serious and very extensive matter, but I will end by saying that on the part of the CDS we have always been: we will obviously respect the work done by the President of the Republic, by the sector, by Parliament and we will vote against the initiatives that have been presented today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u275	It's all serious people!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u276	To close, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecologist Party, has the floor to address this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u277	Mr President, in this second intervention, I would like to begin by welcoming the struggle of taxi drivers for initiatives that have promoted the rights of taxi drivers and the taxi sector, which are a just cause. I would also like to say, in view of the debate here, that, as Mr Paulo Rios says, « seems to be all crazy». I mean, it's no use! [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] More, Mr Paulo Rios : in a law that is already bad, nothing will win with its entry into force. Mr. Paulo Rios wants to wait for the taxi sector to sink and then change the law? Is that what we're waiting for? Mr, it is not easy to see terms on the market for those subject to the rate imposed by the State and others subject to a free tariff. We have seen this «film» many times!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u278	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u279	Those who have the free fare will put a tariff even with damage, until they dump the cab sector, to then impose the price they want, in the form of monopolie. We have seen this 'film' several times, Mr President! Mr PS and also Mr Hélder Amaral CDS Member, if they do not agree with training, they have the possibility to agree with the other two projects. We presented three projects, exactly so that no one would say they didn't agree with one of the aspects, but that they agreed with the others. If they do not agree with training, it is a challenge for you to vote in favour of other projects on quotas and tariffs. With regard to what Mr President of the Republic has said, let us be clear. in the message accompanying the return, without the promulgation, of the diploma, Mr President of the Republic said that the diploma had only been worked and thought out for one of the competing entities, in this case, the TVDE, completely ignoring the taxi sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u280	Where to the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u281	The amendments adopted here by the PSD, the PS and the NAP following the veto of Mr President of the Republic have not solved any of these problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u282	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u283	The problems remained essentially. Competition is there, Mr. So it's not worth saying...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u284	I would like to ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u285	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying only that the remarks made by the President of the Republic with regard to the first diploma remain exactly in the same terms in the diploma that you have approved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-18.u286	We have thus reached the end of the last item and our agenda for today. The plenary will meet tomorrow at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda : there is a debate under Article 225. the Rules of Procedure, with Mr. Deputy Minister and Economics on interiority ; in point two, the Draft Law No. 830 / XIII / 3 is scheduled without time for discussion. a ( PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ) — Legal regime of the national mechanism for monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; in point three, the Proposal for Resolution No 72 / XIII / 3 is also scheduled, without due time for discussion. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Protocol to the Convention for the Suppression of the Illicit Capture of Aircraft adopted in Beijing on 10 September 2010 ; and finally of point four there are regiment votes. All Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to continue in the afternoon and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 39 minutes.]]
