ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u1	Mr. President of the Republic, Excellences, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLIV Anniversary of 25 April. [[It was 10 hours.]] In representing the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u2	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Illustre Entities, High Authorities, Distinguished and Distinguished Guests, Mr. Members: I ask you to imagine the situation of someone who goes on vacation and buys a train ticket from Lisbon to Faro. For any reason, this person cheats on the line and takes a train headed to Braga, but only realizes when the carriage is already in progress. What, of course, will that person do? Stop at the next stop, try to fix the mistake and catch, as soon as possible, a train in the opposite direction to get to the Algarve and start your vacation. What if we're wrong about the course we're doing as a society, as a civilization? on the date we celebrate 44 years of a historic moment of transformation and of invaluable value for the Portuguese, we believe that we are in a new transition period. Now is the time again to change direction and change the priorities of the political agenda. But what is so imperative that we understand that we urgently need to change our direction? The profound impact of climate change on ecosystem balance. The only thing that increases faster than our emissions is the production of words that compromise to lower them. We need to remember that the task of our time goes far beyond climate change. We need to go further and deeper. To be honest with ourselves, it is really about transforming everything about the way we live on this planet. This is a question of survival of our species and which requires a consistent and conscious change in individual and social behaviour, accompanied, downstream and upstream, by better support from the State. The paradigm of current civilization is based on the myth of separation between the self and the other: the human being, the other living beings and nature as a whole. The collective narrative is now based on a new dogma, that of development as a metaphor for unlimited economic growth, without which, supposedly, no one can be happy. This chimera, impossible to realize on a planet with finite resources, generates an increasing devastation of natural resources, mass loss of biodiversity, contamination of water reserves, pollution without borders, irreversible climate changes, the extermination of ancestral societies and an industrialization of all animal and plant life, which, associated with the growing gap between the north and the south, creates a huge and unnecessary suffering. And this pressure threatens everyone with an unprecedented ecological-social collapse. We are living above the capabilities of the planet and anthropocene can even be the last age of the human being. But, dear companions and dear traveling companions, the world and the future do not have to be monochromatic. There is a whole rainbow of options beyond the socio-economic models implemented and the possibilities we have known and perpetuated forever. Neither the extractive left nor the productive right have pointed out to us welfare solutions that do not involve enormous ecological and human costs. Continue repeating errors waiting for different results only demonstrates how irrational we are still. It's time to change the line, and we don't have much time, because the point of no return is at a distance. It is our responsibility to ensure, urgently, that this ecological crisis deserves, a transition to an economic model based on 100 % clean and renewable energy and that it promotes the energy independence of all Portuguese people, which protects the common good and does not subject the environment to economic and business interests and balances public spending with environmentally sustainable and long-term investments. This model should also ensure more time for family and leisure, intergenerational respect and better territorial cohesion. In Brussels, we must strengthen fraternity and equity within the European Union and reject all and any acts that promote aggression or encourage wars. The transition is betting and investing in the culture of non-violence. To bet on people, in addition to the speeches spending purely ideological charis, is to show them alternatives, is to give them information and training so that they can make critical assessments of reality and, above all, to give them examples of how it is possible to harmonise the balance between their personal satisfaction, environmental sustainability, the well-being and dignity of other peoples and the protection of all other forms of life. I end with a word of great gratitude to the Captains of April, for by that morning they had been our way and had made us change our line. Thank you very much! [[PPS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes and PSD Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u3	On behalf of the Green Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u4	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Members, Valuable Captains of April, Ladies and gentlemen. Guests: We're talking about April again today. And we again talk about April not only to evoke this morning but also to reaffirm the need not to lose sight of the values and dreams that April promised us. Today we are again talking about the day that should be present every day in decisions that interfere with our collective destinations, people's lives and the sustainability of our resources. And we speak again about April because April brought us freedom, democracy, concerns about social justice, the fight against poverty, the need to preserve environmental resources and because it also brought us peace. For this reason, the April military, who left the barracks on that day, preventing death on dark nights or in days like this, from going out to the streets silenced those who did not deal with fascism, but also all the women and all the men who believed in a free country and, realizing that the country most looked like the "black neighborhood", where there could not be « bread», they fought so often at the price of their lives to shake the fate of the country and the Portuguese. To each other our warmest greeting and recognition for all that April brought us, promised and allowed to dream. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, PS, PCP and BE.]] But today we speak again about April because April also brought us peace. For this reason we still do not understand the position taken by our country regarding recent bombings of Syria by the United States of America, the United Kingdom and France. We see no reason or opportunity in this bombing. Operations of this nature are always without reason, even above the margin of the United Nations and in clear confrontation with international law. If nothing is proven and when the bombing occurs just before the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPAQ ) starts its research work, we will even have to question this opportunity. It was quite right, in line with international law, and even with regard to the resolutions of this House, that the Government would be actively involved in the recognition of the State of Palestine as a way to contribute to peace in the world. That, yes, would be appropriate. That, yes, would be right. But today we are again talking about April because April is also a lesson. In fact, the immediate accession of the Portuguese to the Revolution of Claws is only possible because the ideals of April were and are in perfect harmony with the interests of the Portuguese. The April Revolution is thus a lesson that shows us that when people think about it, the people are on the side of the decision and those who take it. It is no wonder, therefore, that after having lived four years in a real suffocation, in which PSD and CDS withdrew in reforms and pensions, in wages and in the rights of those working to fatten the bank and large economic groups, the Portuguese have been able to place the parties responsible for unemployment, poverty and hunger away from the government. And the Portuguese did well, because, if the right was to continue in government, we would now be listing the universe of cuts, injustices, the multiplication of unemployment and poverty, the privatization of water and other environmental resources, the devaluation of work and the volume of tax burden on labour income and, above all, we would not see the devil go away, because the economy would continue without giving signs of life. If our democracy shows us that sometimes we are further and sometimes closer to April, with the PSD Government and the April CDS literally came from our horizon. A horizon for which the Greens have also contributed now to bring back, with more social justice, more respect for families and more respect for those who work, with an important heritage of achievements ranging from the end of wage cuts to the replacement of holidays, from the increases in pensions to the end of the tax collection on labour income, from the legal consecration of the principle of non privatization of water to the brake to the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, from the stimulus, by tax, to the use of public transport to incentives for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that settle inside the country. A heritage of achievements that would be absolutely unthinkable if the PSD and the CDS were to continue in government, but that would also be — and it would be fair to say — that is unlikely if the PS was not conditioned by other political forces, particularly by the Greens. This is an important fact, and even more important when we talk about April and the need to get closer to everything that April represents. But if it is true that the Greens welcome the path already taken, it is also true that much is still missing. The monstrous bakers of public resources, which are public-private partnerships, need to be eliminated. It is necessary to end the immorality of calling taxpayers to pay the bill of irresponsibility of bankers. It is recalled that, in the last decade, while public servants lost 12 % of their purchasing power, State aid to the bank reached EUR 20 billion. Think about it! But there is still a need to regionalize the country and bring back the ferries that are extinct by the PSD and the CDS, which we hope will not be committed to the recent agreement between the PS and the PSD, an agreement, indeed, to remember the old and undersold Central Block and all that has represented for the Portuguese. It is also necessary to remove the external barriers to our development, from the outset the budgetary treaty, because in fact we 'are not all deficits' and'much less we will all be Gaspar'. In fact, it seems to us very unwise, in view of the state of public services, from the outset of education or health, that the government decides to reduce the deficit beyond what it itself has established. No one understands the art of this path, especially when the arts claim money and public transport amend paths due to lack of investment. There is no need to combat regional asymmetries and the abandonment of the rural world and to value family farming. We need to look at our forest as a strategic sector and avoid the tragedies of forest fires. There is a lack of investment in sustainable mobility and rail development. We need to take care of our rivers and protect protected areas. There is, therefore, still a long way to go and, in our view, there are conditions for us to get even closer to April. from The Greens, while there is a road to walk and the sense is April, we will be here and there with the populations, affirming the ecological action, a commitment for the future, because the Greens also want April in the future. Long live April 25th! [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u5	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u6	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court, Captains of April, Mrs and Mrss. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on that day of April that we celebrate today, the people went out on the street and, full of strength and determination, proclaimed: "The people are the ones who command the most! And with this statement, so simple but at the same time so profound in its implications, the people took their destiny into their hands and made the Revolution. Little by little throughout the country, but with special symbolism in the siege of the Quartel do Carmo, impressive popular masses joined the April military and, shoulder with shoulder, nail in hand, forged the People-MFA alliance and began to conquer a new society. It came to an end on the long fascist night, whose negrom, over almost 50 years, had been illuminated by the courageous struggle of the anti-fascists, who did not look at sacrifices, sometimes of their own life, to return freedom to the Portuguese people. in the months that followed, with the fierce opposition of those who think that the people is only a decorative penalty in the hat of democracy, the popular masses operated decisive and profound transformations in Portuguese society. They attracted the odious fascist dictatorship to the trash can of history and built the most advanced, more progressive and more democratic social organization that Portugal has ever had. Freedom of expression, right of assembly and demonstration, freedom of association and formation of political parties, trade union freedom, right to work, right to strike, control by the State of the strategic sectors of the economy, participation of workers in the management of companies, right to collective bargaining, agrarian reform, social and cultural rights, social security system, national health service general and free of charge, universal basic education, raising the standard of life of the working classes and the people in general, recognition of the right of the peoples of colonies to independence — these are some of the important achievements of the April Revolution. None of these achievements were offered to the Portuguese people. They were all achieved by the struggle of the workers, the masses of the people and the trade union movement, in alliance with the military of the Movement of Armed Forces, achievements which, two years later, would have to find their place in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which, despite being deverted in successive revisions, still maintains the progressive and democratic spirit of the April Revolution. Exercising the achievements of April before any decision of the formal power bodies recognized them, the people claimed to be protagonist in the construction of a new and fairer society. Having returned over 40 years, we still heard certain people and certain political forces refer in a depreciative tone, and in some cases even with indisputable horror, to those intense years of revolutionary transformation of our society. It is the attitude of those who abhor democracy or simply see it as a formal process in which the intervention of the masses in political life should be limited to voting every four years. over four decades, the achievements of the April Revolution in the fields of political, economic, social and cultural rights were under the closed fire of the right-wing policy, which, in close harmony with the interests of the great capital, sought to limit its scope or even liquidate them. Particularly serious was the action of the previous government, PSD / CDS, which unleashed the most brutal attack that there is memory of the rights of workers and the people. It is no exaggeration to say that, by its intensity and scope, this action resulted in a real adjustment of accounts with April 25 and its achievements. The courageous and persistent struggle of Portuguese workers and people led to the political and social isolation of that government, the rejection of its policy of exploitation and impoverishment and, in October 2015, to its electoral defeat. [[PSD laughter.]] Here too it was confirmed, once again, that it is worth fighting. It is with the struggle that workers and peoples resist and defeat offensives against their rights and is with the struggle that opens horizons of hope. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] in the last two and a half years, in the context of a new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, with the decisive contribution of the CFP, measures were adopted to defend, restore and conquer rights and incomes, measures which, in response to urgent problems of workers and the people, are however beyond what would be necessary and possible. And if we do not go further in solving the problems of the workers, the people and the country, this is due to the options of the PS and its government, which, in line with the PSD and the CDS, maintain their commitment to the interests of the great capital and their submission to the Euro and European Union taxes. What is required is the mobilization of available budgetary resources not for the accelerated reduction of deficit and debt, but to respond to people's problems, investing in public services, the National Health Service (NSS) and in public school, social protection, public transport, forest and rural world, culture, science and research, security and justice. Portugal and the Portuguese are not doomed to perpetual submission to the guidelines and taxes of the euro and of the European Union and to the interests of the great capital. The advances achieved in the last two and a half years are not the point of arrival, they are the starting point for new struggles to conquer new advances, they are the starting point for the affirmation and construction of an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy. 44 years ago, the Portuguese people left the street and, overcoming all difficulties and obstacles, undertook the construction of a freer, fairer and more fraternal society. Today's best way to celebrate the April Revolution and the boldness of a people who have been able to transform a dream into reality is to design the values and achievements of this Revolution in the present and future of Portugal. Long live April 25th! [[Viva!]] [[Viva!]] [[Congratulations from the PCP, The Greens and PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u7	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u8	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court, of the Constitutional Court and of the other Superior Courts, High Civil Authorities, Military and Security Forces, Mr. Nuncio Apostolic, Reverend Excellency Mr. Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Most Reverend Eminence, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Representatives of the Diplomatic Corps, Illustres Invitados, Sr.as and Sr.s. Members: Today we refer to 25 April 1974, on which 44 years have passed. Forgive me the personal note, but I have to do it right now. I'm 44, too. I grew up right here in front of Parliament in front of my grandparents. I played and ran through the cuts of the grass surrounding São Bento. I went up and down many times the white ladder that almost reached the flag, sometimes curious—what would happen inside those huge doors? — others asking for my grandfather's hand and look closely. I believe that in these walks with my grandfather, your intention was deliberately to make me appropriate this space. A convinced left-wing man, who suffered from the family the agrarians destined for whom he was against, by bringing me to play in the lawns was familiarizing me with democracy, was entering into me the seat for the recently conquered freedom. So many years ago, I meet now on the side of the huge door, inside and part of this house, and I believe it was this place of freedom, then sown, which guided me. Mr President of the Republic, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic : on 25 April 2018 I integrate a generation that only knows its country in freedom and which is therefore grateful, but a generation that has still lived the painful esters of revolutionary violence that almost extinguished the rule of law that was then intended to be built. That is why it is so true, as Miguel Torga said, that today is a day of exaltation «the freedom we owe to the generosity of heroes that we had to fight right after that of generosity». With loyalty, the CDS has always stated that it does not recognize authority to those who again take over today, owners of 25 April. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Democracy is ours and must be everyone's, of those who have built it and of all who live in it, otherwise it is not called democracy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u9	Freedom has no guardianship. We therefore did not entrust the State of the time with the role of making a new man arise, as we do not yet trust today, because it is freedom that makes us citizens and places us as people, with rights and duties, in the face of political power, whether in Portugal or in the European Union, where we are builders of a common project of cohesion and solidarity: a country that respects the choice of each and every Europe that welcomes the sovereignty of each country. That is why rejecting new European taxes is today the guarantee of our sovereignty and freedom. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u10	To guarantee our freedom means to protect it. If we have gained it to an authoritarian regime, today we have to defend the tyranny of good intentions, which prevents the choice in education and health and makes people side-by-side damage to an ideology, which proclaims the defense of the social state but undermines hospitals, does not invest in public school and devalues security forces, which suggests the appropriation of private property, ignoring that it is a constitutional right, that questions the end of life and thus its value, instead of guaranteeing all the care that dignity each one, who decides about the life of people without thinking about all the consequences, some even considered unconstitutional. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This tyranny of good intentions, which resists the private initiative even when it unites and promotes the public interest, which announces that it gives with one hand and hides it with the other, which requires citizens more severe obligations than the state, controlling rather than trusting, is tyranny because it imposes a vision, inhibits choice and devalues the contradiction. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u11	Mr President of the Republic, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister : on 25 April 2018, in the 44 years of the democratic state, we have an obligation to remember the fires. It will remember them not only for the memory of the tragedy, which would be just, remember them not only for the tribute to the dead, which would be correct, but remember them because we cannot celebrate democracy if it does not mean the same for all Portuguese. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] The democratic state has failed to protect and rescue people, communities who have been left alone to fight fires, families who have been isolated in the heart of the country. Democracy is to give guarantees to everyone, because we all value the same, we live in a cosmopolitan city or in an inner village. Our freedom, like Portuguese, is only true if it is true for everyone, if it exists for everyone. And the truth is, 44 years later, April failed in June and failed in October. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on 25 April we met differently from every other day in this Chamber. Today, there is an evocation, a call to get out of the past something new, to update the meaning « whole and clean» in the « substance of time» of our time: a more complex and faster time; a time of mild opinions and voracious indignation; a time when we build but know - we are vulnerable; a time when it is essential to remember that each right corresponds to a duty and that each freedom corresponds to responsibility. Today, 25 April, the day when a country opened up for political participation and for the parties, ending the imposition of a single party, we must be aware that on the road it has changed a lot. There is less political participation, but there is a more active civil society. New forms of civic participation have been born that we must be able to recognize and value. And if we have less and less absolute certainty, less ideological manifests, we have more and more a mobilization and a desire of a new kind of intervention in search of its place, a desire that the country and Parliament cannot turn their backs on. Taking advantage of, developing Portugal today cannot be achieved with answers that have not even worked in the past. The important thing is to update the meaning « whole and clean», not to repeat April, not to go back. Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members: on 25 April 2018 it is time to find the space of freedom to confront and debate the best we wish for Portugal, without the censorship of any moralist compass, ancient or modern, without the misleading geometry of the politically correct, with the maturity of knowing that conquering freedom is strengthening responsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u12	To want freedom is to assume its consequences and ethics as a criterion. It must be this seat of freedom that guides us, this headquarters that teaches us to seek the common good from the dignity of each person, this seat of more than 10 million Portuguese that we represent and serve. for freedom, for the Portuguese, always live Portugal! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u13	In representation of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u14	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of Justice, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests: We see, we hear and we read. We cannot ignore today the erosion of rights that takes place in full Europe. Not long ago, Catalan Members sang a song that tells us so much, Grândola, Vila Morena, to overcome for a few minutes the silence wall that the European Union raised to steal their voice while legitimizing the persecution agenda of the Spanish State. That today, in celebrating freedom and in paying tribute to the thousands of men and women who have been arrested politically in Portugal, we know how to look at the world with the weight of our history, solidarity and words. Here next door, in the neighbouring country, there are political prisoners. A political solution is missing for Catalonia. The Spanish monarchy is crushing the most basic guarantees of a rule of law. in our « land of brotherhood», we know that «the people are the most ordered» and therefore we send our solidarity here to those who are currently under arrest for defending the right to decide their future. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]] in the same way, if here, in Portugal, « makes spring », if there, in Brazil, they feel « sick », if they ask us « urgently any smell of alecrim», let us access. It will certainly not be by so much the sea among our countries that we will exchange indignation for silence or insubmission of consciousness for conformation. in the political killings of Brazilian streets, we remember that in Portugal, death also came out on the street in days like this, that the bullet also carries prejudice, racism, machismo, homophobia or transphobia. But ideas are stronger than bullets, than prejudice and oppression. They can kill a man or a woman, but never their ideas. If the Brazilian Democrats call for us, there remains an answer: April country, present! We will not turn our backs and no antidemocratic blow will pass without our complaint. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Mr President, I grew up in the democracy that woke up at dawn in April and that we celebrated with the red nail that we proudly brought to our chest. That is how I wish to greet the April Captains, who opened the gates of the Revolution, and who never stopped fighting for our freedom. The democracy that has recovered the Republic has built the social state, a guarantee of solidarity and equality which April idealised. in the generation of the children of April, "we are all SNS". The National Health Service is one of the greatest manifests to the freedom and equality of Portuguese society: it welcomes and treats in the same way rich and poor, employed and unemployed, refugees or members of the government. In just over four decades, the country has designed high infant mortality rates for the best indicators of world health. Therefore, we want their security, their solidarity philosophy and their indisputable model of success to be the rule in areas where we feel unprotected and unprotected and reject the caricature that transforms them into a trap for private businesses. I was born in a public hospital, studied in a public school, and graduated from a public university. These are the giant shoulders with which we become and we can go further. My generation is not ungrateful, but does not fall into ingenuity. We see how the idea of the April Constitution of the "building of a freer, fairer and more fraternal country" is to be reinterpreted, altered and even attacked. I am the daughter of the Revolution who earned equality, but, in my generation, women still earn less than 16, 7% than men — it is as if we worked for free, in practice, two months a year — sexual harassment is part of the daily lives of all women and girls and, while domestic violence is the most murdering crime in Portugal, justice continues to be lacking in courtrooms where the heinous sentences insult us all. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] in my generation, there is still racism which is not spoken but which brutally marks the daily lives of those who do not have the white privilege. It was to my generation that they demanded that I pay to be able to go to university and that they condemned a precarious life, which they called flexibility. They insist that we are the most formed generation ever, but propaganda, like good intentions, is never seen in the receipt of maturity. They sell us promises of entrepreneurship in English, but this only translates into « top knowledge », « low-cost salary », « non-stop precariousness. My journey was that of thousands of other young people whose dreams were imprisoned by a call center, where pressure and abuse are the rule. They ask us to "dress the shirt" of the company, but they refuse to place the symbol in the contract of work. The boss is always a temporary work company that extorts us from the salary. Globalization did not bring the promised new opportunities. They said it was the way to new rights, a global citizenship, a strengthened democracy, said that this globalisation was the other face of the European Union, a space of cohesion and participation, but it was all fake news. We do not want and do not want a return to the past, because that is the precariousness of the present. We don't want and I don't want a closed country, because for that it is enough for the European Union. I want a country open to Europe and the world, which is in solidarity with peoples and their emancipatory struggles, which welcomes those who flee from war, hunger and poverty, which protects their own from the shocks of financial markets and the predation and arrogance of multinationals. In short, a country governed by the idea of its Constitution, the Constitution of April, and not by the accounts of a sheet of Excel, because the accounts that it matters to succeed are achieved not by the lens of the budget treaties, but by an economy that works for all and not just for a few. from education to housing, from justice to work, all that is lacking is for us to put on the political agenda. Is all this going to happen in a budget? No, but it certainly goes through him. And do you like the Eurogroup? Probably not either, but April never rebounded with Eurogroup. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It was not April that disappointed us, it was the caricature he wanted us to reject. The generation of the children and daughters of April reaffirms the values why so many have fought in this country, making our struggle our homage. We know from the path made and we know from the path to do. We know that we live in a country that, even with all contradictions, is different and better, because we are debtors of April 74 and of all the struggles of emancipation. This debt is our responsibility to do better, not to close our eyes, to refuse to conform to what is lacking or naturalization of retreats. We're from here and we're from the world. We grew up in the shadow of the « flower of the partisan», with the « roses» that bloomed « on the curve of the road» in this country. Long live April 25th! [[Congratulations from BE, The Greens, PAN and PS and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u15	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u16	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court, High Civil and Military dignitaries, Captains of April, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Portuguese and Portuguese: To celebrate April is to celebrate the freedom, that'morning' which is expected, 'the whole and clean initial day' that Sophia spoke to us. To celebrate April is to celebrate equality, this noble constitutional principle, so that no one will stay behind and end with human suffering caused by intolerable discrimination. It is to celebrate the freedom to change and decide and choose the destinations of the country. It is to remember lives of struggle and resistance. It is to remember the women who lived for freedom, so often forgotten for history, but who are always there, at unique and decisive times. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] They argued, adhered to causes, took risks, were convicted, suffered misunderstanding, injury and aggression, but they always fought for emancipation, education and freedom. Celebrating April is to keep well alive the memory and legacy of Carolina Beatriz Ángelo, the first Portuguese woman, pioneer in Europe, to win the right to vote. It is to remember Maria Lamas and the Women of my country. It is to remember the three Marias and the New Portuguese Letters, censored for having attacks on public morals and only not played because April happened. It is to keep the memory of Maria Barroso well alive and those moments when, through the so-called poetry, he exercised « the denunciation and participation ». [[Congratulations from the PS, BE and PSD Member Teresa Leal Coelho.]] The sacrifices of these women were not in vain! I can't imagine what it would be like to divorce and not get it, want to leave the country and have to ask permission from her husband, want to be a judge or diplomat and be prevented by the state. No, I can't imagine the world that haunted our mothers and made them live under the protection of the state and the husband, without rights and without freedom. Today, what makes us talk again and again on this date is there is nothing new to say, yes, there are new people to tell. It is important for young people and young people to know what we went to get here, to know the hard fights, of resistance, of our mothers and our parents, in which often everything or nothing was played. Celebrating April is honoring the Captains of April, from Salgueiro Maia to Vasco Lourenço, which I greet, for having made the dream happen. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] And it is on behalf of my party, on behalf of the women and men of my Parliamentary Group, of the Portuguese Socialists and Socialists who urge today and always to say: thank you, thank you, thank you! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members : I was born in the dictatorship, but I became a woman in freedom. It was in April that I learned the meaning of values and ethics, the richness of diversity and the political options that oppress or free us. throughout my life, I learned the value of freedom and the price of non-subjugation, I learned to make bridges and convergences, I learned that opportunities in women are far more scarce than in men and I learned the painful price of their conquest. It was just over 10 years ago that we ensured that no woman would be arrested when she freely decided to interrupt an unwanted pregnancy. It was recently, with this parliamentary composition, that we prevent the retrogression of this liberating law, that we ensure that all women, without any restriction, have access to assisted drug procreation and that we guarantee equal legal dignity to heteroparentality and homogenality. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] It was now, this year, in April, that we approved, in this House, with various convergences of wills, civilizational laws against human suffering and laws that will break the glass ceiling that prevents women from reaching the top places, places of power, where, after all, it decides. Women are pioneers in science and mathematics, they are artists, writers and filmmakers and they do not need favors, as the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres ; they need their rights to be fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, Portuguese and Portuguese find in the Government of their country an unquestionable desire to correct inequalities and to regain hope, a path of growth and trust and convergence with Europe. Today, we have seen the greatest job creation in the last 19 years. Families have seen their income grow in the last two years. Today there are fewer than 80 000 people in poverty. We live a new reality because we have decided to put an end to austerity. Our children and our young people are leaving school today less and access to higher education is now more democratic. I am the mother of a young architect, a profession that emerged in April and was seriously affected by the crisis. His friends, John, of the Guard, Mary, of the Way, Luís, of Mirandela, and Philip, of St. Michael, were forced to emigrate, but all and all resisted, and he himself resisted, because he loves our sun, loves our sea and the village, in Mangualde, where his grandmother still lives, 95 years old. Portugal today has more conditions to design new realities of knowledge, science, rights and citizenship to influence the world. Portugal has been and can be a force of hope and future. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: To fulfil democracy and live freedom is to hear people, to be with them, to build proximity, to hear their silences and to create, as Maria de Lourdes Pintasilgo said, a transforming political action. To fulfill democracy and live freedom is to avoid fractures and conflicts between young and old, between employees and employers, between employers and workers, between the inside, from where I am, and the coast. Complying with democracy and living freedom is not to allow any woman to be assaulted or murdered in a relationship of intimacy. To celebrate April is to inhabit the'substance' of a 'new time' that everyone integrates and no one excludes and sees 'longer and deeper', as the poet said. Politics does not serve to justify inevitability, it serves to open paths, to make people happier, and so I chose it as a transforming action. This is the value of April that we have to fulfill every day. Long live April! Long live Freedom! Long live Equality! [[P.S., P.N.A. and BE Members' applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u17	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u18	Mr President of the Republic, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, honourable Members and Members, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Presidents of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court of Justice and the other Superior Courts, Former Presidents of the Republic and of the Assembly of the Republic, other Civil Authorities, Academics and Military, My Ladies and Gentlemen : Commemorating the anniversary of 25 April is a responsibility and a pride for the Assembly of the Republic, and doing so is neither the mere fulfilment of a duty, a meaningless formality. Commemorating April 25 is to pay tribute to all those who fought and resisted a dictatorial regime and who, on that day, in the name of the Portuguese people, freed the people, to return to the people the conduct of their destiny. [[PSD applause.]] It is also time to thank the military who fought in the Colonial War, whether or not they agreed to the overseas policy. We thank the many who have perished and those who have survived. We are especially grateful to those who broke the colonial war cycle, giving hope to the child who said: "When I am great, I will not fight! Do not keep on seeking. ” Commemorating this anniversary is honoring the democratic regime in which we live, founded in the Revolutions of April 74 and November 75. We proved that freedom is stronger than fear. We live in a democratic regime that was implemented with the approval of the 76 Constitution and consolidated with the 82 constitutional revision. To honor this regime is to say that Portugal is a Republic that recognizes the primacy of the dignity of the human person, that Portugal is a State where respect for and the guarantee of fundamental rights and freedoms are not negotiable. Forty-four years later, it's important to ask: what have we achieved and what are you doing? And we've got so much! in recent decades, 21 governments have been fulfilling the constitutional plans to ensure a social state with health, education and equal opportunities for all people, seeking that Portugal is increasingly a country where no matter who we are, who our parents are, where we come from, what we believe, who we love. The new generations therefore look gratefully at what the generations that preceded us gave us: to them, many of you, the educational system, the National Health Service and the independence of justice as there are and so many other achievements in the most diverse areas of government. We, the younger ones, have had, since we were born, access to opportunities with which previous generations could only dream. We are therefore the product of a dream Portugal. The fact that my generation was born and has always lived in freedom does not mean that it lacks to defend that freedom or that it forgets that our country has not always had it. Because freedom is founded on a day but it is not built on a night, it is recovered on a date but it is conquered every day and has to be conquered and reconquered every day. [[PSD and PS and CDS-PP applause.]] A freedom that is mine, that is yours, that is ours. It is from Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, who I congratulated here, and who could see his party emerge from the clandestine and enter a parliament elected by the people. It is from Mrs Catarina Martins, who I do here, and who has never had to stage a piece censored to « blue pencil ». It is from Mr. Carlos César, that I here welcome, and from the Socialist Party, that on that day he could see his founders return home. It is from Mrs Assumption Cristas, who I have met here, and who could be a mother of family and have a successful professional life also because of that day. And it's from my party, the Social Democratic Party, which, founded on the Dealbar of Democracy, never let go of the dream of reforming Portugal, for the better, for tomorrow, for the future. [[PSD Applause]] It's from Dr. Rui Rio, who here I greet, and who could be student leader in freedom also because of that day. It is from all women, to whom I wish to congratulate here, for whom April meant a broad step in the direction of equality between men and women through the realization of the right to vote or freedom of movement, among many other achievements. There is much to be done, and the Portuguese people are waiting and demanding of every political leader to do more, to do better. Mr President of the Republic, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic : Portuguese policy has become increasingly fragmented, in a repetition of divisions between us and them. We, the politicians, and they, the people; or we, the people, and them, the politicians; we, the young men, and them, the oldest; those of the capital, and those of the rest of the country; those of the interior and the coast; those of the city and of the field; those of Madeira, or of the Azores, and those of the Continent; those of our party and those of the other parties. Politics and democracy cannot continue to feed these divisions. Parliamentary activity is not a championship where our winning or losing and one's victories are the defeats of others. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]] Parliamentary activity has to demand that people win, that the country win, because, too often, for the parties to win, they are the people who lose. And I say without wheels: there are matters in which we do not hear enough of what the people are demanding. It is perhaps the most central of these issues to combat corruption and the defense of the state and public history of capture by particular interests. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u19	We must have the courage to reform the political system by introducing transparency so that all the interests concerned are known in all the decisions taken by the public authorities. Transparency must be the rule of democratic functioning, and it is important to remember that the example comes from above. The opacity serves only the precursors, the least serious, the corrupt ones, under a blanket that covers them, the generalization: « they are all equal». But no, they're not all the same. We're not all the same. We must therefore ensure, in general, that everyone must have the right to know who, when, how and why the public authorities decide what they decide, what it costs us today and what it will cost us tomorrow. Mr President of the Republic, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, and what are you going to do? A Portugal to do in education. More than 30 years after the adoption of the Basic Law of the Educational System, it is important to reflect on the education of the future we want. A Portugal for doing in health, with the National Health Service marking 40 years in 2019. We must ensure, without exception, the universal coverage of health care in a reasonable time and with sufficient resources, regardless of the economic, geographical or age condition. A Portugal to do in culture. It is not acceptable for culture to be the poor relative of governance. Culture has neither left nor right, it must be free and not programmed politically. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] A Portugal to do in territorial cohesion, because Portugal to be built must be a whole country and not a divided country — divided between those living in large metropolitan areas or the rest of the country. And today we do not forget those who do not celebrate with us on April 25, 2018 because they lost their lives or lost their families in 2017. A Portugal to do in employment and in combating precariousness, in a divided country, where to defend the rights acquired from one another sacrifice the basic rights of others. All workers must be guaranteed the same rights. [[PSD applause.]] A Portugal to do in social security, because a country that intends to forget the new generations is necessarily a country to be built up. A Portugal to do for young people, for a country that takes advantage of the strength, creativity, energy, imagination and initiative of its young people and to whom conditions and opportunities are given so that they can prove that they are capable, who do new things and who do them well. Many regret that everything is urgent for young people, but in this case it is indeed so. Portugal cannot wait. A Portugal to do in intergenerational solidarity, because, in one hand, technological innovation cannot produce new excluded in older generations, which lose access to fundamental services and rights when they are electronically mediated, and because, in the other hand, debt limits the freedom of choice of new generations. You cannot accept such a heavy burden for the new generations. A Portugal for inclusion. We are all responsible for those people who are not fully recognized or guaranteed their fundamental rights: poverty, gender, ethnicity, race, nationality, descent, faith, sexual orientation or political conviction. We must ensure equal opportunities and the inclusion of all those who live here, eliminate all the factors of discrimination and intolerance, all the crickets that arrest freedom. The generation that dreamed and fulfilled the Revolutions of 74 and 75 made it possible for us, their children, to live in dream Portugal. I was born in the year that the Berlin Wall fell, and the Portuguese people deserve us, their representatives, to be able to realize this Portugal to do, to break down the walls of injustice and unjustified inequality. And to all those who hear us today, here in Parliament, in any corner or corner of Portugal, by television, radio or social networks, to all Portuguese who hear us spread around the world, on any metropolis or isolated of civilization on any continent: each of us has its own history, which is unique, but our destiny is collective, shared, is to dream again and make a Portugal for the next generations. The strength of our country is not measured by the strength of its weapons, but by the conviction of our ideals; it is not measured by the strength of the most powerful, but by the hope and dream of fulfilling Portugal. As Torga wrote: "I am not free, I am not, that my own life/ me consents/ But my bold theimosia/ It is to break day by day/ A grail of the current/Free am not, but I want freedom/I bring it within me as a destination". Long live Portugal! [[PSD, standing, CDS-PP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u20	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court, Mr. Presidents of the Court of Auditors and the Supreme Administrative Court, Mr. Former Presidents of the Republic and ladies, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mr. President of the City Council of Lisbon, Mr. President of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs. and Mrs. Vice-Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic and Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, Attorney-General of the Republic, Ombudsman, Representatives of the Republic for the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, Mr. President and Vice-President of the Legislatures of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores, Mr. Vice-President of the Regional Government of Madeira, Mr. Former Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic and Prime Ministers, Mr. Councillors d'État, Mrs and Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Chiefs of the Staff of the three branches of the Armed Forces, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the European Parliament, Mr Nuncio Apostolic, Dean of the Diplomatic Corps, members of the Diplomatic Corps, other civil and military authorities, Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Mrs. Councillors of the Revolution, Mr. President and members of the Association Directorate 25 April, Illustres Invited and Invited, Excellencies, My Ladies and Gentlemen : The solemn session of 25 April is always special for Portuguese democracy, but this year is even more special because this year the Constitution of the Republic adopted in 1976 exceeds the Constitution of bad memory of 1933. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] A proof of maturity of our democratic regime, consolidated by the struggle of our people and born of the leadership courage of the Captains of the Armed Forces Movement. Here I therefore leave a worthy greeting to the Captains of April and the Association of April 25, in the person of Colonel Vasco Lourenço, whose presence greatly honors us. [[Congratulations from the PS, BE and PSD Members.]] We were all very young and still here, 44 years later, always ready for the fights of democracy. The Portuguese Armed Forces are a pillar of national identity. 44 years ago, they were once again able to interpret the national interest, overthrowing the dictatorship and opening the way to the country we are today: a democratic, solidarity and open to Europe and the world. 44 years ago, Portuguese society confronted itself. Having become part of a Revolution, with its triumphs, mistakes, excesses and contradictions, is an extraordinary moment in our lives. Unforgettable times. We didn't put the trash under the carpet or leave skeletons in the closet or ghosts in the attic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] from this revolutionary phase was born a more democratic, fairer and more cohesive society, which today celebrates, a little throughout the country, this popular party, this national feast that is April 25th. National cohesion and language, the security environment, the climate of confidence and democratic stability are today undeniable comparative advantages of Portugal. Some of these advantages are structural, others, such as the recovery of trust, are the merit of political leaders. Allow me here, in this regard, to highlight the role that has been played by Mr President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. I say this here, and I say it everywhere and where necessary: it has an important share in the merits of the results of Portugal in recent years and an exemplary relationship with the Assembly of the Republic and with the other bodies of sovereignty. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, My Ladies and gentlemen : Portugal has its own strategic challenges that go beyond the time of the legislatures and that must be embraced now, with the greatest possible consensus. The strategic commitments in no way undermine the existing programmatic divergences. on the contrary, those who are sure of the points of disagreement are also in better condition to understand what goes beyond the broad different guidelines of economic and social policy. Democracy needs moments of compromise and does not dispense with the comparison of alternatives. I believe that the health of our party system is precisely based on this ability to generate clear alternatives. Forty-four years later, the Portuguese democratic regime shows that it always has solutions, even under the most difficult conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, Excellencies, in 2019, April 25 is 45 years old. We walk long steps for half a century of democracy. It is a timely time for collective memory exercise and democratic mobilization with a sense of the future. The Assembly of the Republic shall, within its own resources, be in the front line of that exercise. Because we understand, faithful to April's inconformism, that the project of freedom, democracy and solidarity is always an unfinished project. Because we know that there is no better regime than democracy, and because we believe that the best of democracy is yet to come. [[PS and PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] April was announced with three dds: democratize, decolonize, develop. Decolonization was for a long time almost taboo matter and colonial experience subject to fantastic recreations. Finally, with the new generation of April, a critical look emerged on this colonial past, now present in plastic arts, cinema or social sciences. The challenge now is to bring this discussion to another level, capable of promoting in the public space a historical, democratic and cosmopolitan culture. for our part, the Assembly of the Republic, we will not fail to contribute to the promotion of this historical culture. Colonialism is a theme that will not be forgotten next year, in which 150 years of the abolition of slavery throughout the Portuguese empire are marked. We will do the same exercise of memory in relation to the other two: democratization and development. Development — over these 45 years many political, economic, social and cultural rights have passed from the constitutional text to the daily life of Portuguese. It's impressive the way made. Portugal has developed quite well in these 44 years. We now live in 2018 a new political, economic and social environment, after a very complex period, with profound impacts on poverty and social exclusion. When I think of that period, I do not fail to admire myself with the strength of our institutions and with the remarkable role that trade unionism and constitutional counterweights have played. We are today fortunately faced with indicators that inspire us, and I am not only referring to macroeconomic and financial indicators, perhaps most well known of all. Portugal has reached the lowest level of inequality ever and yet we are still one of the most unequal countries in the European Union. The risk of poverty has decreased, particularly among families with children, a group that is always vulnerable and particularly affected by the crisis and, however, we are still from the poorest countries in the European Union. A country marked by high levels of poverty and inequality is a country with less balanced accounts and less growth potential, besides, of course, being an unfair country. If we give so much visibility to entities dedicated to the assessment of economic deficits, why should we not listen with the same attention as those who devote themselves to social deficits? The April Revolution is an heir to the values of freedom, equality and fraternity. We are a solidarity society, as few. Civil freedoms have advanced as in a few countries, but we must recognize that in the area of equality we still have a long way to go. And here comes the d of democracy. The Portuguese political system compares well, in terms of performance, with other democratic systems. For example, the path to equality between men and women in institutions is not yet complete, but it has been very important, as we have indeed been able to witness today in this Chamber. And I am glad that it is, because on 25 April it was also done by women and women. [[Congratulations from the PS, BE and PSD Members.]] But it is, in fact, very much in terms of economic and social inequalities that democratic performance needs to improve. In the last Eurobarometer we saw that 96% of Portuguese consider the differences in incomes in our country excessive. in this sense, in addition to social benefits, taxation, public services, in particular of our great National Health Service, we can also act in the amount, in the pre-distribution, in the conditions of representation and negotiation of the world of work before the labor, technological and global transformations that we go through. It would, however, be tantamount to summarizing some global democratic disenchantment to a purely economic and social explanation. Let us not ignore the autonomous nature of politics and respond to the return of politics with marketing and technocracy. Above all, we do not respond to the mistrust of democratic institutions with logic that only serve to reduce political activity in the eyes of citizens. [[PS and PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The answer is on the social issue and will also be in the democratic renewal of the institutions. No prejudice, no idea made, no lie should be left without the democrats' answer. The criticisms and even admissible political attacks are desirable, even to Parliament and to the Members, but they are not acceptable attacks of character, regardless of the target, of any parliamentary group or political party. [[PSP, PSD, CDS-PP and PCP Members applauded.]] As long as he is President of the Assembly of the Republic, unjust attacks will always have an answer and correct criticism will always be a driving force for change. It is thinking about the future of democracy and the new generations that we are developing here, in the Yellow House of the Assembly of the Republic, the project of the interpretative centre, a tribute to constitutionalism and democracy, which we hope to inaugurate in 2019, thus marking the 45 years of April 25. I also wonder whether the Assembly of the Republic should not give a stronger signal in order to strengthen the opportunities for political participation. We don't have a lot of people participating and a lot of people participating. We must seriously assess the possibility of extending the scope of limitation of mandates and accumulation of positions and consider effective incentives for exclusive dedication in Parliament. It is time to make this reflection, to listen to civil society, so that, in the next legislature, we can decide safely. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to end up saying with enthusiasm to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the members of the Government, the leaders of political parties and parliamentary leadership, the Members, the officials, the journalists and the guests present here. To everyone, I say: Long live on April 25th! Long live Democracy! Long live Portugal! [[General applause.]] Mr President of the Republic will now send a message to the Assembly of the Republic. You have the floor, Mr President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u21	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Superior Courts, Mr. Former Presidents of the Republic, President of the Assembly of the Republic and Prime Minister, Mrs. Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen. Captains of April, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Excellency, Ladies and gentlemen: Forty-four years have passed over the first date of the democracy we are today, and however repetitive some seem, or because they resist what has changed or because they have never known what it was before or because they want beyond what they live, they must sign and thank. To point out that, without 25 April 1974, it would have been longer, more suffering and more complex the exterior of the dictatorship and, above all, the compassion of waiting for freedom and democracy. To thank one, ten, twenty, thirty, forty, forty-four times and all that follow in the future to the April Captains, who took the step without which the devoted struggle of so many decades would continue a deferred dream. [[General applause.]] For the Captains of April here present and for all who have already left, but who continue in our thought, the certainty that we do not forget, do not forget, do not erase. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, not yet 20 days ago, in La Lys, we paid tribute to our heroes killed in fighting a few months after the end of the Great War and, in November, we will again be on the parade of victory in Paris, recalling the thousands of Portuguese who served the homeland in dramatic conditions in Europe, in Africa, on land, in the sea and in the air, 100 years already gone by, more than enough time to remember the past and withdraw lectures for the present and for the future. Let us remember the past, the cruel division of Europe, the intense and even dramatic national debates on involvement in the war, the so-called « Government of Sacred Union », the unforgettable departure of President Bernardino Machado to the Portuguese Expeditionary Corps in front of the battle and our allies in the common challenge, the very accidental preparation and difficult resistance of our Armed Forces, faced with shockingly adverse situations, the dreamed legitimate, internal and external role of the Portuguese military presence for the emerging Republic, encompassing the defense of the colonies and, above all, the right to participate in the moment of victory, with the inherent political consequences. At the same time, and in contrast, the worsening of the economic and social, internal and external situation, and the corrosion of the political system during the years of war, the authoritarian appeals from the bourgeois possessing and conservative and political and religious currents in comparison with the republican power, but also, above all, after La Lys, military sectors, the presidency of Sidonia Pais, on 18 April 1925, the marked path of political weaknesses, economic scandals and social repressions for the 1926 military dictatorship, later designed in the Constitution of 1933. Of course, history goes far beyond this summary of a period of years of war, which has lasted for many more, and any parallel with what was to be Portugal in the 60s and 70s, or in the 80s and 90s, or in this 21st century is obviously subject to fair and incisive reparations. Nevertheless, let me underline some traits that may raise reflections for other times and in them the present and future of Portugal. First reflection: Europe has always lost itself by dividing itself and gained, however little it might be, by joining or, at least, by testing convergences, by preventing war and sedimentating peace, and the path to these convergences has been and is necessarily demanding, however challenging, and must never forget the most important Europeans, on behalf of which Europe is built. Second reflection: the Portuguese Armed Forces constitute a nuclear factor of national identity, in times of grace as in times of proof, so strong that 100 years ago the aggravations that have suffered accelerated the end of the Republic, even if it became impossible to return to a monarchic regime, so strong today that it is set up as indissociable from democracy. For this reason, the military institution, sometimes hasty and erroneously seen by some as a reminder of the past and not as a guarantee of the present and bet in the future, maintains, not to say that it prevails, centrality when democracy is strengthened or more broadly the national unity is built. To affirm it is always imperative, to act accordingly is even more so. Third reflection: the ability to renew the political system and to respond to social systems to anticipate challenges, to prevent errors or omissions, to stay close to citizens and their problems is essential in order to avoid phenomena of lassity, inorganic and anti-systemic opposition and of skepticism against parties and economic and social partners, this being true that in a democracy living the most decisive of politicians are and must be the citizens. Let's not minimize it! The voids that are left by the institutional protagonists will feed dangerous temptations of populist appeals and even sebastian, messianic or providentialist illusions. But even if these appeals and illusions believe that the strong power dreamed of is that of a person, a party, an economic group, a social partner, a public or private institution, is compatible with democracy, it is true that the resulting drift would always be non-democratic. Democracy assumes a balance of powers, made of weights and counterweights. It is this balance that allows, even in the oldest democracies, to moderate tropisms for populist leaders in form or content. on the day when the balance of powers was broken, to which our Constitution calls separation and interdependence of powers, we would be entering the very dangerous terrain, conducive to disillusionment, self-convention, arrogance, the atrocity of the Constitution itself, the laws and the rights of people. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Fortunately, 100 years later, we have already lived enough, between the 20th century and the beginning of this century, to know what strengthens our national unity, namely the structural role of the Armed Forces, the need for continued renewal of the political system, the sustained creation of conditions of growth and employment, the acute perception of social reality and, in it, of poverty, its risk and personal and territorial inequalities, the effective fight against corruption in people and institutions, the systematic prevention of messisms one or some allegedly for the salvation of others. Therefore, we do not confuse patriotism, that we pride ourselves, with hypernationalisms claustrophobic, xenophobic, which embarrassed us, nor confuse the prestige or the more or less conjunctural popularity of one or more possessors of power with obsessiveness or saving vocation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We remember as well as, 100 years ago, a poorly resolved political, economic, social and cultural situation led to decades of promising what, in addition to sacrificing inalienable rights and freedoms, if you saw that you could not meet: the eternal colonial empire, the monocratic dictatorship living beyond your creator, the certainty that the alleged internal happiness would dispense integrations on a continent and in a changing world and, before that, the conviction that you would never be present at the departure of those — and more than one million — who dared to search out what they did not find in here. It was this unfair, repressive and impossible model, dreamt of 26, 33 and 40 as resistant to everything and to all, which was sobriety in 1974, or rather exhausted much earlier, but he only saw certified on that date by the brave hand of the Captains of April, his emptying. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore conclude by starting with the historic date which brings us together today: on 25 April 1974 it is part of the personal memory of the majority of those present in this evocation, which, however much it may be said that one day will be forgotten, because banal or remote, it will never disappear from the collective memory. The brief revival by the centenary of the Great War only confirms this: celebrating April 25th in Portugal of 2018 is also learning to prevent the routes that lead to paths that we all know are undesirable, although many of those of 100 years ago. Various, because today's messians—are alien experiences that demonstrate it—they hide behind democratic appearances, use more effective media powers, have more seductive contours, even if they continue to promise impossible paths, to feed unrealistic illusions, to sacrifice essential freedoms, to dedicate monopolies of truth and to spend long, lost time for the whole collective. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is not that today— nor can it ever be in the future—that is our way of building freedom, social justice and, therefore, democracy and, more broadly, internal cohesion and the external projection of our homeland. No giving in principle can be admitted and no time can be lost. It is the Portuguese who demand it! It is Portugal that imposes it! Long live April 25th! Long live Portugal! [[General applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-25.u22	I declare closed the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLIV Anniversary of 25 April. [[It was 11 hours and 38 minutes.]]
