ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u1	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to the proposals of lein 113 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Typify the crime of aggression by amending Act No 31 / 2004 of 22 July 2004 adapting the Portuguese criminal law to the Statute of the International Criminal Court, which falls below 1. the Commission, and 114 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the regime for the prevention and control of legionaires' disease, which falls to 11. the Commission and the motions for resolutions 67 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the International Agreement establishing the International Foundation for the European Union / Latin America and the Caribbean ( EU / ALC ), signed on 26 October 2016, in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, which falls to 2. the Commission, 68 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the protocol amending the Convention between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Republic of India to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion in income tax matters ( signed in Lisbon on 11 September 1998 ), signed in Lisbon on 24 June 2017, which falls to 2. the Commission, and 69 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 12 December 2016, which falls to 2. the Commission. Bill No. 805 / XIII was also introduced ( 3. ( a ) — Exemption from non-emergency payment of patients ( 10th amendment to Decree-Law No 113/2011 of 29 November 2011 ) ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission and draft resolutions Nos 1416 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the National low carbon road 2050 and cease the possibility of prospecting hydrocarbons in the Peniche basin ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1417 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By the effective identification and rehabilitation of sites contaminated on the third island by the military presence of the United States of America ( PAN ) and 1421 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures to the Government for the re-qualification of the Basic and Secondary School of Rebordosa, in Paredes ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u3	We will start the first item on the agenda, which is part of the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, on structural prevention and integrated fire management. To open the debate, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The next day will be one year ago that the Government approved in the Council of Ministers a set of proposals which constitute the reform of the forest and which have essentially been approved by this Assembly of the Republic in July last year. in these six months, we not only simplified the conditions for the establishment of forest intervention zones ( FIF ), as we created forest management entities ( FEG ), which allow the lease of small properties so that they can be exploited on a larger scale, which is an essential condition for the valuation and sorting of forests and for the use of fuel mass. In order to achieve this, tax incentives for the establishment of these entities have already entered into force on 1 January, and the mobilisation of investors is under way. It is now necessary to lead to the end of the implementation of the rural and forestry register, whose pilot project has already started and which has more than 12 000 registered buildings and 50 000 agendas to the end, having to conclude the process of planning with the approval during this semester of the different regional forest planning plans (PROF). The structural effects of forest reform, as we all know, will only be visible in the long term, but, like any long-term plan, immediate measures are needed to ensure the reduction of fire risk. Prevention must be taken as a priority, either by reducing the fuel load, or by strengthening teams that take care of the forest throughout the year. Thus, and as approved in this House, the competition is open for the establishment of 100 new forest slag teams, to which 21 inter-municipal technicians, relating to the 23 inter-municipal communities (IMCs) and 55 new nature watchers are joined. We have presented, a week ago, the priorities for the installation of primary and secondary networks for the defense of interrupting bands, for the control of vegetation and cleaning of roads and steel in areas of the State and, since now, all competitions for the execution of works are open not only on public property, but also on private property. By October, we had launched an investment of EUR 28 million to enable the infrastructure in Portugal to carry out the protection tracks on the railway lines and on the roads under its management. In order to have a dimension of the extension of this work, this will involve the cleaning of about 20 000 km linear. Natural parks and protected areas stand out in our fire prevention programme. After testing last year at Peneda-Gerês Park, the pilot project with which we managed to reduce the area burned by 50% compared to the previous year, we now extend this project to four new natural parks. The cleaning of forests is a fundamental step towards having a more resilient and fire-resistant forest, a forest that contributes to the vitality of the rural world, which is a source of income for populations, employment fixing and not a threat to everyone's safety. It is therefore a priority to comply with the legislation which requires the cleaning of private property, an obligation which first imposes on the owners. What is now required is the same as it has been required since 2006, except that over these 12 years it has always been beyond compliance. I want here to welcome the enormous collective effort that is under way throughout the country. Never, as in these months, has there been such deep awareness of the duty of all to contribute to prevent summer fires. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was in this sense that the Government created a set of mechanisms that clarified the criteria and facilitated the fulfilment of that obligation. Two lines of credit were set up for the financing of cleaning operations: one of EUR 40 million for private owners; and another of EUR 50 million for the authorities who have to substitute themselves for the owners for this task, and can hire the services necessary for this purpose by using direct adjustment and even granting the prior visa of the Court of Auditors. In addition, and until the owners fulfill their obligations, the municipalities can take administrative possession of the land and collect the profits of their income. It should be stressed, however, that the deadline for voluntary compliance today did not withdraw from the owners the duty to do the cleaning they are about to do, nor did it transfer from the owners to the authorities that charge. From today on, the only thing that changes is the fact that the obligation on the owners to increase the power of the authorities now can, in a subsidiary way, intervene where the owners spontaneously have not done so. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Following the unanimous recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission set up in this Assembly of the Republic following the tragic fires of Pedrogan and Gois, we started in October 2017 the reformulation of the firefighting strategy, approving a set of measures that will provide the country with the means necessary to ensure maximum efficiency of the system. The restructuring of the model implies cross-sectional changes, to be implemented in the medium term, which ensure a better articulation of the pillars of structural prevention, operational response and post-fire surveillance. Already this year, the priority will be the safety of citizens, reducing risks, preventing threats, alerting to dangers, protecting contingencies and helping in the disaster. Next week we will launch the ‘safe village’ and ‘safe people’ programmes. As for the first program, we will work in close coordination with the municipalities and the parish in raising awareness of self-protection, in signaling escape paths and places of refuge, in performing simulations and in acquiring protective equipment. As for the second programme, together with ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) and communications operators, we will work to create new channels to inform the population, especially in situations of greater risk, and alert systems in order to make our communities more resilient and adapted to fire. We have also strengthened this year the fighting device that will have more human resources and equipment for immediate application. Already this summer, we will have on the ground 600 more elements of the Republican National Guard — between 500 elements of the Protection and Relief Intervention Group and 100 elements of the Nature and Environment Protection Service — plus 79 new Permanent Intervention Teams in the different bodies of volunteer firefighters, to which 200 new forest guards are joined, as well as the effect of the Armed Forces needed to strengthen the device. at the level of the equipment, the investment was reinforced in vehicles, baggage and individual protective equipment, in addition to the reinforcement of the SIRESP network ( Integrated System of Emergency Networks and Safety of Portugal ), with four new mobile antennas and 451 satellite antennas installed in areas of greater danger, which can ensure greater resistance in situations where physical communication elements may collapse, complementing also the strengthening of the surveillance systems that will be applied on aircraft of the Portuguese Air Force.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u5	Mr. Prime Minister, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to synthesize.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u6	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, last summer has shown us how unwelcome it is to solve the structural problems we have faced decades ago and that, in the context of climate change, they have been aggravated. The appreciation and defence of the forest requires not only a reform of the sector that protects its resources and promotes its assets, but also a new model to prevent and combat fires. I shall end by reiterateing the call for a national mobilization for this cause. The President of the Republic and you, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, have already accepted the invitation of the National Association of Municipalities to participate, together with the members of the Government, in the process of cleaning the forest that will be promoted on 24 and 25 March. I leave here an appeal to all the benches to join us as well to make March the great month of cleaning the forest, because it is now better to fight the summer fires. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u7	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Fernando Negrão, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, I welcome it and begin my speech respecting the spirit of the PSD initiative which took unanimity in this House and which led to the creation of the Independent Technical Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u9	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u10	I want to tell you, Prime Minister, that all measures to be taken and to be in favour and for the protection of populations will have the support of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u12	But, Prime Minister, there are issues that have not been resolved, which have not been resolved since July last year and which are going through old problems, which have been discussed for a long time. I would like to point out to you examples: air resources for which there are many doubts and concerns about their management for the next time of fires; urgent tenders that do not have competitors, so we will probably end up in direct tenders, which, as Mr. Prime Minister well knows, are much more expensive and much more opaque than normal tenders; problems in support of restructuring; huge disparity in support of the populations; equal situations that are treated differently.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u14	And the complaints from the people are very large in this matter. Moreover, there are draft resolutions submitted by all parliamentary groups to ensure that equal situations are treated equally, and that is not what has been done by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u16	Mr. Prime Minister, there is great instability in the district civil protection commands. No one knows what the planning of the next season will be and nothing has been learned from what happened in 2017, where changes have been made in district commands on the edge of the fire season. It's all late, Prime Minister! There are district commands that are not yet complete, particularly in areas where fires are a constant danger, such as in Beja, Coimbra or Viseu. Mr Prime Minister, on the cleaning of forests, I would like to tell you that this requirement was important and that the determination with which it was made was important, but the guidelines were contradictory, were confused, and this created much fear in the populations. I would say, even, Mr. Prime Minister, that the victims of the fires felt threatened by the deadlines for cleaning the forests and fines. It is not acceptable that, after what people have gone through, they feel threatened with confused and poorly given guidelines. It's not admissible, Prime Minister! [[PSD applause.]] That is why I ask you, on this matter, what the Government has already done in the sense of people may feel more protected. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u17	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President and Mr Fernando Negrão. Mr President, I am pleased to see that the PSD has reconciled with its own proposal for the creation of the Independent Technical Commission. [[What?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u19	It was a very important step that the Government decided to respect and therefore, with complete serenity, waited for the Independent Technical Commission to complete its work so that we could evaluate its results and translate them into a resolution of the Council of Ministers adopted on 21 October, i.e. a week after the report was submitted by the Independent Technical Commission. Our programme is precisely the programme of the Independent Technical Commission. Secondly, I would like to tell you that, of course, we have old problems, particularly in the desvitalization of the interior, in the disorder of the forest and in the very planning of the system of prevention and integrated management of rural fires. In short, the Air Force will submit its final report on the decision we have taken, in agreement with the recommendation of the Independent Technical Commission, so that it can take full command of the firefighting operation. As regards this year, having the Air Force said that before 2019 it was not permissible to take up these functions beyond a strengthening of the surveillance components, in December 2017 the air media competitions were opened and one of them, concerning light helicopters, was completed and awarded, and the other air media competition was deserted. And, having remained desert, it was now, in March, opened a new contest to hire the other air forces, being premature to say what will happen. But what is essential is that we achieve what is planned for this year, which is a reinforcement of 48 to 51 air resources, in order to have a more muscular capacity than we had in previous years. The hope I have is that this competition will run better than the previous competition. As regards what is being planned, the Single Operational Directive has already been published in the Journal of the Republic, which involves all the different operations that will be involved in the device, and we are not aware of any change in any district command. With regard to cleaning, there was something that was absolutely essential: there was the awareness of a duty that has been reflected in the law for more than 12 years. Few people were aware of their existence and little was done to accomplish it. Today, there is an indisputable fact: there has never been so much awareness of the contribution that we can all make to prevent fires and there has never been as much prevention activity as it has existed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u20	It took a lot of people to die!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u21	We have been very clear to explain that the objective of the sanctioning framework is not to go « hunting fines ». The activity of the Republican National Guard, which has been extraordinary, as any author with whom you can witness, has been essential to inform the people and clarify, either directly or through the contact line, what should or should not be cut and under what conditions. And today, guidance has been given by the General Command of the Republican National Guard to the whole device so that, from tomorrow, they will continue this activity, only with the lifting of cars from the end of this month, and today a decree of the Council of Ministers has also been passed which makes it clear that all the fines applied to those who have clean land will be cancelled until the end of May. This means that, indeed, the message that is fundamental is not « pay the fine » ; the fundamental message is « clean the matte ». That's what we all have to do, that's what we have to do, and that's the message we want to get through. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u22	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u23	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to say to you that today, in fact, people have a very strong conscience, as they have never had. And they have it for one reason: the state failed them last year! The state broke out loudly last year! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, I cannot fail to tell you that the Committee on Agriculture and Sea of this House of the Republic, last Monday, visited Pedrogan Grande and the Leiria Forest, heard the people, heard the complaints I told you here and is particularly concerned about the situation and the failure to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u25	I appeal to you, Prime Minister: that your Government is actually committed to solving these problems, even if they come from far behind, because they urgently need to be resolved, for the tranquillity of the people and so that we do not have new problems at the time of fires that are approaching.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u27	Mr. Prime Minister, changing the subject, I'm going to talk to you about health. And I'm going to insist on this, because the problems are great. The Court of Auditors tells us, in a report which it prepared and submitted last year concerning 2016, in addition to other things, that less than 50% of the consultations requested were carried out, that the response times of the surgeries increased, in particular in priority surgeries, having died 2605 patients waiting to be operated. Mr. Prime Minister, it is public and notorious that all this has been getting worse. We see the complaints of all health agents in Portugal: doctors, nurses and, above all, users. These complaints originate in the main cities of the coast of Viana do Castelo, Porto, Aveiro, Leiria, Lisboa, Setúbal, Faro. It is from the coast that the biggest complaints come, but we know well that the situation in the interior is much worse, because the inhabitants of the interior have no means to make their voices heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u28	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u29	Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to mention statements made this week in the Parliament of the Republic by the Minister of Finance — who likes it very much when we intervene, to shake the head I don't know what the purpose is —... [[PSD laughter.]] ... where he admitted that there were management problems in the area of health. And today we have heard from the Council of Public Finance that there is a chronic mismanagement in the field of health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u30	Years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u31	Mr. Prime Minister often says that we have lived the best situation ever in recent years. Mr. Prime Minister says this many times. And I ask you, when does this better situation come to health? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u32	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u33	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I have not said that we have lived in the best environment; I have said that we have achieved the best results of the Portuguese economy and public finances in the last decade and since the beginning of our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we have managed to do so - not cutting wages or pensions, but resting wages and pensions, not increasing taxes, but lowering taxes, not investing in public school or in the National Health Service, but increasing investment in public school and investment in the National Health Service. [[PSD protests.]] Your colleagues will probably not let you hear my words, but you can read them later in the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Public health expenditure increased by 5 % last year compared to 2015. [[PSD protests.]] And more: the production results of the National Health Service increased significantly. Last year we had more than 18 579 surgical interventions than in 2015 ; we had more than 301 509 consultations than in 2015. That is, we invest more, we have more personnel and the National Health Service is producing more than it produced in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, in a New University study on our health system, what is detected is that the quality of services improved to 73, 8 % in 2017, when it was 65 % in 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u34	That's private!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u35	And that is also why when you look at the European index of health quality you find that Portugal has risen from 20. the position, in 2015, for the 14. the position in 2017. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What does that mean, sir? It means that we are on the right track, and that is where we must continue to improve what has been broken down in previous years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u36	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u37	Mr. Prime Minister, I can't help but tell you that this data obviously doesn't correspond to the truth. If we compare the 2015 investment with the 2017 investment, we see a 25 % decrease in investment in the health sector in 2017. There is indeed a decrease. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I am now returning to the Montepio General's Mutualist Association. It came to the public that it was an IPSS (particular institution of social solidarity) and that it now wants to stop being; it came to the public that did not pay taxes and now it wants to pay; it came to the public that had negative own capitals and, from one moment to the other, it remained with positive own capitals. What this seems to be the miracle of multiplying goods, which, of course, does not happen as often as we want and much less in this case. Mr. Prime Minister, this film is not new. We've seen this film in several private banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u38	This is not just a bank, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u39	Mr. Prime Minister, hammered accounts are financial holes in the future. Explain correctly, Prime Minister, this situation. And for one reason: because this is much more serious than what happened to the other banks; because if it happens and goes forward, complicity is not the private ones, complicity is the state. [[All right!]] [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u40	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u41	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, one day we will certainly have to find out your deep interest in the Montepio situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u42	Mr. Prime Minister is responding. I ask you to make the basic silence so that the answer can be given. Mr. Prime Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u43	But on any clarification you want to have about the accounts of the bank Montepio — and it is of course legitimate that you want to have —,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u44	... must not, of course, raise the question to the Government, raise the question to the legally qualified entity to oversee the accounts of the bank Montepio.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u45	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u46	However, since the bank Montepio is not regarded as a relevant bank, its supervision is not for the European Central Bank, it is for the Banco de Portugal. And I am sure Mr. Governor of Banco de Portugal will be more pleased to come here to clarify whether the accounts of the bank Montepio are or are not hammered. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you should understand, it's not up to me. It would, in fact, be very inappropriate to replace Mr Governor of the Banco de Portugal by clarifying the supervision he is responsible for. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u47	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u48	Mr. Prime Minister, I can't help but tell you one thing: particular interests have the Socialist Government. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] My only interest, Prime Minister, is the public interest. I am not talking about Montepio, I am talking about the Mutualist Association, whose guardianship is a member of your government. The responsibility is yours and your government, not any private. Make it clear, Prime Minister, that there is no interest here other than the interest of the 650 000 members of the Mutual Association. That is my only interest in these questions. Mr. Prime Minister, one last question has to do with security in the justice system. We had the news of a law enforcement officer who used a password, who was asleep, a prosecutor, to get information about a football club, printing documents and distributing them to everyone. We have this information from a club that actually unites us. I'm not going to say which, of course, but it's our football club. Mr Prime Minister, after the Minister of Justice has devalued the situation by saying that there are no immune computer systems, that there are no computer systems to which such situations cannot occur, I wonder whether the Government has already taken any action to create conditions so that our computer system may in fact not be subject to such events and circumstances. Security in justice is fundamental. Mr Prime Minister, what measures has the Government already taken? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u49	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u50	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I am glad you clarified it. If we're talking about the Mutualist Association, there's no comparison with banks, nobody's here worried or anyone wants to help save the bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we are talking about here is more than 600 000 families who have relied on an institution where they have their savings. We are not talking about a bank of a family that has been inheriting financial capital since the 19th century, we are talking about 600,000 Portuguese families who, with their work, have saved and deserve protection. Yeah, and we'll do everything to protect these families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to say the following: I am obviously not going to be speculating here — even when it comes to a club that is dear to us — on a matter that is in judicial investigation, but to make faith in what comes in the social communication and to which you referred, I believe there is no way to prevent anyone who is certified to use the system from using it in an improper way. Nevertheless, I believe that we should rejoice at the fact that, at least once, the violation of the secret of justice was easy to discover and at least point out someone who did so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u51	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u52	Mr President, first of all, allow me to leave a note. This evening Marielle Franco died, a councilwoman in Rio de Janeiro, a woman who fought against injustice and inequality, who was brutally executed. The Left Block will present, in this Assembly of the Republic, a vote of regret for the death of Marielle Franco, which is also a vote of solidarity with all those who do not give up democracy in Brazil. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PSD Members.]] Mr Prime Minister, in passing on our debate, we are going to the subject you have chosen — and I am glad you have chosen — on the prevention of fires. We follow the measures relating to forest slags, forest guards, among others, which, in fact, we have come to propose over time. We will follow these measures with urgency and with dialogue, certainly. I would like to ask you a question about the territory, which is very important, and about what we have already approved of forestry reform — little steps have been taken, but they have already been given — because of a warning that Quercus makes, which is very serious. As you know, the burned area in Portugal is increasingly eucalyptus area. In Pedrogão and Gois, 60% of the area burned was eucalyptus and therefore the relationship is determined. Here we decided to limit the eucalyptus and tells Quercus that according to data from the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests ( ICNF ) there are 40 million eucalyptus ready to be planted in Portugal. Now, with the law we have already passed, this is a problem—they prepare themselves illegal eucalyptals. Therefore, the question is which means of supervision and effective sanction, because it is necessary to stop the growth of the continuous stain of eucalyptus. That is what this Parliament has decided. A second question is about infrastructure, which has been shaken and needs to be rebuilt, and which has to do with Altice. The population still has no fixed telephone. No matter how much you say it's okay, it's not. Surely Mr. Prime Minister, like me, contacts people who do not have a fixed phone, who have offered mobile phones in regions of the country where there is no network coverage. You also know, of course, who has been forced to contract satellite television by Altice not to place the digital terrestrial television (Digital terrestrial television) to which you are obliged. And he also knows, as I do, that the SIRESP (Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal) has failed and that today we are aware that the Altice does not guarantee that it will work in the future. Tomorrow, the proposal of the Left Block is voted here in Parliament to rescue the fixed network of PT ( Portugal Telecom ) for the public sphere, because it is a strategic infrastructure. The question I am asking you is whether you do not think that we have enough to say that the private party is not doing so to ensure — the State — what are essential functions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u53	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u54	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, on the question of eucalyptus, legislation has been adopted in this House, will necessarily be complied with and the strengthening of monitoring systems, either by increasing the number of forest guards, either by increasing the number of nature monitors, or by strengthening the effectiveness of SEPNA (Naturity and Environment Protection Service), will create better conditions for monitoring in the field the application of that law. More: by the end of this semester, we will approve all regional forestry planning plans (ProF) which will then have to be transposed into the municipal management plans (MDPs) of their councils in order to have a value as binding in the planning of those parts of the forest territory as we are already used to them in urban territory. This means that we will have a clear picture of what is possible and what is not possible to plant. And that fundamental reform is the key, obviously, for us to have a more resilient forest. It is not enough to open seats, it is necessary that the composition of the forest ceases to have continuous spots of eucalyptus or pine trees that are highly flammable and that these, faster growing trees can be combined with others that, being slower growing, are in turn more fire resistant and also a factor of greater added value. Finally, and with regard to SIRESP, as you know, the decision taken by the Government in the context of the liquidation process by two companies is taking part in a relevant shareholding in the capital of SIRESP, SA. This process is under way and so we will act. at the same time, two things of the highest importance were assured with the Altice: first, they are more than 1000 km of cable that will cease to be air cables and are being buried, taking advantage of the technical rails that already exist along the main roads; second, not only was the system reinforced with the redundancy of the four mobile antennas as are installed 451 satellite antennas that can function as redundancy in relation to the physical network that, being physical, is not naturally immune to physical phenomena such as fires, which can destroy the cables that are there. Therefore, I believe that we are all in a position to say that, under any circumstances, we will have better conditions of operation and resistance of the system than we had before. The answer, which I have also read from the President of the Altice, is that it has been given that, at all, it is never possible to guarantee 100 % that whatever is not subject to failures. It was in this sense that I read the answer, but the technical redundancy that did not exist will be held next summer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u55	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u56	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if I may, what we know at all is that we cannot trust the administration of the Altice. Until the Labour Code we had to change, because they made all the juggling possible not to respect Portugal as a rule of law. So continue to think that Altice will solve it seems to us, at all, unwise. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to speak to you about the labour issues that the Altice has unfortunately also given us examples. Yesterday, there was a debate and vote on important measures, and it seems to us that it was a mistake for the Socialist Party to have plunged the measures relating to collective bargaining. There is an initiative of the Left Block, which has come down to the Commission, for discussion in the specialty, without voting in general, which is that of the individual hourly bank, and the reason why this happened was because we do not want to believe that the government will not fulfil its commitment so often repeated. I recall that in the Government Programme it is expressly envisaged to repeal the possibility introduced in the 2012 Labour Code of (... ) an individual time bank(... ). And Mr. Prime Minister has already reiterated here in December 2016 and February 2018 that the individual hour bank has to finish. The question we have to ask you is this: then, when? Why not yesterday? How long we are waiting to end an instrument that objectively worsens the lives of those who work in this country. The individual hourly bank means that a worker alone, under the pressure of his employer, is obliged to work more than 150 hours a year and this work is not even paid as extraordinary work. It is therefore a measure that prevents the reconciliation of family life, leisure, the most basic rights of workers, a measure that lowers wages and is even a measure against job creation. When do we end up with the individual hourly bank, if that is the government's commitment and the commitment it has also signed with the Left Block? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u57	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u58	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the proposal for the elimination of the individual hourly bank already included the Socialist Party's electoral programme. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u59	It is not even those measures which have been introduced into the Government's programme as a result of the Joint Positions, one signed with the Greens, another signed with the CFP and another with the Left Block, it already contained the joint position of the Government with the Socialist Party, and we will comply. As we said, in March we would present all the legislative measures contained in the Government's Labour Law Programme, in relation to the fight against precariousness and, in particular, to the hourly bank. Therefore, what I can now add, in relation to what I have told you 15 days ago, is the date, telling you that this will be presented on the next day 23. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u60	You also have the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u61	Mr President, Prime Minister, these issues are not a small thing. Pedro Soares dos Santos gave an interview in which he said: «With the workers(...) it is all right — it is easy». You get everything. He knows that, without collective hiring, in front of a worker, he imposes everything. He knows how to impose the 12 hours of work, as he did, in Poland, by paying only 8 hours later and with the disastrous results known, such as that of the NGO calling Jerome Martins "the greatest example of labour abuse in Poland". There are many employers in Portugal who like these examples, who want to impose these times and who even think that eventually the Left Block is stung. Now, we are here to spoil, because we are here to protect workers' rights, and therefore it has to be. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Commitments to the dignity of work must go forward. Mr Prime Minister, there is another issue — and I know that I will repeat - but, as long as it is not fulfilled, we have to repeat - that it has to do with the long-term contribution careers and the cut-off of sustainability for those who, at the age of 60, have already 40 years of contributing careers. He told us that this would happen in this legislature and that according to the initial promise, the second phase would be January 2018. So I have to repeat the question: when does the second phase of the long-contributory careers regime come into force? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u62	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u63	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, we are well aware of the importance of social dialogue and collective bargaining and, therefore, we have taken steps to put an end to the dismantling of the collective bargaining that is under way. To this end, on the one hand, in agreement in social consultation, we frozen until July of the next year the possibility of decreeing the expiry of collective contracts and, on the other hand, agileized and disburocratized the process of extension portals. Today, fortunately, we have much more workers covered by collective bargaining than we had at the beginning of this legislation. But we also believe in social dialogue at company level and have always sought to ensure that this social dialogue is productive, following the good examples of social dialogue to which over the years some companies have used us, such as Autoeuropa. at this time, in Autoeuropa there have been difficulties in the progress of this dialogue and the government's position has always been to support the parties, in an attempt to ensure that social dialogue at this level can also succeed. This is because we do not have the slightest doubt that the reason for the existence of labour law, the reason for social dialogue, the reason for social dialogue is that, indeed, it is necessary to equal a relationship which, by nature, is unequal and where the most fragile part must be properly protected. So social dialogue is necessary and we will do everything in our power to protect social dialogue and collective dialogue. And that is also why changes to labour legislation will be made as we have always said here in the Assembly of the Republic, but without making an effort to get an agreement in social consultation. The generality of times has been possible, but when it has not been possible we have made progress even without that agreement. We have not stopped moving forward, and that is what we will continue to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u64	You have the floor, Mrs. Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u65	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I thank you for the answer to one part of the question, but there is a lack of the other part of the long-term contribution careers. What about the sustainability factor? Then, if I could, in the seconds that he still has, thank you for answering me. I just wanted to raise a final note about the Mutualist Association, which is the wife of Montepio. The Mutualist Association made a maneuver to cover up its own accounting. We think this is serious and puts a lot of fragility and pressure on the sector; in fact, it shows that there is a lot wrong in everything that has happened. But that's not what I wanted to talk to you about.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u66	So why did you talk? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u67	The accounting maneuver that the Mutualist Association makes allows you to have a tax benefit that is certainly less than the one that could have with the PSD / CDS legislation because we have already changed something. In any case, it is surely too high a tax benefit and that makes people wonder: how is it possible for a company to have such a tax benefit? The Left Block has already asked the Government for all clarifications on this matter and it is important that everything be explained, because not only of the situation of the Mutual Association...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u68	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u69	... but also the situation of Montepio — the bank — and certainly because of what are tax benefits in this country and their reasonableness, or not. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u70	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u71	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, on the question of long-term contributions, I will respond as I have said 15 days ago — the frequency of this dialogue, 15 days in 15 days, often does not allow us to bring news. There is one thing that you know, which is that you will know first than all other Members, or almost all other Members, what the government will present,... [[Why?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u72	... because this is also the subject of the Joint Positions with the Left Block, with the PCP and with the Greens. And therefore the Government will never present anything publicly that is not previously agreed with the honourable Member, and we will do what we undertake to do, which is to continue the work. That's what we're going to do. As for the issue of the Mutualist Association, there is something that I would like to make clear: the government has not taken any decision, nor has it any kind of intervention. The Mutualist Association had, by its Statute, an exemption from IRC. By changing its profile, it raised the question of whether or not the exemption was maintained to the Tributary Authority. The Tax Authority understood that, in view of the new profile of the Mutualist Association, it had lost the characteristics that allowed it to have the exemption of IRC and therefore became a contributor at the head of IRC. The Government had no intervention in this, it was a decision of the Tax Authority, which took a position with binding effect. From that point on, the Mutualist Association became the status of any other taxpayer at the head of IRC. In other words, it became forced to pay for IRC, but it also became able to deduce...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u73	Mr. Prime Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u74	I shall now conclude, Mr President. As I was saying from that point on, the Mutualist Association was forced to pay for IRC, but it was also able to benefit from the set of deduction or referral mechanisms that are planned for any other taxpayer within IRC. The information we have is this and, therefore, what happened with the Mutualist Association is what will happen with any other taxpayer at the head of IRC. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u75	To put the questions, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u76	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, yesterday there was Professor Xavier Viegas in this House and several questions were clarified about what happened last June with the forest fires. We already knew that it had failed, inexplicably, the fight and we learned that it also failed the rescue and rescue to the victims. Question: what is being done from then to here and what will change so that the search and salvation are effective and not to happen what happened in June? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u77	You have the floor to answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u78	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas, I begin by congratulating you on your re-election as leader of the CDS-PP and on the great media impact of the Congress that took place last weekend. I make the greatest vows of the greatest success in the ambitious leadership of the CDS-PP with which he presented himself to Congress and the Country. As you know, the report by Prof. Xavier Viegas, who had been commissioned by the Government, also by Ms. Minister Constance Urbano de Sousa, examines the case in detail. We also await the outcome of the work of the Independent Technical Commission on fires of 15 October. On 21 October, the Government approved a package of measures on the reform of the integrated management system for the prevention and control of rural fires, and this is what we are implementing. This programme includes, firstly, greater integration between prevention and combating, secondly, greater training and professionalization at all stages, from prevention to relief, and thirdly, specialisation. And in specialization there is something that is absolutely essential, as is the result of the report by the Independent Technical Commission, that we have the specialized forces to deal with the fires and the specialized forces to protect and help people and their goods. This distinction is very important for, in a disaster scenario like the one we live, we can have a more effective answer. This is the model that is being drawn, and this is the model that we're going to implement over the next few years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u79	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u80	Mr President, Prime Minister, can we then conclude that there is a clear and differentiated concern about the relief and rescue of the victims? Oh, my God! It is that this is very important so that what happened will not happen again and that only now has become clear. We already knew that for two hours there was no firefighting, there was no airway, but we also learned that there were people who had been waiting for many hours to be rescued and who ended up dying. I would also like to ask you, because it is important until, from the compensatory point of view, why there is still no clear mandate for Prof. Xavier Viegas' team to lift everything that happened in October. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u81	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u82	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, Mr Minister for Internal Administration tells me that there is already a clear mandate for the work of Prof. Xavier Viegas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u83	Mrs Assunción Cristas, please continue to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u84	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, then it is appropriate to transmit this to Prof. Xavier Viegas because, yesterday in this House, he said that there was still no clear mandate, that they were waiting for bureaucratic issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u86	So, I'm glad you say it here, and I hope this is clarified and resolved. Still on the questions of preparation and prevention, I ask you: how is the relationship between the IPMA (Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere) and the ANPC (National Civil Protection Authority) being organized so that all weather alerts have a rapid, immediate and ready effect on the preparation and readiness of the device, why did this fail roundly in October? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u87	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u88	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, among the measures provided for in the training is precisely the integration of all this information. In fact, and I have already said publicly, I have no difficulty in assuming that I have no doubt that the great failure in October was clearly underestimated the impact on the continental territory of the warning of the IPMA on the impact of that typhoon on the continental territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u89	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u90	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is good to see you recognize this because, in fact, that was a big problem and we hope that it will not repeat itself. He has already responded to the PSD on air media, but I just wanted to confirm if we can guarantee that more air resources will be available than last year, and from when. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u91	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u92	Mr. President, yes, Mrs. As I said recently, our goal is to have 55 air resources, which are more than we had last year and more than those we had two years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u93	Guaranteed for when?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u94	Guaranteed all year round. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u95	You have the floor, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u96	Mr President, Prime Minister, from when? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u97	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u98	Mr President, Madam Member, the invitation to tender is to have the air resources available all year round. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u99	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u100	Is there tomorrow? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u101	Mr President, Prime Minister, « all year» assumes that we have them now. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u102	So the question remains valid, if you want to answer immediately: from when is it expectable to have these means? But, Prime Minister, not to leave you overly pregnant, along with one more question and thus always has more time for the answer. How is the formation of guards going to the GIPS ( Protection and Relief Intervention Group) and to the SEPNA ( Nature and Environment Protection Service) being done? It's already started. Is it done? Can you assure us that many of them will not end up giving up, as happened in the Army? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u103	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u104	Mr President, Madam Member, the invitation to tender is open until 28 days. Then it is necessary to wait for the deadline for the examination of the applications, to make the award and all the bureaucratic procedures, and only from there will we be...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u105	But what's the date?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u106	The honourable Member, who has already been a minister and has therefore opened invitations to tender, knows that no one can say, at the end of the day, what is the date of the invitation to tender unless he has previously decided to tender before he knows the tenders for the invitation to tender. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The elements of the GIPS are already in training. As you know, what we did was a new incorporation to replace those who, already in the Republican National Guard, are going to the GIPS, and therefore can replace those who are already in the Guard and GIPS. They are already in training and will perform their duties. I do not believe that there are risks of major withdrawals because over the last 12 years the GIPS has already given good evidence of its commitment and ability to carry out the mission entrusted to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u107	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u108	Mr President, Prime Minister, we know that there will be 55 means—to see when—we hope that in time to respond quickly to the weather warnings of the IPMA. Mr Prime Minister, also on reconstruction, because it is a very important issue, I would like to ask you whether you are aware that the people who have suffered great damage in Pedrogão have been persuaded — and have accepted — to level their damage for €5,000 to dispense more bureaucracy, even though they have suffered much more damage than that. And actually, they didn't even get the 5000 €. Do you know this problem? Are you aware of him and you're going to do something to fix him? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u109	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u110	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, as you know, Community regulations provide for a measure, I believe it is 6.2.2, which allows compensation for all damage. In order to gain access to this compensation, it is necessary, in effect, to complete a set of documentation, to give a set of information and, in particular, to be registered in finance. There were people who voluntarily, instead of being subject to all this bureaucratic burden, chose to apply for compensation up to €1053, who were immediately paid for social security without any demonstration, or up to €5,000, in an effort jointly made by the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security and the Ministry of Agriculture. This is what was done, no one was persuaded, there were people who chose. Now, if you want, you always have measure 6.2.2 to be able to have all the damage covered, but this effectively means meeting the Community standards, which are not done by us but by the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u111	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u112	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I know the rules very well because I have been on the ground a long time ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u113	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u114	However, what happens, Mr Prime Minister — and I explain — is that people voluntarily accepted the 5000 €, precisely to dispense a whole set of bureaucracy and delays, naturally associated with these bureaucracies, but then, and this is the problem, they were not paid the 5000 € ; they were paid €4000, €3500 and up to €2500, but not the 5000 €. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u115	And so my question is if you know this and if you're available to pay for what's missing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u116	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u117	Mr President, Madam Member, what Mr. Agriculture Minister tells me is that they have been paid in accordance with the table approved before November 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u118	Please, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u119	Mr President, Prime Minister, I invite you, then, to revisit this issue, because what happens is that people have accepted the €5,000, despite having damages above this value, and these have not been compensated for. But let me ask you another question about another issue, structural questions. To what extent are pilot projects and what funding do they have? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u120	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, what pilot projects are you talking about? [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u122	You have the floor, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u123	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is serious not to know what pilot projects I am talking about. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] That is the question I have to ask you, because the government has repeatedly referred to pilot projects in the process for the recovery and reconstruction of the territory. So if you don't know, the answer is given. Mr. Prime Minister doesn't know what pilot projects are on the ground. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And that must be absolutely true, because on the ground no one also knows the pilot projects. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] Let us then move on to the next question, noting that there are no pilot projects in progress, nor is there any ongoing funding. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u124	It's a little dishonest!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u125	Mr. Prime Minister, let me ask you, then,... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u126	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u127	They're very nervous.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u128	Mr. President, I ask you to stop counting time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u129	Mrs Assunción Cristos, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u130	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you if you are aware — and if you are aware of many — of the many forest projects which have been approved or which are in favour of PDR 2020, but which are not going to have any associated funds at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u131	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u132	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, then the pilot project referred to is that of Pinhal Interior. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u133	This is being implemented by the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior ( UMVI ), based precisely in Pedrogão, and is proceeding in good terms with the budget that has been approved, which only in the context of agriculture mobilises EUR 30 million. This is what is being executed and is being taken forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u134	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u135	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am not going to the ground, the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea also went to the ground and saw nothing of it, but now there should also be pilot projects in the other areas of the country that burned in October. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]] I would also like to ask you a question about broader issues relating to the internal market: taxation status for the internal market. The CDS presented here, in the State Budget, a method to be able to work on this subject which has been plunged. Afterwards, several voices appeared, including from his political area, such as Dr. Jorge Coelho, talking about this matter. Is the Government and the Socialist Party ready to work on a true tax status of benefit to the interior? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u136	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u137	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, as you know, the Government has already announced that Mr Deputy Minister has been coordinating a team precisely to work on the internal tax project. After our contact with a set of personalities, in which Dr. Miguel Cadilhe, Dr. Silva Peneda, Mr. Rector of the Technical University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro and the Presidents of the Chambers of Guard and Vila Real, we waited for their contributions, so that we could move forward in our program about the inside. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u138	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u139	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, then they plummeted because they did not like the authorship. [[Protests by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Pedro Nuno Santos.]] If they had approved the CDS legislative initiative here in Parliament we would be moving ahead faster. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u140	Mr Prime Minister, I am moving on to another issue, that of the austerity hidden in your left-wing government. [[Protests by PCP MP Jerome de Sousa.]] I have brought here the debate, several times the health issues,... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ... like, for example, last week, the situation of pediatrics in the hospitals of Évora or São João, in Porto, where there is a lack of beds, infiltrations, air conditioning problems, but it is not only here. We have learned very recently that there are several serious problems in the area of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u141	In 2013 it was good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u142	Moreover, we have learned that the 25th of April has a very serious problem, and that the vote for the resolution was unblocked one day before there was a news in the media. Coincidence, according to your Minister of the Presidency. But it was not the only case: on 26 January, fall of catenary on the Cascais Line ; on 20 February, derailment on the Beira Alta Line ; on 22 February, derailment on the North Line ; on 4 March, again derailment on the Beira Alta Line. Question : How many more cases are there kept in Mr. Minister of Finance's drawer? In fact, I'm afraid it's not a drawer, it must be a closet, and a very large closet,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u143	It's a trunk!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u144	... looking at all these situations. I wanted to know if there are any coincidences in these cases too. Mr. Prime Minister, it's not just in health, it's not just in the railroad,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u145	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u146	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, Mr. Prime Minister, it is not only in health, it is not only in the railway, it is not in infrastructure, it is in everything, we have a Country arrested by wires, a hidden austerity of the Government of the sides, which, moreover, has very varied declines in various areas and we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u147	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u148	In conclusion, Prime Minister, you will not have time for the answer, but perhaps at the time of the reply to another parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u149	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u150	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, after all, how much money is the Holy House going to put in Montepio? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u151	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u152	Mr. President, Mrs. Mrs. Assumption Cristas, in 2012 — I repeat, 2012! — an inspection was carried out at the 25th of April, when problems were detected.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u153	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u154	In 2014 a company, Parsons, was commissioned to develop an intervention project. This project was duly presented, was validated by the National Laboratory of Civil Engineering ( LNEC ), carried out all procedures and in the State Budget for 2018, presented in this Assembly on 15 October, was recorded the necessary money to start this year with the work on the 25th of April. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u155	Please conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u156	Therefore, in October 2017, a date prior to the submission of the reports, February 2018, which drew attention to the need to move forward with the works, the work was already planned and was already being properly prepared. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u157	You really have to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u158	Mr President, just to conclude, and quoting the President of the National Civil Engineering Laboratory, «the bridge is safe, secure and will continue to be secure». Who says so is the President of the National Civil Engineering Laboratory, I assume that you do not deserve to be mistrusted by Ex.a. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u159	To put the questions on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u160	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, before we discuss the issue of fires, I make a prior record of a different subject, but this is a remarkable moment in the new phase of national political life. The CFP yesterday brought to the discussion issues of central importance to the workers. They have been in discussion proposals for the defence of rights, such as the rights to collective bargaining and to freedom of negotiation. They were in discussion proposals aimed at the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker. Allow me, here, a parenthesis: Mr Prime Minister said, five minutes ago, that there was a more unequal, more fragile part, that was the worker. Why did they vote against? Why did your party vote against this most favourable treatment for the worker? To counter, in our initiative, the deregulation of working hours, which today infern the life, professional, personal and family life and the health of hundreds of thousands of workers. In the vote, PS decided to converge with PSD and CDS, PSD and CDS decided to support PS in the lead of proposals submitted by the PCP. It wasn't the first time, nor will it be the last time. Even now, for the information available again, PS, PSD and CDS were understood in relation to Uber, aiming, essentially, to weaken a national sector, like that of taxi. Mr. Prime Minister, this option shows that the PS falls far short of the justice that is required to be done to the workers, so deeply rooted in their rights in recent years. It shows that the PS government and the PS, such as the PSD and the CDS, want to consolidate the backwardness imposed on Portuguese workers on crucial issues. But it shows more, it shows the clear need for workers to assume themselves as actors of the main achievements that have taken place. It was not the legislator, Prime Minister, who created the right to strike, the right to contract, the right to have fair times, fighting for many and many decades. Therefore, we are confident that the workers will be able to fight for their rights and give more strength to the CFP to defend those same rights. [[PCP applause.]] We will not give up on this objective, as we will not give up on helping to solve the other problem that has already been put here in relation to the long-term contribution careers. Mr. Prime Minister said it's been 15 days and there's no answer yet. You assured Mrs Catarina Martins that she would be the first to know. I don't care about being the last one, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u161	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u162	... I hope that the first ones are those workers who are waiting for a concrete answer because it was the government that created prospects for these thousands of workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u163	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u164	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, first of all, I am still corrected when I told Mrs Catarina Martins that she would be the first, saying that she would be the first. By chance I was looking at Mr. Carlos César's fulminating look,... [[Laughing.]] ... that sometimes does not like that you think we talk more to the PCP, to The Greens and to the Left Block than to the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u165	It's not possible!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u166	But Mr Jerónimo de Sousa will certainly also be the first to know what our position is. If we want to change the working methodology and, therefore, we will all know at the same time, for my part, I am fully available, because I never insist on such a working methodology. With regard to pension fund legislation, we have this commitment; we have already taken the first, very important step, and we are available to continue to take the following steps. However, as we have always said, this step, in the sense of justice, cannot undermine the need to maintain and ensure the future sustainability of our social security system. This is because the future sustainability of the social security system is the greatest guarantee we can have against the right-wing offensive in relation to social security. We must therefore take this step without imbalance. Fortunately, the economy has responded well to the set of measures we have taken, in particular for the replacement of income, for the return of trust, for investment, and for a significant reduction in unemployment. And so today we have more sustainable social security than we had, and it is in this course that we must maintain ourselves, but we cannot break this path, that of extending the space of justice, without sacrificing the basis of sustainability of social security. With regard to labour law, we knew that there were matters on which we were at odds and others on which we agreed. On those we agreed and which are part of the Government's programme, the disagreement was against timing because we had announced that we would present them next day 23 — there were parties that chose not to vote, there were others who did so. But the essential thing is that what is contained in the Government's programme is actually to be approved on collective bargaining, on guaranteeing individual rights, on timetables and on combating precariousness. This is part of the Government's programme and we will, of course, implement it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u167	You have the floor again, Mr Jerome de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u168	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, they could have voted in favour, in general,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u169	Power, I could! He just didn't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u170	...that this would not prevent the dynamics of dialogue, aiming at a solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u171	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u172	But no, PSD and CDS quickly came to support the government with their well-woned class consciousness. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, with regard to contributing careers, I insist on this idea: I do not mind not being in the front row, but transmits the facts to those who are listening to us—and look at the many. Later, some may say to me: "After all, man has not come forward! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This will certainly be the conclusion that they will draw and, therefore, we will insist on the times that are necessary to achieve this objective. Mr. Prime Minister, as far as the fight against fires is concerned, it would be good if we arrived in the summer with everyone knowing what each one does. It is unquestionable that cleaning the forest is an urgent task to guarantee and today's moratorium is fair in the face of the situation on the ground. The most important thing is to clean up and mobilize all efforts, also ensuring the means for fulfilling this obligation. But there is no real solution that does not go through the planning of the forest, through its linkage with the promotion of family farming, livestock farming, planning, programming, and indispensable support. These problems are not solved by de-responsibility and in particular by the authorities. Mr Prime Minister, 15 days ago, in response to a question I asked, said that there were 15 million euros for the owners to clean up the forest. Let me ask: what is this program? When did the deadline for the applications end? When will these owners know whether or not they receive support? When, then, will these support be received? Those are questions that I'd like to see clarified. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u173	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u174	Mr President, Mr, we have no doubt that without solving the structural problems we will not reduce the risks of fire. That is, without revitalizing the interior, without rearranging the forest, we will not reduce the risk of fire, especially in a context where climate change has aggravated all these risks. That is why, while working on the substantive measures, such as the implementation of forest reform, we must also work in the short term to improve prevention and combat mechanisms. As far as prevention is concerned, we must make a great effort in terms of cleaning, which is being done. The work that is being done in the country, at this time, by private owners, by baldium shares, by state entities, by municipalities, is absolutely extraordinary, as we have never had in decades and decades. With regard to this 12 million credit line in the State budget, through the mutual guarantee system, we resolved to increase its capacity by hiring with the bank so that a total of 40 million euros could be available to finance the private sector. at this moment, the information I have is that the banks have already presented themselves to the competition, those that will have this mutual guarantee, and will begin to have the conditions to finance directly those who use the financing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u175	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u176	Mr President, Prime Minister, the need for repair of the 25th April bridge has once again shown the scandal of public-private partnerships, the PPPs. People pay the tolls, the state is charged with infrastructure repair and the economic group increases profits with the income of the contract. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u177	It is necessary to end the PPP scandal in order to defend the public interest, and it is in this sense that we will present today a bill aimed at this issue and it is important to listen to the opinion of the Government. In the municipalities of the south bank and Lisbon, for months passengers have piled up on the docks due to lack of ships. I believe that the Prime Minister is aware of what the lives of the people who come to a consultation, who come to work, who come to deal with a fundamental issue and who suddenly remain without alternative transport. This requires answers, infrastructure reinforcement, means strengthening, investment reinforcement. And that is why, given the worsening situation, we have conveyed this concern to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u178	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u179	Mr. Prime Minister, what are you thinking of doing to avoid these dramatic situations that are going to accumulate? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u180	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u181	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, on the question of the 25th of April, it will be recalled that, because of the change in the price of tolls and the introduction of the exemption from payment in August, there was a dispute between the State and the concessionaire that led to an agreement that resulted, inter alia, from the amendment of the concessionaire's obligations, and which was contravened by the obligation to maintain assets. As for what is happening in river transport, unfortunately, I am well aware of the dramatic situations that have been experienced, particularly during the week between 5 and 9, in the crossings operated either by Soflusa or Transtejo. As you should imagine, both the autoarchs and the people have expressed themselves very clearly with the government with a great dissatisfaction over the service. Part of the problem has to do with the lack of maintenance, which should have taken place over several years and which at the moment we will have to wait for the time needed for it to be done. But this has not been the only reason and therefore we are dissatisfied with the situation. The Minister of the Environment has also informed me last week that he already has a set of measures planned to respond as quickly as possible to this situation in Transtex and Soflusa. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u182	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u183	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, during the last fortnight's debate, the Greens presented to him a series of difficulties which were being encountered on the ground, with regard to the cleaning of the forest, difficulties with which the owners and the authorities themselves were facing, and so they were reporting them. And the Greens clearly told Mr. Prime Minister that something had to be adjusted. The Prime Minister has proved, here, irreducible with regard to the enforcement of the law, both the deadlines and everything that was fixed and the framework that was drawn up. The Minister of Agriculture then came to make public statements, saying that if the owners did not do the proper cleaning until 15 March, they would be subject to CL fines applied. of the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), people heard that there would be no tolerance and that guarantee the application of the fines. What did this lead to, Prime Minister? It has led many people to be completely distressed by the fact that they have failed, I repeat, failed to do so, for the reasons that the Greens have moved forward, particularly because there is no working hand available to do so; other people have ended up paying much more than they could have paid; and others have even removed more than what they should have taken. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, the Greens call it « some discoordination», it is obvious on the ground. It was today, on the last day of the deadline, that Mr Prime Minister came to say that the deadline would be extended and that no fines would be applied until 31 May. That is what the Portuguese have learned today, but this message could have already been given before so that, with calmness, rationality and effective means on the ground, people would do what they certainly want to do, because they want to guarantee their safety. I believe that we all, coordinated, should contribute to this. The Greens also noted that Mr Prime Minister today advanced that the credit line for the owners would not be EUR 15 million but, yes, EUR 40 million. Now, however, with the reply that Mr Prime Minister has given, I have felt that this EUR 15 million has not yet been spent on a toss. So I would also like to try to understand how this will actually work to get to the owners.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u184	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u185	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the obligation that everyone has to clean up their land has been in law for more than 12 years. And it's not by any chance that over 12 years no one has fulfilled it or anyone has demanded it. After last summer it would be absolutely intolerable for Portuguese society that we could take back the risk that we were at that time. Every piece of forest that is not clean is a threat to the life of a human being and this is not acceptable. This responsibility has to exist and therefore it has been said and it is repeated that we must all strive for the results to be achieved. I told you here 15 days ago that our goal was not to hunt fines. He looked at me with suspicious air and I insisted: my goal is not to hunt fines, my goal is that people become aware of this duty. And there is one thing that no one today has doubts: there is a conscience throughout the country, as never existed, of the obligation, of the duty to proceed with this cleansing. The complaints we hear today, that there is a lack of labour or that prices are rising, are only the sign that, for the first time in many years, what should have been done many years ago. And more: it must be repeated every year, because every year it is necessary to keep this clean, and this prevention effort is absolutely essential. It was because we became aware that there could be many owners who actually had difficulties that, instead of financing directly with the EUR 15 million, we resolved to place them in the Multiple Guarantee Society, so that it would contract with the banks that these EUR 15 million would serve as a guarantee that the volume available to finance these operations would be greater. That is why today this volume is EUR 40 million. Obviously it took time, because the Multiple Guarantee Society had to contract with the banks. at this moment, the contracts are being concluded and, very quickly, these lines will be accessible on the banks counters. But I know that there are banks that are already contacting their customers, telling them that they will have these funding lines available to make these investments, which are absolutely essential. But we need to be aware that the duty to clean up has not ended today, that duty continues. What is added today is that in addition to the duty there is also the faculty of municipal chambers to be able to intervene and they will surely also do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u186	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u187	Mr. Prime Minister, it is clear that the cleaning of forests and forests must be done. There is no doubt and the Greens have already reaffirmed it here many times, but it has to be done with means and having the practical issues assured, See, too, that the credit line itself was not ready for people to enjoy it within the deadline. Well, Prime Minister, there are ways to ensure that things can actually happen in order to achieve the goals that we want. There is another question I would like to ask Mr Prime Minister: what will the Government do in relation to Resolution No 1 / 2018, adopted in the Assembly of the Republic with the votes in favour — see! — the PS, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens and with the abstention of the PSD and the CDS? What resolution is this? It is the resolution which determines that the Assembly of the Republic has decided to address the Government in order to say that the counting of all time of service for the purposes of career progression, of those who also depend on the counting of service time, must be done. This Resolution No. 1 / 2018 resulted from a draft resolution submitted by the Greens in the Assembly of the Republic for a matter of justice, in particular for those teachers who worked for nine years and for whom the Government threatens to make a blackout for a significant set of these years, in order not to account for them for the purposes of career progression. The defrosting of careers must necessarily be done, but with justice. People have worked, provided a service and this service has to be accounted for. What will the Government do to a resolution adopted, with this meaning, in the Assembly of the Republic?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u188	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u189	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the blackout existed on the day the careers were frozen. What is stated in the Government Programme, what the government agreed and prepared to do was to re-check the stopwatch. That's the thawing, that's what we're committed to doing, and that's what we're doing. And we are doing so for the whole of the Public Administration and also for the teachers, who, with the replacement of the counting of the time of service, will surely be ahead of 46 000 teachers this year. We understand that there could be an incongruence between the pace of progression in teachers' careers in relation to general careers, because of the differentiation in career progression mode. It was in this sense that the Government was prepared to negotiate with the teachers' unions and to present a proposal that, from the point of view of equity, was the one that rests equality. Unfortunately, the unions have completely rejected this proposal and we are now on this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u190	You have to finish, please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u191	But what is stated in the Government Programme, defrosting careers, meant and means restoring the count of service time, which no longer counts on the day the timer was stopped. Whoever made this blackout was not this government. This blackout was made at the time the freezing was decreed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u192	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u193	Mr President, Prime Minister, even in the current framework of drought and climate change the Government continues to defend the intensive and superintensive cultures associated with recreation. But this model presents enormous environmental pressures, such as soil erosion, the destruction of water lines, the elimination of ecological corridors, the loss of biodiversity and the strong increase in the incorporation of fertilizers and pesticides that contaminate water systems, which also represents a public health problem. The Alentejan plain, rich in fauna and flora, is giving rise to the voracity of the industrial green of the superintensive olives. in these aseptic fields we can no longer see spiders, minhocas or snails, we no longer hear ruxinos or paintssilgos, we no longer smell flowers, there are no hives. To all this it is customary to designate by development at the service of growth and here the NAP wins what it has always defended: more than the amount of growth, it matters the quality of development. Mr. Prime Minister, in the Alentejo, the irresponsible and uncritical interventions in the use of soil became commonplace. In 2008 the Ministry of Agriculture set up a working group to assess the consequences of intensive olive proliferation with annual conclusions and updates. Three reports were prepared in 2009, 2010 and 2011, but were neither published nor continued.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u194	Exactly! They haven't even been released!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u195	I would therefore like to ask you three questions. The first is whether the Government is in a position to publish these reports; the second is whether the Government is in a position to ensure the publication of a current report on 2017; and, thirdly, and most importantly, whether, in the current lack of legislation and in the absence of an assessment of the environmental consequences of this production model, the Government believes that it should suspend new projects until there are conclusions and a planned plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u196	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u197	Mr President, Mr André Silva, first of all, we are aware of the importance of olives as an indigenous culture and that it is important to value. It is important to value it in the context of forest reform and in the context of the national economy. In 2005 the self-supply of olive oil was 50 % and by 2015 there was already a production capacity of 127 %. What we have been checking is that, fortunately, thanks to the new techniques of planting and olive use, we have significantly improved productivity and this has contributed a lot to the increase in exports. If we want to have a more developed rural world and a more orderly forest we should effectively bet on native trees and one of them is the olive tree. Does that have to take your impacts into account? Yeah. Does that require good water management? Yes, and that is why we have launched, still very recently, the largest stream plan in recent decades, with a view to bringing to the country all the water management capacity, which has given so good evidence in its application to the Alqueva. And its extension, now in more than 90 000 ha — 50 000 new hectares of irrigation, 40 000 irrigation repairs already in existence — enables us to reconcile the necessary good water management with that bet that we have to continue the increase in agricultural production and, in particular, its contribution to our commercial balance. As for the reports you mentioned, and for those that are available, I would like to make it clear that we are also available to enable them as well as to order a report on 2017. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u198	I now give the floor to the PS Parliamentary Group, by the voice of Mr José Miguel Medeiros. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u199	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members complete this week, eight months on the occurrence of the fires that, in June, reached the area of Pinhal Interior and signaled the beginning of a critical period as we had never seen in Portugal. Four months later the tragedy repeated, no less dramatic, this time reaching the entire area of the Country Centre, from the Pinhal de Leiria, on the coast, to the central cordillera and surrounding territories of the districts of Coimbra, Viseu, Guarda and Aveiro, burning houses, companies, killing people and traveling, in a few hours, hundreds of kilometers. The unprecedented dimension of this wave of fires in the summer of 2017, which reached in a particularly violent way all the districts of the Central region, compared the country in a brutal way, with the dramatic reality of forest fires, this time with truly tragic human consequences and material damage never seen, creating a scene of horror that none of us will certainly forget. The numbers speak for themselves: more than 100 fatal victims and hundreds of wounded, more than 440 000 ha of forest and burning villages, many hundreds of destroyed housing houses and companies and productive units totally or partially affected and a country in shock, witness to a year that will be tragically marked in its history. The tragedy dimension was far beyond what we know in 2003, 2005 and 2006 and which justified significant changes in the fire prevention and control model, giving it greater coherence and improving its effectiveness, as the subsequent numbers confirmed. After all, with the tragedy of last summer it was found that the reforms made in the last decade were insufficient and that Portugal did not have the right mechanisms to respond to such extreme circumstances as those we lived in June and October 2017. I and many of us, born and raised in those increasingly impoverished and impoverished territories and that there we decided to live and work we had never seen anything like the hell of fire and destruction that, I hope — we all hope! - Never repeat. As a member elected by Leiria and as a citizen of the region, I have accompanied the situation since the first hours and have witnessed the Stoic effort of the autoarchs, firefighters and other civil protection agents, as well as of the populations, of course, to resist and control losses and damage. I was therefore able to follow the diligent way as the Prime Minister and the government have acted since the first hour, being where they should be and doing what needed to be done, in those difficult circumstances. On the morning of 18 June, when I heard, at the Pedrógão Grande Command Station, that the Prime Minister was coming, accompanied by several members of the Government and leaders of the central administration, to learn of the situation on the spot, to meet with the mayors of the municipalities affected and to make the most urgent decisions to turn to the people and to the territories in flames. Less than 24 hours after the fire broke out, the Prime Minister was on the ground, taking on the leadership and responsibility of the response that the country had to give, as he said, with ownership, Mr. President of the Republic. Parliament, justice is done, it has also been on the ground and realized that that was, above all, the time to go to those nations and territories, the time of action and the response to the catastrophe. We approved in this House, on a proposal from the PSD, as Mr Fernando Negrão pointed out, the creation of an Independent Technical Commission which, in just over two months, produced a report, approved unanimously and whose recommendations constituted the basis (as already mentioned here) for a set of structural measures which the Government took, at a meeting specially devoted to this effect, on 21 October, a few days after the tragedy caused by the second wave of forest fires. It should be noted that, four months after the first tragedy, which took place in June, there was already a structured and properly funded plan to respond to the disaster, something unprecedented in our country, especially if we take into account the size of what happened, the high number of victims, the extent of the territory reached and the level of destruction of homes, infrastructure and productive units. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u200	in these eight months after the initial tragedy of Pedrogão, we have visited and closely followed the evolution of the repair and reconstruction programs of houses, companies and basic infrastructures, but also (and is not less important) the return to normal life of the populations and the social life of the communities. Portugal, the country of solidarity we all know, united around the suffering of the victims and volunteered for a cause that became of all, a true national design, which the Government has been able to translate into concrete programmes and support to the affected areas, as Mr President of the Republic, the autoarchies and the general population recognize. Mr. Prime Minister, in the face of the greatest tragedy associated with the ever occurring forest fires in Portugal, the leading government has shown initiative and has been able to equip the State with the necessary mechanisms to ensure a structured response to victims and territories. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u201	We know well how much has been done by the government, the authorities and civil society in support of the territories and the populations affected. We know that hundreds of homes have already been recovered and rebuilt, that the victim compensation process is taking place with a speed never seen in Portugal, that social support is reaching the populations and the business units, many of which have already begun to work and many others are working to make this happen soon. We also know that there will still be much to do — we have to be, and we are, honest in this matter, especially at the level of structural changes, which we need to promote in the rural world and within the country, which need time to reverse the long processes of emptying and impoverishing people and territories and which require significant resources. These are reforms and measures that will only be achieved within the framework of a broad political consensus and a commitment and deep involvement of Portuguese society as a whole. However, it is necessary to start somewhere and, at this stage, it is necessary to give priority, as the Government has well done, to the reform of the Portuguese forest, to the restructuring of the forest fire prevention and control systems and of the protection and relief structures, as an essential basis to avoid more tragedies, to ensure the safety of people, institutions and businesses that are located there or to locate, because it is not possible to fix people and activities without security and without confidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u203	The measures taken by the Government with this objective and others which are being prepared through the new mission unit for rural fires are now visible. In the area of structural prevention, with the promotion of a new model of management and exploitation of the forest mosaic, also here well explained by you, the completion of the register, the management of fuel ranges and the creation of new forest-saver teams; in operational prevention, with the strengthening of the patrol missions of the GNR, the Armed Forces and the forest-saver itself in critical periods; and also in the fight, with the significant increase in the number of Permanent Intervention Teams ( IPEs) in firefighters associations, the strengthening of the GIPs ( Protection and Relief Intervention Group), the GNRs, the replacement and strengthening of equipment and vehicles and a more effective involvement of the Armed Forces, especially in the management of air resources and rescue and post-fire surveillance teams. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u204	Mr. Prime Minister, I leave you a final challenge. at a time when, at the level of public systems and services, as is the case today, of education and health, the government is called upon to undertake a faster recovery of the de-investment and degradation to which the actions and omissions of the previous government have led us, at this time a very strong commitment is required with the Portuguese. That is why it is very important — and this is the challenge I want to leave to you — in order to strengthen the confidence of Portuguese in the state and its structures, and in particular with regard to the prevention and fight against forest fires, that this commitment is clearly reaffirmed in the conclusion of this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u205	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u206	Mr President, Mr José Miguel Medeiros, the government did not agree to this on the dramatic 17th of June. I recall that on the day the Government made 100 days in force on 5 March 2016, we constituted the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior ( UMVI ), which then began a substantive work on the characterization and development of an intervention programme in all regions of the interior of the country. During the summer of 2016, Portugal did not suffer the human tragedy of 2017, but was again hit by a wave of fires as it had not happened for many years. And at that time the government made a commitment to be as firm and determined in forest reform as we had been in 2006 to reform civil protection. It is because, as you remember — because at the time, you were a Civil Governor and then you were also a State Secretary of Civil Protection — at the time of civil protection reform, we said very clearly that what we were doing was not solving the underlying problem, because the underlying problem was effectively going through the revitalization of the interior and the reorganization of the forest. What civil protection could do was lend time for forest reform. Even in 2011, I had the opportunity to write that, unfortunately, the time offered by civil protection was not being taken advantage of. And indeed that time has been significant. In the decade prior to 2006, we had a burning area an average of 200 000 ha / year. We lowered, after 2006, to an average of 70,000 ha / year, below 100 000 ago / year that were planned in the forest management plan. And from 2012 onwards, we started to climb to the 100 000 hectares of burned area per year. The waste of this time was tragic. It was tragic because the forest became more disordered. It was tragic because, having decreased the burning area, the fuel increased to burn. And it was tragic because this misuse coincided with significant climate changes, which have caused more dramatic climate situations and more atypical weather phenomena to occur in recent years. We are therefore in worse condition today than we were in 2006. And it was unfortunately necessary for the human tragedy of 112 fatal victims so that a forest reform, which we had begun in a Council of Ministers in May 2016, would have finally aroused the country's interest. It was extraordinary to hear, at that time, the opinion makers said that a reform of the forest was being done in a hurry to respond to the Pedrogão tragedy, ignoring that that reform had been the subject of an extraordinary Council of Ministers in October 2016 and March 2017, which was pending here in the Assembly of the Republic since April 2017 and that what was being done was simply to complete a process that had been initiated many months earlier. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is, in fact, one of the biggest problems in the country to the worst quality of our information, which only awakens to the problem in the midst of tragedy and usually forgets the problem at the right time to prevent the tragedy from happening. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are well aware that forest reform is a long-term challenge. So we cannot ignore what can be done in the medium and short term. Of course, priority must be given to responding to calamity. And, therefore, on 18 June, when we met in Pedrogão, I had the opportunity to meet with the camera presidents together with the Deputy Minister and the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Health, in order to find immediate answers to the needs of the population. The reconstruction process has been very hard, but it has been absolutely essential to restore hope and trust to populations. For me, one example of the resilience of those populations is the fact that, of the 263 first burned houses, destroyed by fires on that day on June 17, only five owners decided not to carry out the reconstruction of these houses. Which means that all others sent a very important message to the country, when, in the face of adversity, they did not give up and, on the contrary, insisted on continuing to want to live and want to give life to that territory. I think we have good reason to note with satisfaction the fact that, of all of these 263 houses, at present, only nine are not yet completed or in operation, because three are in the design phase, two are in the award phase and four are in the assignment phase. of all the houses of first residence destroyed in the fires of June and October, we now have a total of 403 already completed, 181 in works and the rest, all in different stages of development. The support given to the reconstruction of enterprises, the maintenance of jobs, the feeding of animals, the reconstruction of agricultural production capacity and the reconstruction of municipal equipment was a gigantic but of greater importance. Now we also have to do the rest we need to do in the forest. So we started and advanced with the pilot project related to the registration. Therefore, we advanced with the pilot project of the revitalization of the interior, now centred on the Pinhal Interior Revitalization Program, in a work that was designed with the 11 interior pinhal autarchs and which is serving as pilot project for the entire intervention that we have to do in all the interior regions. We have, of course, hoped that the Independent Technical Commission, which in good time the PSD proposed and that the Assembly of the Republic unanimously agreed to create, would produce its analysis of our system of prevention and fight against forest fires. At that time, we were accused of, instead of acting, waiting. But these are reforms that require broad consensus and, if the Assembly of the Republic has appointed an Independent Technical Commission of the highest technical qualification, with half of its members appointed by the Board of Rectors and the other half designated by each parliamentary group, what would have been irresponsible would have been the government's anticipation of the work being done under the aegis of the Assembly of the Republic, precipitating itself in a reform which could then not merit national consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we did well to wait and prepare ourselves. Therefore, as was planned in the week following the submission of the report of the Independent Technical Commission, on 21 October the Government was able to approve all the legislation and measures which had still been prepared by Mrs Urban Constance de Sousa and Mr Jorge Gomes and which translate into law and action the recommendations adopted unanimously in the Independent Technical Commission. The mission unit which, under my direct responsibility, is developing the new model of prevention and combat—in a joint work with the Ministry of Internal Administration, with the Ministry of National Defence, with the Ministry of Agriculture— effectively aims to move from words to acts and realize in the field not only a reform of the forest, not only an interior with more life, but also a model of prevention and combat that ensures the populations greater security, because this must be the first of all priorities. That is why we are and will continue to work, with the serenity and determination with which we face this problem, which requires it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u207	We have thus concluded the first item on the agenda. Mrs. Members will debate with the Government on Bulgaria's Presidency's priorities in the European Council, in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( b ). the Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May on the monitoring, assessment and delivery by the Assembly of the Republic in the construction process of the European Union, and the preparatory debate of the next European Council, pursuant to Article 4(1) ( a ). that of the same Law No 21 / 2012, of 17 May. To open this debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u208	Mr President, just to clarify, are we going to have the two debates separately or together?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u209	Together, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bulgaria presented its priorities with regard to its presidency in the Council of the European Union. They are known, translated and deserve an important consensus of continuity in what are the priorities set out in Bratislava on the future of the European Union. Let me therefore focus, in particular, on this Council and on the summit of the euro area, which will take place on 22 and 23 March. First of all, it will be an atypical Council because it will meet in three different formations: 28, with the participation of all States ; 27, for the discussion of Brexit ; and 19, at the summit of the euro area. I would like to stress three things that seem particularly important to me. With regard to the issue of employment, growth and competitiveness, we follow the draft conclusions on the need to complete the single market, particularly in the energy and digital fields, and we also need to continue to promote free and fair trade by developing trade partnerships, in particular with Mercosur, which is of fundamental economic importance to the European Union. Within this point, the report on macroeconomic imbalances will be considered and we will be pleased to note that Portugal has now been removed from the list of countries with an excessive macroeconomic imbalance. It will also be a good opportunity to reaffirm our intention to see the European pillar of social rights, proclaimed in 21 principles in Gothenburg, transformed into a true plan of action that can be realized as a fundamental pillar of our economic and monetary union. The second topic I would like to highlight concerns Brexit. At the conclusion of the first phase of the negotiations we saw essentially that which was the priority for us, namely the protection of the rights of Portuguese citizens living in the United Kingdom and also the protection of the rights of citizens of the United Kingdom living in Portugal. In particular, we stress the importance of the portability of social rights and the possibility of ensuring family reunification. As regards the opening of the second phase of the negotiations, we wish to be able to maintain with the United Kingdom the closest possible relationship, either from a commercial point of view or from the point of view of cooperation in areas that are fundamental to us, such as the area of defence, especially for a country which, like the United Kingdom, is an Atlantic country. I would like to stress that the Assembly of the Republic has and will always have an essential role in this whole negotiation, since, in addition to the approval by the European Parliament, the exit agreement will also have to be ratified by the British Parliament and by each of the parliaments of the 27 Member States, i.e. from time to time by this Assembly of the Republic. In addition to the Council, in its 28th or 29th formation, this meeting will be marked by a particularly important moment : the completion of the euro area summit. It is a summit that many did not want to exist and that some seek to devalue, but it is an absolutely key piece and, for us, Portuguese, it cannot remain the slightest doubt that it has to be the first of the priorities in the construction of the future of the European Union. There is no future for the European Union that does not require a solid basis and the solid basis on which it must be based is the consolidation of what has been the most important advance achieved so far, which was the constitution of the euro. To that end, it is essential to complete what is already decided, from the outset, the banking union, with the common guarantee of deposits, with the existence of a backstop to support the resolution funds, the advances relating to the European stability mechanism, but we must ensure that this discussion is comprehensive and, above all, that it focuses on what has to be the greatest priority to conclude the euro area as a mature monetary union: we have our own budgetary capacity. I know there are doubts as to the role of this budgetary capacity. Should it serve, above all, to deal with future shocks or to finance investments that promote the convergence of economies? from our point of view, ideally, budgetary capacity should be able to perform both functions, but more important than dealing with future shocks is preventing their existence and what we all know today is what has been known for a long time about monetary union: they do not encourage convergence, on the contrary, accentuate asymmetries between economies. Therefore, priority must be given to having a budgetary capacity to make the investments necessary for convergence possible and this budgetary capacity must therefore be very clearly associated with the exercise of the European Semester. The European Semester should not be a time when the Commission simply makes recommendations to the Member States or places them in situations of excessive imbalances. It must be a time when, by identifying the need for reforms, Member States will be provided with the means necessary for such reforms to be carried out. In the Portuguese case, for example, it is very clear that, as one of our main imbalances focused on qualifications, we should be able to benefit from a budgetary capacity focused on what is essential, in particular the strengthening of the qualifications of the active population, lifelong learning and the development of digital skills as fundamental conditions not only for citizenship, not only for strengthening the dignity of work, but also for improving the productivity of our businesses and for the competitiveness of our economy. We therefore believe that providing the euro area with a budgetary capacity is absolutely essential, but that also obliges us to respond to the question of 'how to finance this budget capacity? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And then we must be clear: the European Union and the euro area need and deserve more own resources. Of course, as the United Kingdom leaves, we will have fewer resources, of course, than with new policies in the area of security, defence, digital, we will have new charges and I believe that we all agree that we should not reduce the resources allocated to the common agricultural policy or cohesion policy. Now, if we have less resources, more needs and we do not want to sacrifice policies that are pillars of the European Union's identity and fundamental to Portugal, such as agricultural policy or cohesion policy, then we need to provide the European Union with more resources. More resources transferred by each Member State from the taxes of its nationals, of course, but we must once and for all accept the proposals that have long been under discussion in the Monti report, i.e. those resources, rather than focusing solely on the efforts of each State, should be able to affect the financial speculation, the import of polluting goods, the transactions in digital space, which are now subject to tax evasion. All Member States, as far as they are concerned, have difficulties in taxing them, but if they are taxed at European level we will have better conditions and will provide the Union with the necessary resources without an additional sacrifice from each Member State which, necessarily, could finance it only by the taxes of its own nationals. It is therefore important that successive reports, which since Delors, from Lord MacDougall, insist on the need for budgetary capacity, turn to realisation, and that the Monti reports, which propose own resources and concrete proposals for the creation of new resources at European level, turn to action and we can implement them. It is with this position that we will participate in the Eurozone Summit and our desire is that, with greater resilience from the eurozone, we can contribute to greater convergence of the Portuguese economy, because there will only be lasting and sustained stability of the eurozone when there is less asymmetry between the different economies and we can all be less at risk. This must be the priority in order to build the future of the European Union on a solid basis rather than on a precarious basis that exposes us to crises like those we had to face in 2008 and 2011. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u211	We moved on to the speeches of the parliamentary groups and started by the PSD Parliamentary Group, which will divide its intervention between Mrs Rubina Berardo and Mr Carlos Gonçalves. Mrs. Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u212	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Mr Prime Minister mentioned what brings us here, the Bulgarian priorities for the presidency, the preparation of the European Council and the Euro summit, but this is also an opportunity to talk about the whole of the European political agenda, and I think that Portugal really needs to deepen this debate, precisely on European policy and here too in this Chamber. Mr Prime Minister, in the European Union it has become habitual to say that we are running a crisis to get into another crisis — it is the financial crisis, the humanitarian crisis, the migration crisis, the security crisis — but it is also useful to enter into the etymological realm of the very word "crisis" and the Greeks in ancient Greece would refer the concept of krisis to a moment of decision, and thus had a notion of crisis as a decisive crossroads. Just as on a road we decided to turn left or decide to turn right, we need prompt and clear mechanisms to respond to these crises, knowing that those decisions that we make invariably shape the future that we will have. Now, from ancient Greece to modern Greece, Prime Minister, in the European calendar, good news is approaching: Greece is moving towards the exit of its adjustment programme after eight years extremely hard for its population. Good news for Greece, good news for Europe. And, in this context, Prime Minister, the statements of the Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Cyprus, were revealing this week. He said that Portugal was « a positive example that gave hope to Greece ». Despite all the praise that Mr. Prime Minister made at the time of the election and victory of Syrisa in the Greek elections, Tsypras was not referring to his work, he was referring to the example Portugal represented by leaving the adjustment programme earlier than Greece.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u213	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u214	It is not the management that gives hope to Greece, it was Portugal, its people and a government that under an adjustment program has achieved a clean exit to the country. [[PSD applause.]] [[Rice from the Prime Minister and from the PS and PCP Members.]] Mr. Prime Minister, you may laugh, but it's the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u215	What would these debates be without these moments of parody?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u216	Mr. Prime Minister, at that crucial moment of crusade, two countries had two different answers: Portugal left the adjustment programme in four years and Greece in eight years, with much more stringent austerity measures than those we had in Portugal. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] More than saying that the reforms of the PSD have brought grace and have spurred economic recovery — which is a fact, and you can ask Mr Finance Minister, when he "uses the hat" of the Eurogroup, if not so - was the effort of the Portuguese to move forward with these reforms in order to open up the economy during the adjustment that allowed the consolidation of the budget and the growth of the weight of exports in the economy that occurs today. However, these reforms cannot be suspended by the current governmental circumstances in Portugal — in fact, it was the Commission who, yesterday, called on its Government to continue with the reforms concerning the imbalances still persisting in the economy, particularly in productivity and in public debt. Mr Prime Minister, in these troubled times in Europe, the Portuguese Government demands uniformity and consistency in speech, a clear message is required and does not vary according to the audience it has in front of it at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u218	This "spargate" which tries to make between the discussions you have in the Council and the conversations you have with your anti-European government partners is neither recommended nor credible, and there are already some cases where the PSD is concerned about some positions, which are also the result of this "spargate". Mr President, why has Portugal been part of a small group of Member States, led by France, which since the beginning of this year have opposed the repetition of the Spitzenkandididad process, which has to do with the process of selecting the next President of the Commission based on the heads of the list of party families, when we already know that this is a step towards European voters and institutions? Mr Prime Minister, today as yesterday during his speech in Strasbourg, has already corrected the confusion between European taxes and own resources. But I ask you why, at the beginning of the debate, and also when you brought up the issue a few weeks ago, you talked about European taxes, saying that you had these suggestions and proposals from Portugal, when we know that they have to do with increasing own resources?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u220	Why did you also assume, Mr Prime Minister, that the Portuguese would not pay these taxes, when there is still no outline of how, for example, the rate on the digital market could be conceived? That is, basically, to think that the Portuguese are automatically excluded from something that does not yet exist a sketch is based on a vision of a very small Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u221	Ah...!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u222	... and ignores that not only do we already have companies, for example, in the digital market as we should also try to encourage the flourishing of this industry—at least that is what the PSD defends. Mr Prime Minister, in the context of the departure from the United Kingdom and the increase in the Union's responsibilities, the national interest said that Portugal can only have one objective: to fight for the maintenance of national envelopes for cohesion policy and agriculture policy. The PSD is very clear, insofar as it considers it essential to strengthen the revenue without penalising taxpayers, without increasing the tax burden on the national taxpayer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u223	We have a new taxpayer party!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u224	... and does not enter into demagogy or confusion of concepts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u225	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u226	... as only diversification of own resources will enable us to meet the budgetary challenges of the Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u227	Say that after what they did in 2013...!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u228	in this view of not penalizing taxpayers, there are other options, such as those already referred to in the Monti report. These are some of the subjects in which the PSD requires a firm position on the part of Mr Prime Minister, because to be pro-European are not enough flourishing speeches, such as what he did yesterday,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u229	You're acknowledging that it was a good speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u230	... concrete action is also needed, with concrete measures that unite the issues of national interest and European interest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u231	Mr Gonçalves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u232	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Member of the Government, Dear Members of Parliament: At one year of its implementation, the process of exiting the United Kingdom of the European Union has not yet made sufficient progress in vital areas for negotiation. We believe it is essential to preserve the future of the European Union and to defend our common policies, that is to say, to continue what we are as Europeans. We know the difficulty of the negotiation process, but we are at a time when it is essential to move from the mere declarations of intention to achieve commitments on the future of the relationship between the United Kingdom and the Union. The current indefinition only contributes to creating a feeling of uncertainty that in no way helps this process, a feeling of uncertainty that is also experienced on the bilateral level, since the United Kingdom, in addition to its historical ties with our country, is one of the main economic partners of Portugal and has a relationship that is deepened by the fact that they live about 400 000 Portuguese in the United Kingdom and about 40 000 British in Portugal. That is why, for us, it is clear that we need to have as concrete knowledge as possible of the direct consequences of Brexit in the bilateral relationship between our two countries. At the economic level, the PSD has already had the opportunity to present in this House a draft resolution recommending that the Government carry out a study on the implications of the departure of the United Kingdom of the European Union to our economy and our businesses, which will have to adapt to a new reality, with new opportunities, is true, but also with new and major obstacles. It is good to know whether the government has already done or is going to carry out this study. On the other hand, for the PSD, the protection of the rights of our citizens residing in the United Kingdom is a clear priority and, despite some progress in the negotiation to which Mr. Prime Minister has already referred, there are still many doubts as to the future of our community, whether that which already lived there at the time of Brexit, that is, on the day of the referendum, whether that which arrives in the transitional period or, still, that which is not less important, which will arrive in the future. Given that in the United Kingdom there are about 3 million citizens of the Union, it is clear from the size of our community that Portugal could become one of the countries most affected by decisions on the free movement of persons. The situation our nationals are living in the United Kingdom is, in many respects, exceptional. The PSD has said it several times in this House and reaffirms it today: it is indeed an exceptional situation. Thus, and considering the complexity of the current situation, we understand that the time has come for the external services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be able to strengthen their support and give an adequate response to this new reality, finally meeting the needs, both administratively and socially, of our community residing in the United Kingdom. That is also Mr. Prime Minister, the expectation of our community. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : The Brexit negotiations cannot, of course, compromise the long-term objective of preserving the European Union. As I said before, it is time to put an end to the uncertainties and make clear what will be the way forward in relation to Brexit: a path that defends citizens and a path that guarantees the freedoms that shape the European project. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u233	The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will also divide its time into two interventions, that of Mrs Carla Tavares and that of Mr João Galamba. First of all, Mrs Carla Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u234	Mr President, Prime Minister, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Under-Secretary of State of the Prime Minister and European Affairs, I begin by greeting Mr Prime Minister for the magnificent and inspiring communication he made yesterday in the European Parliament in Strasbourg. It is very gratifying and also reassuring to know that we finally have a Prime Minister who, instead of always walking on curved backs, well on the contrary, walks from right back and head raised... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... and is able to say, without complexes, what he thinks about the future of Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u235	It is not the PS that decides our opinion!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u236	It was very good to hear you remind everyone of the genesis of the European project. in a time when the challenges facing Europe are the most demanding of all, it is important that we all remember what it is to be European and belong to this Union, based on values such as peace, unconditional defence of democracy, the rule of law, freedom, equality, the dignity of the human person, solidarity. It was very good to hear you say that Europe cannot be shared by the idea that there is no alternative to austerity. After all, there was an alternative and Portugal has been well aware of this. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] It is very important for Portugal to make it clear that its Government and its Prime Minister have the exact notion of what the country thinks about the future of Europe and that they are able to assert, without lukewarmness, on any European stage. Mr Prime Minister, we want you to know that it was with great pride that we heard you yesterday about the progress that has been made in our country and the future of Europe. We also welcome the resolution adopted yesterday in the European Parliament on the multiannual financial framework after-2020 and which, in a way, reflects the position already taken by the Government of Portugal with regard to the increase in the contribution of the Member States and, with regard to European taxes, as regards financial transactions, CO2 emissions and large digital companies. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Socialist Party is focused on the future and, as such, is focused and attentive to the future of Europe. The challenges Europe will face in the coming months and in the coming years will be the most demanding of all — they will demand the commitment of all Member States to strengthen, not weakening, the European project. Migration flows, terrorism, Brexit, the deepening of economic and monetary union, the digital market, permanent structured cooperation, the European pillar of social rights — it will be very important for all Member States to realize that only truly united will we be able to face all these challenges, because what does not weaken us can only make us stronger. The agenda of the next European Council on 22 and 23 March will be again marked by social issues and by monitoring the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights, with reference being made to the recent proposal of the European Commission, announced on 13 March, in order to move forward with a European labour authority. However, we would also like to see another proposal for a recommendation announced on that day by the European Commission, which we consider to be of the greatest importance, which aims at ensuring access to social protection for all workers, either on their own or on their own behalf. I would also like to make a brief reference to the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency, which we think deserve particular attention. These priorities relate, on the one hand, to the important and inevitable debate on the future of work and, on the other hand, to two essential aspects: gender equality and the role of women in the digital world and the monitoring of the effects of the European Parliament and Council Directive on family reconciliation with work and the recognition that young people have a central role in the debate on the future of Europe. The "Old Continent" is really old and we believe that this central role is now given to young people and that the Bulgarian presidency wants to carry out. We are also concerned about Brexit, and we must insist that the Government of London give a full answer to all outstanding issues concerning the rights of citizens so as to ensure that all citizens of the European Union who reside legally in the United Kingdom are not affected by Brexit. Finally, I leave another concern: at its recent passage through Portugal and the Assembly of the Republic, the Vice-President of the European Commission presented a series of prevention mechanisms for a future financial crisis, which are, above all, to create a kind of financial cushion that enables Member States to cope with any future crises. However, we have not heard about mechanisms for strengthening banking supervision, and I think that is very worrying. To choose only reactive measures, rather than preventive measures, does not seem to us entirely alerted or predictable. Mr Prime Minister, we are indeed on the right track. Portugal has known to be the example of other choices successfully, because old routes will never lead us to new paths. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u237	Mr. João Galamba has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u238	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Under-Secretary of State of the Prime Minister and European Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs : Like my colleague Mr Carla Tavares, I wanted to congratulate Mr Prime Minister on his speech yesterday in Strasbourg. The Prime Minister has achieved something that, in my view, is very difficult to find today: he was both a mobilization and an inspiration, being realistic and presenting an effective proposal, which is not always possible at the moment in which we live. I therefore congratulate him because I think he was truly inspiring and presenting an accurate proposal. For me, the most important passage of his speech and which, unfortunately, we do not always see in Heads of Government was a lucid vision on the issue of populism. What Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday in his speech, distinguishing the democratic policy of populist politics, was not a disqualification on the other side, of whom he preferred populist paths or answers, but rather what is expected of a government leader and a politician, who is that of, in the face of problems, facing them, not ignoring them, not disqualifying the people who identify with them, but trying to respond to these problems. The responsibility of any democrat is not to ignore the problems, but to respond actively to them. In fact, the only alternative to a populist response is to recognize the problems brought by populism, but to give them an effective answer, and that is, in our view, what Mr Prime Minister did yesterday. One of the most important issues, and which Mr Prime Minister has not been tired of mentioning, is that of increasing responsibilities, not only those we already have, which already require more resources themselves, but also the new responsibilities that the European Union faces and which certainly require more resources. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group congratulates the Prime Minister for having had the courage to take on the need for more European taxes and also for a greater contribution from the Member States, without which it is not possible to maintain an ambitious speech on Europe. If we want to be consistent with what we say, then we have to propose and defend the conditions that make it possible to implement those same commitments. I bring here today this subject about a debate that will take place tomorrow in this House on the issue of EDP. The responsibility of a politician is not to exteriorize states of soul, it is not to be shocked or outraged, but it is, in the face of concrete problems, to offer solutions. I was surprised that the PSD had not brought up a subject that apparently left it so shocked to the point of marking an urgent debate for tomorrow — indeed, I hoped that the PSD would bring this issue today and strangely not to do so, especially when the Prime Minister has introduced the issue of European taxes and the need to do certain things at European level that are not possible at national level. Mr. Prime Minister, I will not ask you to speak about the specific case of EDP, as it is obvious, but it is one of the examples in which, through groups of companies, it is necessary to move forward to a common tax base within IRC ( corporate income tax ). That is what one expects and not states of soul, not to say that we are very shocked, not to mark internal debates, where little country can do alone, but it is precisely to bring up this problem with regard to European issues. Mr Prime Minister, my question is that, in addition to the taxes you have proposed, what is Portugal's position on the themes of creating a common basis for IRC taxation, because we can have something safe. There will be nothing to solve and, if there are problems of large companies located in multiple countries, the only way to ensure effective taxation is at European level, and not only — but, firstly, at European level — to ensure that such taxation can indeed exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u239	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u240	Mr President, Prime Minister and other members of the Government : The debate today takes place on the day following a speech by the Prime Minister in the European Parliament on the future of the European Union and, despite the optimistic tone that we have been accustomed to, all signs lead us to a more critical analysis of the direction being taken. A few months ago, I had the opportunity to confront, in a debate of these, the difference between theory and reality with regard to the supposed values of the European Union. But after his speech, the subject is again undisturbed. Yesterday, Mr Prime Minister said that "to be European is to belong to a common system of values: peace, unconditional defence of democracy, rule of law, freedom, equality, dignity of the human person, solidarity". And if at some point in the construction of this European project we wanted to think about it, the ideas and values that really govern the European institutions are very different today. Let us see: peace is today an artifact to justify a militaristic drift. That is exactly what we are witnessing with the project of permanent structured cooperation. Using weapons to respond to the political weaknesses that have opened the way to populism is a dangerous choice, the sole beneficiaries of which are the pockets of the large arms industry. But also on the defence of democracy, we saw an increasing caricature. Mr. Prime Minister certainly does not ignore the real growth of right-wing and reactionary forces in power and national parliaments, such as Poland, Austria, Hungary and more recently in the election in Italy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u242	Nor can the value of democracy be of value only to the borders itself and to insist on maintaining agreements with the Erdogan Turkey regime remains an obvious denial of the value of democracy for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u244	Also on the defence of the rule of law could only be ironic, I apologize, because even the European Commission is concerned about the deterioration of the rule of law, and let us see what has happened recently and what opinions have been given about Poland. But let us also look at what has happened, over the past few months, in the Spanish State, next to here, in which a state policy is emphasized to deny fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and to remain elected prisoners, as is the case with Catalonia. And, as it is easily perceptible and more examples we could give, the supposed basic values of this European project fall to the ground with a quick analysis. But the current debate is made of permanent contradictions about the future of the European Union, especially at the moment as regards the budget and its priorities. In the speeches, cohesion is said to be the priority, but in practice millions are diverted to arms and the only thing we have to guarantee today is the increase in national budgets and European financial instruments in the area of security and defence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u245	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u246	While declarations of intent on cohesion and solidarity are being made, the winners of this euro million are already announced: they are the large arms, German and French industries, and this, Prime Minister, has the front opposition of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u248	This is also the debate on the next multiannual financial framework: where the money will be sought and where that money will be spent. We know that the Portuguese Government has had a proposal, in particular the proposals made for the creation of new European taxes. At the time when the United Kingdom exits requires a budgetary reorganization, it seems to us, in fact, that this is an important debate to be held. The Left Block actually demands an increase in the contributions of the richest States, because without it there is no European cooperative dimension. However, we do not, in fact, push aside the idea that capital is called upon to pay, and that is the controversial European taxes, which, in fact, already exist in various matters. For example, the digital economy cannot be a huge informal economy, in which Google and Facebook do not pay taxes. And even we agree that there can be new ways of taxing this economy, generating more and more money and that it will make—and will make sure! — part of our future. As regards the proposed financial transaction tax, the Left Block claims it almost 20 years ago and therefore we also accompany this proposal and its debate. As far as the proposal for tax on polluting companies is concerned, we cannot follow the logic, Mr Prime Minister, because what we do with this type of proposal is to allow — as it is already possible under other agreements — who can pay to pollute it, can do so openly, and we find this to be counterproductive with the urgency of everything we do to combat climate change. But there is a debate before these revenue is realized. It is that these taxes on multinationals and on large capital will not pass, and we will also be here to see what will be the illusions that Mr. Prime Minister will take away from this. For now, what is right is the shift from money to militarism. Question: What does the Portuguese Government say about this? Is the debate on revenue sources to escape an announced defeat? Or is it to hide a submission to a new European budget, in which Portugal will be objectively harmed? Good European students have shown bad results to Portugal over the years. We are talking about democracy and decision-making for States, but the choice is the deepening of ever less democratic mechanisms of budgetary instruments that are increasingly limiting the possibility of autonomous and state-owned decision-making. When, for example, Mr President-in-Office spoke yesterday about convergence mechanisms on a contractual basis, he told us, in fact, of a long-term contract which objectively limits the political choices of each Member State which can be made in the future, then - the vote and the role of democracy itself in each Member State, and here too, we will not be able to follow this type of proposal, because it distorts what is the role of the Member States. So that democracy, in which people are prevented in the future from choosing the joint decisions they have to make, because it is democracy that we speak, Prime Minister, is even the competence of this Parliament and the safeguarding of parliamentary agreements with budgetary implications. Don't you agree, Prime Minister? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u249	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr Luís Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u250	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, Mr Prime Minister, to begin with the matter of the next European Council. It is normal for the March European Council, the Spring European Council, to focus on the recommendations made by the European Commission to each of the Member States on progress or setbacks in matters relating to employment, the economy and competitiveness. When we read the European Commission report, we continue to see that the sermons that the European Commission continues to use relate to the need for Portugal to present structural reforms that help this same growth. In fact, the European Commission has even praised the reforms that Portugal has made over the last seven years in labour market, justice and education. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] But we know the double speech the government has in this matter. In Portugal, the Prime Minister gives an interview where he says that, and I quote, « he repents with the term structural reforms ». [[PS protests.]] He arrives in Strasbourg and says that — and I quote the Prime Minister — « we have to make the reforms according to their structural blockades ». I'm a little creepy! The Minister of Finance goes to the European Parliament and says that — and I quote again — "the structural reforms Portugal has made are a key factor in ensuring good results". Great chill! But as President of the Eurogroup, it goes even further when he says that Greece has to continue to make structural reforms to get out of the crisis situation. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u251	With so much coldness, you better shut up! They're still getting a constipation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u252	So we realize that we have a government with a double speech, a government that speaks according to the audience and according to who is listening.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u253	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u254	That is why, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you three very specific questions on the recommendations of the European Commission. First, the European Commission says that Portugal needs to make additional efforts to consolidate the budget and reforms that promote growth. Next month, the Government will present the national reform plan ( PNR ). What reforms for fiscal consolidation and growth strengthening? Secondly, the European Commission says that Portugal needs to do much more to ensure the short-term sustainability of the health system, of our SNS ( National Health Service ) — otherwise the debts of the SNS. What will happen in the NRP on this matter? Thirdly, the European Commission, with regard to the reform of the IRS ( income tax for natural persons ), says that in terms of distribution, the change in the scale structure leads to increases in Gini's coefficient, which means a more unequal income distribution — page 32 of the European Commission's report. What will the Government do in the PNR with regard to these three recommendations/critiques from the European Commission? [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Allow me, now, to continue on tax matters and to resume the debate that took place yesterday, in which Mr Prime Minister did not respond to the CDS in the European Parliament. I hope you have the opportunity today to respond here in Portugal to the CDS. On a very relevant and very important subject, to understand what the next Community framework is going to be, the CDS has already said very clearly that this should be increased to 1, 3 % of the European Union's gross national income, while the Government says it is 1, 2 %. Only in this difference, in the Portuguese case, do we have about 200 million euros. So I'm giving you a suggestion on how we can increase contributions and, curiously, it's not just me. For example, net contributor countries such as Germany allow for increased contributions, but do not want to discuss other own resources. The Portuguese Government does not remember anything better than to launch not one, not two, but three taxes at European level. [[PS protests.]] And in relation to these taxes at European level, taxes on companies that produce industrially in Europe, taxes on companies of the new digital economy, taxes on financial transactions that are made by individuals, individuals, taxpayers and companies, the Prime Minister says that we will not be worried because these taxes will not be paid properly by the Portuguese. Mr. Prime Minister, I still have memory. In the State Budget for 2017, the Prime Minister entered a fee, the occupancy rate of the subsoil, where it can be read in Article 85 ( 3 ). the, that the municipal rate is paid by infrastructure operators and cannot be reflected in consumer invoices. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister also said that there were taxes that were not paid by the Portuguese. Mr. Prime Minister, I will show you an EDP bill of February this year, which relates to a council that, I think, knows well the one of Guimarães, where you can read, in small lettrines, the following: « The employment rate of the subsoil is defined by each municipality and must be paid by its consumers. Do not keep on seeking. ” That is why, Prime Minister, these promises which make taxes paid by third parties, taxes paid in an ethereal manner are not paid by the consumers we know where they lead—they always lead to the same ones being paid, and they are the Portuguese taxpayers. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I do not have much time to address the question of the Bulgarian Presidency and other issues that are very relevant, but let me address a question that seems very important to me and that has to do with the emergency refugee relocation mechanism. Portugal has scrolls in this area and is already working for some years to be able to receive refugees who are fleeing from war zones, as is the case with Syria. The Bulgarian presidency speaks a lot about the need for more solidarity, but the fact is that the Bulgarian Government, of the 1302 refugees who are committed to receiving it, has only welcomed 60 refugees so far. It is important that the Portuguese Government have a word to say on these matters. We have the authority of those who are fulfilling this matter and we have the authority of those who, from the point of view of the European Union, know that solidarity and cohesion are very important, which are also measured in these matters. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u255	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u256	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members : On the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency, nothing new. In the face of the crisis in — and in — the European Union, the Bulgarian Presidency insists on the political options that have already shown that they do not solve the problems that people are facing and are responsible for their worsening. It continues to escape by tracing as a priority the digital single market, the deepening of economic and monetary union, the strengthening of means in the area of security and defence, accentuating the military pillar with the creation of permanent structured cooperation. At the same time, there is no response to instability and precariousness in workplaces, low wages, unemployment, poverty and inequalities, which affect workers and people. In Portugal, it was demonstrated that we were not condemned to the policy of impoverishment and exploitation pursued by PSD and CDS under the auspices of the European Union. It has also been demonstrated that the path of defence, return and acquisition of rights and income is what enables us to create wealth and employment, contrary to the choices of the European Union and under constant threats and pressures of the various European institutions, which seek to impose the continuation of the policy of cuts in wages, pensions and social benefits, the withdrawal of workers' rights, attacks on public services and social functions of the State and the privatization of strategic sectors and enterprises in our economy. Even the economic and social indicators that have had a positive development result from this path of reinstatement of income and rights rather than the constraints and taxes of the European Union, particularly the euro, which prevent the response to the problems of workers, the people and the country. Promises and encouraging scenarios were not lacking, but two decades of euro meant economic stagnation, social backwardness, debt, deficits, divergence and dependence in Portugal. They now agree with the European pillar of social rights, which does not alter a line of the policies of the European Semester, economic governance, the budgetary treaty and economic and monetary union, but in fact is no more than an achievement to legitimize everything else, level below. Life tells us that the solution is not about insisting on more than that, but about the collapse of the conditionalities of the European Union which are impeding the development of our country. The draft conclusions of the next European Council expressly refers to the creation of a European working authority. We disagree with this proposal not only because it constitutes another attack on sovereignty, but also because it corresponds to a uniformization of workers' rights at least. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic is the most progressive in terms of labour rights at European level, and thus creating such a structure will result in the failure to respect constitutional rights, such as the right to collective bargaining, the organisation of work in dignified conditions that enable the link between working life and personal and family life, the maximum working time limit or weekly rest. The European Union insists on the so-called'structural reforms', in particular on the reform of labour legislation. It certainly does not do so to strengthen the rights of workers; it does so in the perspective of going further in the exploitation of workers to impose old instruments of attack on their rights, to lower wages and increase the working day, all the pretext of modernity and productivity. With regard to the debate on the future of the European Union, it is important to say that what is on the table is the re-foundation of the European Union by deepening the process of capitalist integration as well as its nature — federalism, militarism and neoliberalism. The creation of the European Finance Minister's office means the mutilation of the sovereignty of the Member States at the budgetary and financial level. The introduction of taxes at the level of the European Union removes the possibility of obtaining revenue by the Member States because it is channelled to the European Union. We completely reject this strategy. We therefore defend the strengthening of the European Union's budget through the contributions of the Member States on the basis of gross national income, which is the even more fair model, to ensure economic and social cohesion through public investment, support for the national productive sector, creation of employment with rights, the enhancement of public services, and not to accentuate divergence, nor to promote the arms race with the strengthening of security and defence amounts. In conclusion, we would also like to refer to the situation in Syria. The aggression against Syria, in contempt of a sovereign State, is supported by the United States and its allies, who whiten, support and animate the criminal action of the terrorist groups responsible for heinous crimes and brutal violations of human rights, while developing a huge campaign of propaganda and lies to hide that are the terrorist groups that keep the population of Ghouta hostage and that prevent the aid to the people as well as the use of humanitarian corridors. We express our solidarity with the victims of the war of aggression against Syria and its people and we defend that there is a negotiated solution to respect for the sovereignty of the Syrian people, for their right to decide, without external interference, to put an end to this war. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u257	For an intervention, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : The Greens reaffirm, in this debate, that it may be very important that the bodies and institutions of the European Union should not lose sight of some factors that contributed to Brexit and also to the results, which we all know, of certain referendums that have been held in some Member States of the European Union, particularly in France, Ireland and others that we could mention here, in which citizens have clearly stated their dissatisfaction with the clear divorce between European elites and the production of results in policies effectively developed for citizens. That is to say, they cannot lose sight of the fact that this divorce does not satisfy the peoples of the different states of the European Union. In fact, the problem is that at the level of the European Union elites are not aware of this reality and of the feelings of the peoples. I think that is why we continue to insist on an increase in the expenditure on defence to the dimension at which we are present. For example, permanent structured cooperation is clearly a deepening of this militaristic bet. That is not the people's demand. This increase in the defence budget certainly brings benefits to the armaments industry, particularly that of France and Germany, but Mr Prime Minister, also brings disadvantages for the wagering and strengthening of social and cohesion policies so claimed by the citizens and the various peoples of the Member States of the European Union. And that is how this gap between the needs of citizens and the priorities advanced by the European Union, particularly at the budgetary level, is being undermined. That is why Mr Prime Minister says: 'Well, with the increase in the defence budget, we have new charges here and we necessarily need more resources'. And there comes the history of European taxes. For those who like European federalism, I imagine it is a great flag and a great conquest, but for those who do not see this logic and this model is serious. Why is it serious? I am not going to comment now on what the taxes affect — the position of the Greens with regard to the polluter-payer principle is well known — and I have also seen that some banks which, before, did not have exactly the same position of the Greens now begin to raise awareness of the importance of not basing environmental policies on the polluter-payer principle, but, yes, in other preventive ways that really safeguard the protection of the environment, and that is important. The truth is that these European taxes will withdraw until Member States obtain their own revenue by transferring this revenue to the European Union. Mr Prime Minister, the position of the Greens on this subject is also well known: the budget of the European Union must be built through the contributions of its Member States, depending on the gross national income of each country. In fact, that should be the logic of building the European Union budget and should be the basis for promoting cohesion policies that effectively meet the needs of citizens rather than the needs of the United States of America, NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) and the arms industries. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u259	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the last item on our agenda is closed. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and other members of the Government for their presence. Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro will give accounts of draft resolutions that have entered the Bureau. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u260	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions 1418 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the amendment of Ordinance No 236 / 2013 of 24 July approving the regulation of the Investment Trade measure ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1419 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to enable the establishment of centres of high scientific and technological competence for the polytechnic institutes within the country ( PSD ), which fall to 6. the Commission, 1420 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Support for the modernisation of commercial enterprises, including traditional trade, in places where new projects of large commercial areas are being created or expanded in existing ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1422 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the protection of citizens who acquire property in the event of judicially declared insolvency of individual enterprises and entrepreneurs who operate in the area of civil construction or economic insufficiency of the person responsible for repairing defects in buildings ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1423 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the appreciation of the geostrategic importance of the Madeira archipelago ( PS ) and 1424 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a plan for the urgent rehabilitation and requalification of the Vallis Longus Basic School in Valongo ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-15.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only take account of the agenda for tomorrow's meeting, which will normally start at 10 a.m. the first point is under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, an up-to-date debate required by the PSD, on equity and competitiveness in corporate taxation, of the second point is the joint assessment of draft resolutions 1267 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Geostrategic position of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and Madeira ( PSD ), 1316 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the geostrategic importance of the Azores ( PS ), 1390 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, together with the Regional Government of the Azores, take the necessary measures for a political link that enhances the geostrategic and geopolitical importance of that Autonomous Region ( CDS-PP ), 1415 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By the strategic enhancement of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( CDS-PP ) and 1423 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the appreciation of the geostrategic importance of the Madeira archipelago ( PS ). The third point follows the general discussion of Bill No. 759 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recovers for the public domain the ownership and management of the basic telecommunications network and the provision of the universal telecommunications service ( second amendment to the Telecommunications Bases Act, Law No 91 / 97 of 1 August ) ( BE) together with draft resolutions 1411 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By defending the national interest and control of Portugal Telecom ( Os Verdes) and 1022 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — To halt the liquidation of PT, to defend workers and the national interest ( CFP ). The fourth point is the joint assessment of draft resolutions 911 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make every effort with the Spanish State to stop uranium exploration in Salamanca, at our border ( The Greens ), 1397 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop all efforts and endeavours to ensure that the Protocol of Action between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain is properly complied with to apply to environmental assessments of plans, programmes and projects with cross-border effects ( CDS-PP ), 1433/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government require the Spanish Government to conduct a cross-border environmental impact study on uranium mines in Retortillo-Saintidad ( PSD ), 1455/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, under the Protocol of Action between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain to apply to environmental assessments of plans, programmes and projects with cross-border effects, adopt the necessary measures with the Spanish State with a view to suspending any final decision on the implementation of the project of the processed uranium factory and mining in Retortillo-Saintidad ( Salamanca ) ( PCP ), 1406 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures with the Spanish authorities to prevent the installation of the uranium mine in Retortillo-Saintidad ( BE ), 1409 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate efforts to stop the exploitation of uranium in Retortillo with the Kingdom of Spain and international bodies ( PAN) and 1412 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure compliance with the Protocol of Action between Portugal and Spain within the framework of the exploitation of uranium in Salamanca ( PS ). of the fifth point is the assessment of petition No 191 / XIII ( 2. a ) — Establishment of the status of the informal caregiver of the person with Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative dementias or pathologies and creation of the national day of the caregiver ( Group of Informal Caregivers of Alzheimer's Patients and other Similar Dementies ) and of the draft resolutions 1400 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider dementias and Alzheimer's disease a social and public health priority; that it develop a national plan for intervention for dementias; that it adopt the measures necessary for adequate support for these patients and their families; and that it create and implement the status of the informal caregiver ( CDS-PP ), 1488/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to support informal caregivers ( NAPs) together with, in general, the projects of lein.o 801 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the status of the informal caregiver and reinforces the support measures for dependent persons ( makes the third amendment to Decree-Law No 101 / 2006 of 6 June 2006 and the tenth amendment to the Labour Code) ( BE) and 804 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthen support for informal caregivers and dependents ( PCPs ). The sixth point is followed by the assessment of petition No 253/ XIII ( 2 ). a ) — They request the creation of an exception regime in access to reform for teachers ( Maria Manuela Jesus Ferreira Alves et al.) and draft resolutions 1396 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — proposes a transitional scheme for the retirement of teachers and educators with a view to creating justice in the retirement scheme ( The Greens ), 1402 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the study and subsequent opening of a negotiation for a special retirement scheme for primary and secondary education educators and teachers ( CDS-PP ) and 1407 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of long-term contribution careers and consideration of retirement schemes relating to specific situations, including teaching ( CFP ). On the seventh point, without discussion, resolution No 65/ XIII ( 3 ) is scheduled. ( a ) — Approves the Treaty between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Spain by which the closing line of the Min and Guadiana Rivers is established and the international divides of both rivers are delimited, signed in Vila Real, on 20 May 2017. Finally, on the eighth point, there will be regular votes, which will take place at 12 noon. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 9 minutes.]]
