ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries. Mrs. Members of the first item on the agenda include the debate on draft resolution No 1502 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Portugal 2020 and its reprogramming ( PSD ). To present the draft resolution, Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal 2020, the name of the partnership agreement concluded between Portugal and the European Commission, sets out for the period 2014 - 2020 the principles and priorities for programming for Portugal's economic, social, environmental and territorial development policy. The guidance for results emerges as one of the structural principles of the governance and management of Community funds, to be measured on the basis of indicators of results and of implementation, for the sole benefit of the implementation of funds, with a view to ensuring the quality of supported investments. Portugal 2020 provides key investment tools for central, local and economic operators. Having been committed to thematic operational programmes, nationally, and regionally operational programmes, Portugal 2020 is essentially intended to contribute to the reduction of asymmetries and the strengthening of the social, economic and territorial cohesion of our country. The main objective is even to reduce the asymmetries that exist in Portugal and strengthen cohesion, with public investment and investment in the economy, modernising it and internationalising it, and strengthening the capacity of scientific and economic actors to create sustainable and quality growth. As has been customary in the implementation of the various Community support programmes and more than half of the period of operation, it is important to make an evaluation and prepare a reprogramming. Reprogramming to redefine resources by redefining priorities, taking into account the implementation of the programme, is a useful and important exercise. We know that the Government has initiated the process, having sent a document with strategic guidelines for reprogramming with a view to concluding until the end of March. The reactions did not delay: the coordination and regional development committees, the regional councils and the National Association of Municipalities expressed their dissatisfaction with the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u3	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u4	In addition, there were criticisms on the part of all party political quadrants — colourless, without ideologies — who have publicly expressed the legitimate concern about a proposal which calls into question the central objective of Portugal 2020, which is the strengthening of the country's social, economic and territorial cohesion. After all, what does the government propose? Does it propose to use funds from the financial instruments in the regional operational programmes to strengthen programmes for the regions? No, no, no. Unfortunately, it aims to use hundreds of millions of euros for current expenditure, thus emphasizing the budgeting of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. And this is not acceptable when we know well the ambition to do more and better in different convergence regions, in the most disadvantaged regions of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u6	in the thematic programmes, nationally, the Government intends to divert funds, plus a few hundred million euros, from structural projects to the interior and to internationalisation of the economy to the metropolitan areas. And this is also unacceptable. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u7	Materials such as the urban water cycle, which are decisive for the strengthening of low water and sanitation networks, or the requalifications of the railways of the Beiras and the Lower Alentejo, so important for the forwarding of our goods to Europe, will be postponed in exchange for a metro line of Lisbon, in a model that does not even satisfy the interests of the metropolitan area. In other words, instead of taking advantage of this reprogramming to strengthen the fight against desertification and promote the cohesion of the territory, the Government intends to do so to meet other needs. They say one thing but they do another! We have always heard the rulers defend cohesion and say that this time it will be, but at the moment of truth, when more Community funds could and should be allocated in this fundamental fight, the Government intends to strengthen investments or in places outside convergence regions or in areas in which the State budget itself is to settle. [[PSD applause.]] That is why no one has yet defended the reprogramming proposed by the Government. The proposal, fortunately, is not yet closed. March has passed, April is almost over and we continue without a final proposal. Will the government measure the tone of protests and concerns? If so, I think it is important that this House also takes note of its concerns. And this debate is for this very reason. Are parties concerned about the ongoing process or not? Do you agree with the proposal that the PSD makes to ensure that reprogramming does not promote the transfer of appropriations from the most disadvantaged regions to the most developed? Do you agree, or do you not agree, that reprogramming should be done financially by strengthening existing programmes and preventing them from being used in matters falling within the competence of national programmes? Do you agree, or do you not agree, that the reprogramming of the thematic programmes maintains the criteria of the national division for strengthening the country's social, economic and territorial cohesion? These are the issues that need to be discussed. This is what the Portuguese want to know about us all. I remember: the process is not yet completed. We are all in time to contribute to this debate, helping to make the decision better defend the national interest. We already know what the authorities, regional development coordination committees and economic and social actors stand for: they all want to strengthen investment in convergence regions and equipment that can strengthen the competitiveness of the economy, and they all want to use this reprogramming to strengthen national cohesion. For us, PSD, the issue is very clear. We are on the side of a reprogramming that responds to the enormous challenge of rebalancing the country, which fights regional asymmetries and thus strengthens national cohesion. And we are not available for a reprogramming based on the diversion of funds from the underprivileged regions to the most developed regions, nor on facilitating reprogramming of budgeting, with a view to the use of Community resources for current expenditure. Today, we will also know what the rest of the parties think. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u8	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, the Bureau registered four Mrs to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u9	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u10	You have the floor, therefore, to ask for clarification, Mr Hugo Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, first of all, we congratulate the PSD on choosing the issue, which is no more than one taking responsibility for some of the mistakes that it made in the negotiation of Portugal 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u13	Secondly, I would like to say to you that the Socialist Party clearly and transparently assumes the objectives of reprogramming. This transparency and how to act are the opposite of how these matters have been worked out in the past. I recall the Social Democratic Party — and as it is admitted in the very explanatory statement of the draft resolution under discussion — that the previous Government was only concerned about being on the podium to be the first to sign the partnership agreement. It was a mere cosmetic operation, since this agreement was not going to satisfy the real needs of the Portuguese, as criticisms have come to light, particularly those made by the autarchs and already referred to here by Mr Emídio Guerreiro, and it was also an ideological vision in which the infrastructure was no longer needed for Portugal. It was just ideological obsession. Since we are talking about Portugal 2020 and beyond that, we remember that almost two years after the programme began in November 2015 — that is, when the current government took possession of it — its implementation was close to zero. Mr. Emídio Guerreiro, how does it justify that the implementation of the programme, at the end of two years, was close to zero? In a programme that should have started two years earlier, as is explained so strongly that it certainly only harmed Portuguese society? However, in the project presented, in its intervention and in many places, we have heard a message that, even if repeated until exhaustion, does not make it true. The Socialist Party argues that there is no transfer of appropriations from the operational programmes of the least developed regions to the operational programmes of the developed regions and we support the full scope of the thematic operational programmes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u15	in this way, we ask the honourable Member: why repeat to exhaustion an assertion that you know is not true? Is it political use or is it the old and bold attempt to put Portuguese against Portuguese, in this case the interior against the coast, a situation in which the Government of which you were a member? Or is it simply an attempt to show that work is being done in vast regions of the country, after the disastrous results of the local elections? Well, we know that after the hecatomb at the local level, the PSD went into another record, and so on. Regarding Portugal 2030, it entered into the logic of dialogue, changing the paradigm. Until then, the worst, showing the inability to accept that an alternative could be possible to improve the lives of citizens and economic growth, which, this year, is the largest since 2000 — 2, 7 %. In 2017, these data are unquestionable. It is a percentage higher than the European average. The strategy of the Socialist Party is the commitment to growth and that is how Portugal 2020 and its reprogramming should serve the economy, our businesses and the development of human capital. Can the Socialist Party count on the PSD for this country's development strategy? Let's hope so. That this debate should not be more than one taking responsibility for the mistakes already made in the negotiation of Portugal 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u16	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, first of all I congratulate the PSD for bringing to debate a very relevant issue, namely the reprogramming of the current Community framework. Mr President, the CDS is not against the reprogramming of a Community framework, which has always happened in the past - it is justified and makes a lot of sense that it is done - the big issue is to know how it is done, at the cost of what investments and for what it is being made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u19	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, allow me to make a brief parenthesis to say that I do not agree with the criticism, very vehemently, that Mr Hugo Costa made to the current Minister of Economics, Manuel Caldeira Cabral, who was, in fact, responsible for the Socialist Party's negotiation of the previous Community framework and that now he has just been, I would say, almost publicly shaken by the Socialist Party's bench. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Filipe Marques.]] [[PS protests.]] It is a criticism of the Minister of Economics that I do not follow. Mr Hugo Costa could have made many other criticisms to the Minister for Economic Affairs, but for these, he certainly lacked some verbal courage. Mr Emídio Guerreiro, I would like you to respond to my concern about three matters. The first issue relates to the transparency of reprogramming. I told you that we are not against reprogramming, but the truth is that this government is not the first reprogramming it does. This government has already reprogrammed the Community framework by taking funds which were planned for the Cascais Line and has deemed to have allocated them to other mobility matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u20	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u21	The big question is that, with this geared reprogramming, which has not even been made transparently, an investment that would be structural for the metropolitan area of Lisbon — I am talking about the investment in the Cascais Line — it has ceased to be done and now is emerging the need to find new forms of financing for this Line, which, above all, are totally unsatisfactory, because what is announced in the reprogramming does not really serve to cover the planned investment. The second subject relates to qualifications and vocational education. The CDS bench has vehemently denounced the delay in payments in vocational education. in this sense, we realize that, at a time when the Socialist Party says that the page has been turned, the words of the State Budget continue to be insufficient, which is very evident when we speak, for example, in qualification and when we see that the words attributed to the IEFP (Instituto do Emprego e Formation Professional), at this moment, is below what the law itself provides. The legal transfer to the IEFP is not being carried out. The third issue relates to the following: the CDS has already denounced the risk that there is currently a reprogramming to withdraw funds from the country for investment on the coast, but the truth is that this risk also exists in the next Community framework, i.e. Portugal 2030. I know that this is not the subject of today's debate, but we cannot fail to state that same risk. Now, I wanted to tell you that this is exactly why we, here on this bench, do not pass a blank check to the government, because we fear that the government can try or want to do in Portugal 2030 what it is doing in Portugal 2020, which is a gross mistake, is a mistake that undermines the cohesion of our country. I would therefore like you to be able to answer these three questions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u22	To reply, Mr. Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u23	Mr. President and Mr. Members thank you for the questions put by Mr Hugo Costa and Mr Mota Soares. Mr Hugo Costa, I must agree with Mr Mota Soares, reminding the Socialist Party that in drawing up Portugal 2020 the current Minister Caldeira Cabral was the one who was representing the Socialist Party on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u24	And he made harsh criticisms!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u25	So if, in fact, you are currently having some difficulty dealing with your past, that is something that goes beyond me and that goes beyond us all. But I would like to say to the honourable Member the following: if, in fact, the Socialist Party is in line with what the Member here has said, then it is in contradiction with that - and this is the truth, it is not a repeated thing until the exhaustion - which results from the strategic guidance document that the Government has sent to the CCDRs and the management units. You didn't see the document? You didn't meet with these entities? Have you not expressed your concerns to him? There is a written orientation but, as I have had the opportunity to say, the process is not closed, and yet it is not closed, because neither the authors of your party have agreed. All the autoarchs of his party protested against, as I had the opportunity to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u26	It's not exactly like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u27	Without color and no ideology, there was no one who defended the strategic guidance document that the Government made for the reprogramming of Portugal 2020. That is why we are here, is exactly to discuss and contribute to making the decision as best as possible. I am pleased to realize that the PS is with the PSD and will certainly vote in favour of our draft resolution, because in it they fix exactly these lines. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u28	This is where we will see whether or not the PS is against the transfer of money from the interior to the coast and against the manipulation of money in national programmes to avoid promoting national cohesion. Mr Mota Soares, I sincerely hope that this debate will certainly help to strengthen transparency in the ongoing reprogramming. In fact, this is also one of the intentions of the PSD to promote this debate, i.e. to bring to the public and media space what is being discussed in the offices between the government, the regional councils, the program management units, the coordination committees and the National Association of Municipalities. This is the advantage of this debate! To make things clear and to let all Portuguese know at the end of the day, after all, who is in favour of cohesion and who is not. Now I would like to say to you, Mr President, that what you have referred to in relation to qualification and vocational education is one of the subjects that concerns us, because in this strategic document you are planning to relocate these funds from the POCH (Operational Human Capital Programme) thematic programmes to regional programmes, i.e., you want, or rather, I hope, the government to pay this expenditure, which so far were at national level, thereby reducing the capacity to intervene in those regions that are their challenges. As for Portugal 2030, I would like to tell you that we have a lot of hope that your concerns in it will not be reflected. What was important at the moment was in fact to convey to European decision makers a strong position on the country's ambition to maintain the funding levels of Portugal 2020 for Portugal 2030. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u29	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the PSD on the opportunity of the topic that has brought us to the discussion, because we also believe that we are in fact living a phase that we find decisive in defining the reprogramming of Portugal 2020. Time has come and also the opportunity to seek to enhance these financial resources, not only to modernize our economy but also, above all, to view these resources as a way to promote social justice, from the outset through mechanisms that promote the fight against social inequalities. But it is still time to look with responsibility for the problem of our country's regional asymmetries, the desertification of the countryside and the abandonment of the rural world and to prepare and guarantee the financial means to seek the answer that is necessary to ensure that our resources are valued, including our natural resources and also our environmental resources. And when we talk about the importance of modernising the economy, we will have to look at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, because they actually play an absolutely decisive role in our economy, not only because they represent 99% of the total number of businesses in our country but also because they are responsible for 80% of the total employment. It happens that, despite the importance they take from the point of view of our economy, the fact is that, in general, these companies continue to have excessive levels of indebtedness and this scenario is even more worrying if we take into account that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are very dependent on banking credit, especially in the short term, in fact, which is not beyond the responsibility of the PSD in this process. That is, the situation in which micro, small and medium-sized enterprises continue to live today does not allow them the desirable contribution to the resumption of business investment, which, by contrast, is not reflected as a contribution in the relaunching of the Portuguese economy and economic growth. But when we talk about the reprogramming of Portugal 2020, we must also not forget that in the Greens it is absolutely important and that it has to do with the need to boost the energy efficiency of companies. This is a matter that needs to be borne in mind not only by the importance it has from the economic point of view but, above all, by the importance associated with it from the environmental point of view and its potential contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and combating climate change associated with them. It is also necessary to bear in mind the need to reflect in this reprogramming the fight against regional asymmetries, the fight against desertification of the interior and the abandonment of the rural world. This is therefore an absolutely central area, which cannot continue to be ignored or postponed and which requires clear and objective answers and which in our view must be addressed with the imperative nature in the reprogramming of Portugal 2020. But, Mr President, we look at the text of the initiative that we are now discussing and we do not understand what the PSD really wants. It says the PSD, and I quote: « in the past, the implementation of European funds in Portugal has privileged a strategy to spend a lot instead of a strategy to spend well. The percentages of programme implementation were very high and very concentrated in the final periods of each framework, but too often, non-reproductive, economic and social investments were financed, which, moreover, involve high conservation costs and do not generate profitability to support them. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, we could not, in fact, agree more, especially when the PSD says that, in the past, the implementation of the European funds in Portugal has privileged a strategy to spend a lot instead of a strategy to spend well. But the doubts remain, Mr President, and I therefore leave you a request for clarification in a multi-choice manner. Mr Emídio Guerreiro and the PSD with this initiative, what do you want? Is it an act of PSD contribution for what you've done in the past? Is it some kind of penance that the PSD now wants to share with the Portuguese? Is it an effort to make us believe that the world has only begun now or is it an affirmation of the Franciscan policy of "look at what I say and not what I do"? Mr President, some of these have to be, and we would like to know which one. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u31	Mr André Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u32	Mr President, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, we congratulate the PSD on the schedule of this debate on the Portugal 2020 programme and we cannot fail to express our full agreement with the first paragraph of the resolution which we are defending today and which we have just quoted: "In the past, the implementation of the European funds in Portugal has privileged a strategy to spend a lot instead of a strategy to spend well. Do not keep on seeking. ” We could no longer agree with this analysis, which is also self-critical, in the management of European funds, but we believe, even by the signs of convergence between the PSD and PS, that this will not change. In fact, we believe that the same mistakes will remain, because the productive vision with which they negotiate and manage these funds will prevail. We are sure that PSD and PS will find an easy agreement to maintain their policy of using European funds to expand the intensive and agrotoxic agricultural sector, the growth of intensive agriculture, the deployment of increasingly unsustainable crops of irrigation and the growth of the aquaculture industry. All of this under the usual economic vision of increasing GDP. The challenge that the NAP faces is another: is the new PS/PSD coalition able to bring something new to the negotiating table and ensure a structural bet in the preservation of the environment? Will it be able to cut off this malfunction in the economy and the market and stop blindly financing highly polluting industries through European funds? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, more than implementation rates, it is important to ensure that environmental regeneration rates are increased in a country devastated by decades of bad agricultural and industrial practices. The challenge remains, Mr. Deputies. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President José Matos Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u33	To reply, Mr. Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u34	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions raised by Mr José Luís Ferreira and Mr André Silva. Mrs. Members, I recommend reading the second paragraph of our draft resolution, where we make the transition from the past to which we refer to what is today, with the transformation of paradigm that Portugal 2020 has brought,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u35	... based on results and not on expenditure, i.e. that the investment would have to be measured and evaluated. Now, it is exactly Portugal 2020 that marks this paradigm shift and this transition between the previous models, to which the PSD and I refer, for those who are the current paradigms, and that is why we argue that this reprogramming should maintain this primacy, that is, the primacy of the results and not that of the implementation. I believe that if you read the second paragraph of our draft resolution, and if you want to quote it, you will be able to clarify the fundamental issue. But, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I am glad that the Greens Ecological Party agrees with us on the difficulties and ambitions that must be in this reprogramming and support where necessary. That is what we want with this draft resolution, it is to realize what parties sitting in this House want to do and are available to say. Do you or do you not agree with us in preventing the transfer of funds from the regions to the metropolitan areas? Do you or do you not agree with us that the reprogramming of the thematic programmes should not be carried out on the basis of the budgeting of the government's sectoral responsibilities? That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Are they with us in conversation or are they with us in decision? It is because in the conversation, which is easy, we all realize that everyone agrees: "We are against, we have to be in favour of cohesion, we have to fight asymmetries, we do not want to transfer resources from the interior to the coast, we need to support the economy". So, if so, let's give this signal to those who are negotiating this with the partners, since the process is not closed, and we'll all be on the side of the partners,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u36	... from those who have told the government over the past few weeks that they do not want this reprogramming of almost EUR 3000 million. They said: "We don't want that! We want a reprogramming to meet the objectives set out in Portugal 2020, which are to combat asymmetries and strengthen social cohesion ». Welcome to this debate. Welcome to this position. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u37	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the Government of the Socialist Party took office, Portugal 2020 ( PT 2020) was already in operation almost two years ago. It was another inheritance received from the right government. This financial framework for investment support was fully negotiated by the PSD/CDS coalition government and, unfortunately, over the years, all potential actors benefiting from their financial support were fully aware that the model did not effectively correspond to the country's needs. This certainty was reaffirmed again in the hearings this week in the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works by the voices of the presidents of the regional councils of the CCDR and also by the National Association of Municipalities. In addition, in the years of operation of PT 2020, in the hands of the PSD and the CDS, there was a level of contracting and payments far below the expected, generating many criticisms by economic operators and authorities. But it was very determined, involving a good strategy for accelerating access to funds, that this Socialist Party Government was able to put the implementation of the Programme at cruise speed. This aspect is quite important not only because the country needs the means available but also to avoid compromising the start of the 2030 Programme. at present, the implementation rate is 23 % and approval is 62 %. Portugal is first on the ranking of countries with a higher level of payments for reimbursement of European Union expenditure. That is why the Government has put some assumptions in this reprogramming process in order to avoid jeopardizing the successful implementation of the PT 2020. From the outset, financial appropriations have been maintained either through the PT 2020 programme itself, either through operational programmes ( OPs ) or even through the funds. In addition, the reprogramming model includes only internal and eligibility adjustments and transfers between funds and operational programmes. Mr President, this is the context for the PSD to come to this debate, presenting a diploma that first reflects a self-criticism to the model which it has negotiated and signed with the European Union and, secondly, assuming once and for all — and better later than ever! — the success of the implementation of PT 2020 by the Government of the Socialist Party. It is true that the recitals of the draft resolution in question are sick in errors, perhaps deliberate, giving the idea of a prompt attempt to confuse public opinion to pass the thesis that, for example, adjusting the thematic programmes is the same thing as withdrawing money from the cohesion regions. I am sure that the PSD knows that the three thematic programmes — COMPETE 2020, Social Inclusion and Employment and Human Capital, are intended exclusively for cohesion regions and therefore within. After all, these programmes plus regional programmes account for 85% of all funding. [[PSD protests.]] Moreover, it should be stressed that the diploma that supports this debate is far from the usual narrative that the PSD inaugurated when it emerged from the government and puts the discussion on a different point: in a new reflection that we consider relevant and that we will not deviate from its appreciation. After months and months of attempting to deny the reality of the success of the implementation, the PSD has now been anchored in the discussion on the quality of investments, without naturally resisting the temptation to imply that there is a risk of misappropriating the funds available in PT 2020. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not run away from this debate and, above all, we are available to demonstrate the quality of the options, leaving no doubt that PT 2020 is being implemented in accordance with its strategic objectives and in full alignment with the National Reform Programme. It should be clear that investment approvals and current options by companies, authorities, business associations, public administration, among others, within the framework of the Programme meet requirements and cost-benefit balance in order to contribute to the sustainable economic and social development and the quality of life of populations. The results are, in fact, very expressive in many areas, as will be seen throughout this discussion today. But if the marking of this debate reflects an inflexion in the PSD position with regard to the analysis of PT 2020, the central issue of the reprogramming analysis for the PSD, as set out in its draft resolution, corresponds to a lack of conceptual support and without possible demonstration. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Reprogramming is not a new programme. We are reprogramming nearly EUR 3000 million of investment for cohesion regions. In fact, transfers between programmes have no effect for cohesion regions, because all programmes are intended for convergence regions, not to be changes in the Lisbon and Algarve Operational Programmes, but that, as you know, they cannot be moved and therefore the question is not put and this debate is a lot of nothing. [[The PSD Member's laughs Emídio Guerreiro.]] But this effort of the Socialist Party Government contrasts with the criticisms that were heard when the PSD and CDS presented the partnership agreement of PT 2020 in 2013. at the time, the devaluation of cohesion objectives was so evident that the north claimed that it had less than 43 % of the funds and the centre claimed that it had less than 56 % of the funds in relation to the National Strategic Reference Framework. We are therefore in this reprogramming process, correcting the mistakes of the past and we will do everything to return, using the cinematic terminology that some have used, to programmes with the spirit of a Robin of the Altruistic Forests from the point of view of the territory, which you have corrupted during the negotiations of PT 2020, in 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u39	It's been the opposite! The Robin of the Forests on the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u40	in practice, the reprogramming model will strengthen strategic alignment with the National Reform Programme, complement other sources of funding and concentrate support in order to generate more effective public policies. This is the essence of the reprogramming and must be categorically denied and denied, without any hesitation, that this reprogramming exercise harms cohesion regions or that there is a deepening of the bad options in the negotiations of PT 2020, such as the inclusion of more current expenditure in programmes than that already included by the PSD and CDS itself and that had already been the target of strong criticism. Mr President, I conclude by believing that municipalities, CCDR (regional coordination and development committees ), business associations and the Government are not far from a firm consensus to consolidate a reprogramming that ensures the good progress of the Programme and ensure the objectives of strengthening support for business investment, the qualification of Portuguese, urban mobility and local investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u41	Mr. Deputies, two Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. Do you intend to answer together or separately?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u42	I am replying together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u43	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if well oriented and implemented, Portugal 2020 is a great opportunity. Since the government launched the document with the guidelines for reprogramming, we, the PSD, have listened to coordination committees, the city halls, economic and social actors, citizens. The opinion of all of them has two things in common: the first is that all of them validate the need and importance of reprogramming the funds at this stage, until, despite the denial of the government, everyone knows that much is not going well; the second is that all of them disagree with the Government's guidelines for this reprogramming.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u45	Written guidelines!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u46	They disagree, because they do not accept the government to use it to pay the current costs of the ministries, to deplete the ministries. They disagree, because they do not accept that money is diverted from the regions most in need to the metropolitan areas, inverting the logic of reducing asymmetries and strengthening cohesion. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] The gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party agree with the reversal of the objectives set against the autarchs, against the country? Do you agree with the diversion of funds from the regions that we want to bring together to give the most developed regions? Don't you want to rebalance the country after all? Do you want or do you not want to improve cohesion, cohesion so necessary, so late and so often announced by yourself as a concern? Are you worried about this process or not? If they are, they will support the PSD proposal. If they are, then they will force the government not to distort Portugal 2020, not to question the principle of results guidance and not to misuse the funds just to say that they have been executed. If they are not, then they have to recognize it, because they will be responsible for wasting more of this opportunity, for exacerbating the gap between our regions and for maintaining the discriminatory logic that creates regions and Portuguese first and second. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u47	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Pereira, I understand the effort you have made to try to ensure that this reprogramming which we all give as good and as reasonable meets this requirement, which is unanimous among all, that the reprogramming must be turned to cohesion, that is to say, correct regional injustices and asymmetries. Moreover, there are numerous complaints at the European Court of Justice to alert the need to maintain this same course: to take the OPs, regional and national, and not to divert them from the convergence regions, NUTS 2, if you want — centre, north and Alentejo. The honourable Member has heard these same authorships, those same regional councils, those same CCDRs say that this is actually happening. The Government has not only reprogramming this dehydration, as it is also diverting funds from these regions to others, the common practice, payments for social action at school, payments for employment and integration, whose funds, rather than being under the heading of the State budget, are being used from the Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u50	So it's an achievement, it's an ambush what you guys are doing. I would say even more: why is this reprogramming not done within the regions themselves, in the drawers of the regions themselves? The autarchs asked him that. For example, regarding the urban cycle of water, health, education, mobility... Besides, regarding health, Mr. Deputie is one of the people who promised the new hospital of Madeira, he said it would be done and it is not done. But as far as mobility is concerned, you can ask Mr. Pedro Coimbra of Coimbra, who is sitting next to you, what happens because one of the proposals for reprogramming of this fund, even before it is completed, concerns funds for mobility, in this case metro port, metro Lisbon and metro of Mondego. I don't know if we're going to have buses flying or airplanes walking on the roads, because Mr. President of the Coimbra Municipal Chamber and President of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP) says that the Mondego subway goes wherever it goes, but then says that in 2021 it will have a new airport. I don't know how these things are paid! Therefore, I say it is necessary to understand whether what we already know today, from the deviation of funds to mobility, essentially to the metro of Porto, to the metro of Lisbon and to the metro of Mondego, without knowing whether it is for the bus or whether it is for the plane, configures or not, in practice, the diversion of funds from the interior to the coast. Otherwise, I have to ask you: where are the links of revalidation and improvement of industrial areas? There have been seven promises made by the government and paid by the funds and only one is working. Now that I am talking about the regional issue, I wonder: what about the famous IP3 or the 2020 Railway which has only 15% implementation? And give-CL- to him n examples of projects that should be launched, in work, in 2017 and still today do not go away from the paper. Therefore, Mr President, you have to say what is true, whether it is speech or practice. I'd like to hear it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u51	To reply, Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I thank the honourable Members. Mr Bruno Coimbra and Mr Hélder Amaral on the issues they have raised. I will answer together because, in some way, they address the same issue that is persistently repeated, even though you know it is not true. In fact, I am sure that any of the Members who have asked questions well knows that the thematic programmes, such as the Human Capital, Social Inclusion and COMPETE programmes, are intended exclusively to be applied in convergence regions, in cohesion regions. Therefore, any change between programmes, whether regional or regional, does not cause any deviation from the cohesion regions, and that is what I know you know and it is regrettable that in this debate they are not rigorous and they are not telling the truth about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u54	There is no diversion of money from cohesion regions; there is no deviation from funds from the regions of the interior. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What you are doing is actually inventing a thesis and a fallacy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u55	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u56	You know what I'm saying. Not at all, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Hélder Amaral and Mr Bruno Coimbra, I would like to recall what the people say: « what is born wrong is hardly right». And in fact, what the Socialist Party is trying to do with this reprogramming is to straighten out what you were unable to negotiate in 2013 in the partnership agreement with the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u57	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u58	Mr Hélder Amaral, I would like to tell you very clearly because we were both at the same meeting, that I did not hear any president of the regional council of the CCDR, nor any member of the National Association of Municipalities say that he disagreed with this reprogramming, nor did I hear any of them say so. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u59	By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, I will say what I heard clearly to the President of the National Association of Municipalities : « The PT 2020 has started very late. He was engrossed in an authentic universe of activities that had nothing to do with the authorities, was conceived too bureaucratically and made his execution abrupt».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u60	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u61	This is not a criticism of the Socialist Party, this is a criticism of the PSD and the CDS that negotiated this plan and that they were not able to put to work properly in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, a final note to clarify what you also insist on the issues of investment in the Port and Lisbon metro and on the Cascais Line. First of all, I want to say that it is very different to invest 50 million in the Cascais Line or €78 000, which was what you invested when you were in the government. Secondly, I would like to tell you that what is at stake in terms of transfers is to transfer measures that were part of energy efficiency, as you know, for which the only thing the Government has done was to find new financing measures that you should applaud, agree and be with this government, because what we did was, on the one hand, to ensure that the European Investment Bank invests in energy efficiency and, on the other hand, that private companies, EDP and Endesa pay smart counters. That is how it was possible to guarantee the financial means to finance the Port metro, the Lisbon metro and the Cascais line, which you did not include in the programme but is obviously quite needed. This does not mean diverting funds from cohesion regions, because this is supported by the POEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use) and, as you also know, the PO SEUR has a national extension. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u62	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this debate on the reprogramming of PT 2020, there are two previous notes that need to be brought here. On the one hand, as regards the reduction of funds and amounts allocated or targeted to programmes for local administration, it is recognised that, in fact, local administration or municipalities have played a leading role not only in the use of Community funds but in their use for local development and the quality of life of populations. The second aspect is, in fact, the fact that reality has also been demonstrated, with the decisions that have been taken erroneously with regard to non-investment in infrastructure and equipment, when they are not considered as priorities, from the point of view of investment. Today, this reality demonstrates that there are various investment needs. The National Association of Municipalities still this week told us about the issues and priorities with regard to health equipment and schools, and this is something that is also important for us. in our view, any intervention at the level of the Community funds must take a position that gives priority to the correction of inequalities and asymmetries. Of course, the issues of economic, social and territorial cohesion, for us, are of enormous importance, as we also believe that, in the allocation of financial resources, the State, in its various components, including local administration, should be the main recipient of the funds. within the framework of this reprogramming, we consider that there are a set of priorities that need to be established: infrastructures; investment, in particular in school equipment; ensuring funding for the urban water cycle, withdrawing that conditionalism from forcing municipalities to submit applications aggregately. Moreover, I recall that the Assembly of the Republic has already approved an initiative, a recommendation to the Government, proposed by the CFP, where it expresses exactly that, i.e. not only the strengthening of investment but also the expansion of the type of operations with the possibility of investment, the removal of all types of conditionalisms which are currently preventing municipalities from submitting applications, in particular on the low network, the need to transform reimbursable support into non-refundable support, particularly at the level of water and energy efficiency, and the strengthening of investments, in particular in the PARU ( Urban Rehabilitation Action Plan ), which are aimed at smaller municipalities. If there is a recognition here that local power has played a prominent role in this area, it is essential that this is reflected in this reprogramming of PT 2020. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u64	Mrs Paula Santos, two Mrs are registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. Does the honourable Member answer separately or together?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u65	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u66	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Ricardo Bexiga of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, first of all, I would like to note the following: for us, in this reprogramming process, priorities remain the same, i.e., they continue to be the defence of territorial cohesion, the protection of economic competitiveness and the creation of employment. And, in terms of guiding principles of this process, there are two fundamental principles: the principle of solidarity and cohesion, not only from the point of view of the territories but also, above all, from the needs of the people living in those territories. Therefore, this reprogramming for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group should continue to be a fundamental instrument in ensuring and promoting convergence of territories and also resolving people's problems. But the territorial differences and those that are the inequalities that unfortunately still remain in the country, as regards the living conditions of people, because they live in one or another territory, do not occur only in the territories of the interior and the coast, but also in the metropolitan areas we feel that there are, in fact, these inequalities that we must quickly overcome. There are territories in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon where the most distant municipalities of the urban nucleus have difficulties in terms of accessibility, they have difficulties in terms of employment, they have difficulties in terms of affirming themselves also with regard to their resources, in order to contribute to the competitiveness of these territories themselves. In view of this reality, what the honourable Member would like to ask was whether, in view of the position taken here by the PSD, in its draft resolution, the CFP is either in favour of the idea presented by the Government, in order to take advantage of the balance sheet and the evaluation that has been made on the opportunity to apply some funds that have been planned by the PSD/CDS Government, in particular to strengthen the funds for improving the Lisbon and Porto metro networks and also for improving the rail urban transport networks, which are fundamental channels to ensure the mobility of people and thus also to ensure the competitiveness of businesses and territories. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u68	Also to ask for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Fatima Ramos of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, starting by complimenting you, I will say the following: the fires of last summer were the clear demonstration that our regional development policy has not been correct. The interior lives a sleep that walks to death, if nothing is done. The Metropolitan Area of Lisbon is moving, purchasing power in Lisbon grows, purchasing power in the interior, center and north, decreases. Community funds should contribute to cohesion, but unfortunately that is not what is happening. It is not enough to say that we want to decentralise, it is not enough to say that we want to combat asymmetries and then to lay the foundations for a new PNPOT — National Territorial Policy Programme — based on an organization based only in two large metropolitan areas, rather than on a multi-city policy. What do you want, after all, with the reprogramming of the Community funds? — we ask the Government. Portugal led the entry into operation of Portugal 2020 among all Member States. This government delayed its implementation, did not want to know about the evaluation and harmed the public interest. You are now in a hurry to want to distribute nearly EUR 3000 million. for our part, we understand that it is not only enough to distribute and much less distributed to give to the metropolitan area of Lisbon, to invest in the metro of Lisbon and on the line of Cascais. This is unfair! Mr Carlos Pereira, Member of the Socialist Party, said that this was not to take money away from the convergence regions, but it was to withdraw money from the convergence regions. Convergence regions need investments in the urban water cycle, mobility and energy. I therefore ask Mrs Paula Santos' Member of the Communist Party if she disagrees with the PSD project, since what we want is that money is invested to overcome the problems of interiority, to help the poorest regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u71	Nothing moves us against the richest regions and investment in the richest regions, but we cannot agree that they are spent in Lisbon at 1, 7 km from the metro network, EUR 220 million. It's too much money! This work must be done with national funds, because this money serves cohesion. We therefore dare the Communist Party to stand by our side and defend territorial cohesion. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u72	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the questions that have been put to me. In a very synthetic way, investments in the Lisbon and Port metro and in the enhancement of public transport, and we can talk about several things here, are issues that the CFP has always brought here. But the question that arises is that it is not passing money from one side to the other that will solve the problem, the resolution of the problem goes by strengthening public investment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u74	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u75	... precisely to ensure territorial cohesion throughout the territory of our country. On the development of the interior and combat of asymmetries, I believe that the PSD does not have much to say, since it has extinguished frequencies,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u76	...he closed services, courts, privatized the CTT... Well, I think we're talking about this. [[PCP applause.]] But, Mrs Fatima Ramos, on the part of the CFP, we have indeed intervened in the perspective of combating asymmetries and we believe that there are needs not only from the development point of view but also from an administrative organization of the State that actually creates the administrative regions. Finally, Madam Member, I would also like to say the following: public investment is important, but it is important a public investment that enables the development of the country and not that increases the profits of the economic groups because public resources are channelled to these same economic groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u77	For an intervention, you now have the floor by the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a debate of the greatest importance and is already beginning with an important political fact. It is enough to read the PSD draft resolution and for the first time we have an apology from the PSD, as far as Community funds are concerned that they have often been misused, often have not taken into account social or economic benefits for the country and often have served to spend much and badly. Indeed, this is true and, indeed, the PSD has a lot of responsibility in the way in which Community funds were so often misused, wasted by a country that needed them, and that only a few pockets have been stopped.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u79	All right! Well remembered! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u80	Good self-criticism from PSD! There is a good basis for us to begin this debate. The following criticism was raised in this debate is a criticism that we follow, because often Community funds are used for current expenditure, to replace what should be done directly by the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u81	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u82	This is true for the current Community framework as it was true for the previous ones. We look at essential goals in the development of the country, such as educational and training goals, and we see that a considerable part of vocational training has been paid by Community funds for decades. And we see that this has costs for the country, because, on the one hand, the State budget has never strategically affixed in vocational training, on the other hand, there is no long-term vision of this process and, finally, because, without a long-term vision, it is always in the short term that everything is managed, including professional links, the precariousness that this represents for trainers and for the projects concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u84	What is at stake now with this reprogramming? What we have seen so many times in the past, unfortunately, often negatively. Programmes and, above all, reprogramming over time have benefited, in particular, investment in companies, without social criteria, without criteria for assessing the quality of employment, without criteria for valuing the impact of this investment in the country, for example in reducing imports, improving energy efficiency and reducing the country's debt, and without criteria for an economic assessment of such investments. In view of this contribution which should exist from the Community funds, by its assessment, by ensuring that investments in companies are properly thought, weighted and executed, to each reprogramming are only used to extend limits and to ensure that companies that are supported are, in practice, an attempt to support the country's productive capacity — this is the political idea behind — but with a very negative consequence, that is, in fact, to serve some economic groups to maximize what they receive from Community funds, without a decent strategic vision for the country. This is the main problem that is not solved in this reprogramming, but for which the PSD also does not propose any resolution. This is something we accuse of both this government and the previous governments. There needs to be an evaluation of support and companies. It is more than 20 % of the Community funds! More than 20%! And so when we talk about the reallocation of funds within the entire Community budget, it should in fact be one of the main aspects to be assessed. There is a second question on the table: does this reprogramming serve or not serve to increase the country’s asymmetries? Is it useful, in secret, to withdraw money from the interior and bring it to the large urban centres and thus further delay the development of those regions which should be benefited by the Community funds, the convergence regions? from our point of view, this is a temptation in which you cannot fall. Replying to the question that the PS has asked just now, about whether we are against the investment in the metro in Lisbon, in the metro in Porto, if we are against the investment in the line of Cascais, we say no! But this cannot, should not, we do not accept that it is done at the cost of reducing investment in convergence zones.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u86	However, we believe that the appropriation provided for in the reprogramming of the funds made by the Government is far from what is necessary for each of these investments. That's so cool! So what's missing here? What is the serious problem of this process? It is what at the time of the PSD government / CDS-PP, ordered by the troika, and also with the current government, was taken to zero, to the total void, which is the public investment. We then return to the initial problem of the Community funds so often to be used to replace what should be public investment, the State budget, the country's strategic choice, validated by the Assembly of the Republic. Not so, what we are discussing again is how a country turned to deficits, how a country subject to the rules of European treaties, subject to the rules of Brussels, has or does not have the ability to invest in its infrastructure, in the ability to improve the lives of its people. in this context, this is the main problem of reprogramming, trying to replace public investment. But the answer is obvious to us: public investment has the possibility to exist, there is budgetary margin for this, there is a strike created by economic growth, so, once and for all, we will allow economic growth to benefit from investment in the country and it is no longer an element for, always using the narrative of the deficit, to be once again called into question public investment. from the Left Block, the essential point in this debate is the following: in fact we want a well thought-out reprogramming that is not done at the expense of more asymmetries in the country and that is not only and only to replace a lack of public investment, which, rather than being used to benefit people, is used for the Brussels targets. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u87	Mr António Costa Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: EUR 185 million for the extension of the Lisbon metro. EUR 185 million! More concrete for the bow of the ship which is Portugal, in this case applied in the Lisbon area. More transport to the ship's bow! More people to the ship's bow! More cars for the ship's bow! One day, the bow won't hold and the country won't hold! Is this the model that the Socialist Party is bringing us? Oh, my God! The PSD ensures that it will not allow the Government to divert Community funds from the regions of the interior. Unless, for the Socialist Party, the metro of Lisbon, as it is done under the ground, is interior! But that's not what we're talking about. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD is concerned with a clear intention of the Government to reprogram European funds for projects in large urban centres. That's a red line we don't accept! It is a red line that we will not let the government go beyond, i.e. using money from the interior, from low-density regions, from the poorest regions, for large projects on the coast, for large urban projects. Almeida Henriques said: 'I am thinking about presenting a complaint in Brussels' on this subject. Autarchs of the North rank the Government of Robin Hood on the contrary. In fact, contrary to what was said by the Socialist Party, there were 83 city councils in the North — 83! — they voted unanimously against the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u89	Against!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u90	These authors voted against the proposed reprogramming made by your Government! at the end of the third meeting of the North Region Intermunicipal Concertation Platform, the latter warned the executive led by António Costa to the fact that the North would not be passive about the possibility of diverting funds from the region for other purposes. The Minister of Planning and Infrastructure has already said that it will be EUR 185 million for the Lisbon metro. And not just! We are not against the enlargement of the Lisbon metro, which does not make sense that there are money to be channeled to the strongest regions, to the richest regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u91	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u92	Again, we are devaluing convergence, low density and the interior territories. The concern of municipalities is not new. the Congress of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities was also concerned with this reprogramming. Where is reprogramming actually? The authorities criticise the Executive's option of transferring funds from the ERDF ( European Regional Development Fund ) to the European Social Fund. An author of the Socialist Party, Eduardo Vítor Rodrigues — they know, is an author of Gaia — argued that «the idea is that the money that is being reprogrammed remains in the region rather than being used to finance the State budget». As you can see, this is not just a PSD concern, it is a strong concern for all the country's political quadrants. What is the position of the different parliamentary groups on this subject after all? That's what we want to know. We are not faced with mere technical reprogramming, as they want us to believe, but with strategic reprogramming. With the allocation of EUR 2, EUR 8 billion, it is not a mere technical reprogramming. Don't you agree with that? With stirs in all operational, thematic and regional programmes, we are facing a real strategic reprogramming, not a technical reprogramming! If you are taking money into technical reprogramming, how will strategic reprogramming remain? Why is it that no one explains to us why a performance assessment on the funds has been dispensed?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u93	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u94	Run away from her like the devil on the cross! Show us the performance results. Show us the results indicators! What is going on is, in fact, a great irresponsibility. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do not let the PSD be isolated in defending low-density territories and the most fragile regions! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u95	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Coimbra.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will certainly all agree that Portugal 2020 is an absolutely essential and structural financial instrument in promoting public policies to improve the quality of life of Portuguese and the cohesion of the territory. Portugal 2020's programming has been carried out in an adverse context for the country, given the difficult financial, economic and social situation we have been going through. We also know that the start of the programme, which coincided with the PSD Government and the CDS-PP, has left much to be desired, with significant delays in the objective submission of regulations, with delays in the opening of applications and therefore with delays in their implementation. This situation has deserved special attention by the Government of the Socialist Party and significant effort in the reversal of the situation. On the other hand, it is recognized by the most diverse national and international entities, that the macroeconomic context of the country has greatly improved, and in a very visible way, in recent years, happily. It is therefore important to reprogram the terms of the initial programming of the European funds so that they can help the country overcome its constraints. This government clearly took on the objectives of this reprogramming, with a broad and completely different attitude from that used by previous governments. The Government will not change any appropriations for the OPs ( Operational Programmes ), whether they are thematic or regional, or change the allocation for the Portugal 2020 Fund. [[PSD protests.]] The reprogramming of Portugal 2020 aims to ensure greater alignment with the national reform programme, through incentives for business investment, a commitment to the qualification of Portuguese, support for mobility and investment in basic equipment and infrastructures, which are so important and essential to our populations. Let us be very clear, for these reasons there is no deviation of funds from the cohesion regions to the most developed regions. [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] Mr António Costa Silva, all you can say about this is false and it is to make demagogy with too important things. There is no money transfer to the most developed regions. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Therefore, in view of the commitments made in the European Commission and the generally positive assessment of the work done in the country which has been done by the Commissioners responsible for this matter, I would like to challenge it, Mr President, which proves that there is indeed a transfer of money from the cohesion regions to the developed regions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u97	If you are unable to prove that the PSD and CDS have the courage to support this reprogramming, because it is necessary for the country. You base your argument on the wrong assumptions, as have already been fully denied by the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u98	To reply, Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a repeated lie is often not always a truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u100	That part is true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u101	This issue of starting up funds, the logic of programming is not always a truth. [[PS protests.]] But I will respond directly to what Mr Bruno Coimbra,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u102	Pedro Coimbra!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u103	I am sorry, I answer directly to the question that Mr Coimbra put to us. In fact, it was Mr Coimbra who was very good. Indeed, on the question of funds, there is a headway transfer, there is a headway!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u104	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u105	I give a concrete example: under the PO SEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use ) programme, when we are allocating funds from the Lisbon metro, removing them from other investment priorities, which could lead to convergence, we are diverting funds to convergence. These funds could, for example, be applied in the urban water cycle, in inland transport, and are not. This is therefore a diversion that you are making! As is the case in the Regional Operational Programmes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u106	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Why has no one yet spoken of the common agricultural policy (CAP)? Why would it be? When we talk about the CAP and its various components, dimensions and pillars, it will always be necessary to know what its impact on national agricultural policy has been. If it is necessary to re-programme, it is necessary to take what has failed and correct it, until the last reform of the CAP has failed again: it has failed in the stabilization of markets, and this is the example of the serious crises of milk and pigs; it has failed in improving the income of small and medium-sized farmers; it has failed in the objective of a more friendly agricultural policy of the environment — the 'greening' has only brought bureaucracy and environmental gains are null, since it is increasingly supporting the intensification of production; it has failed in awarding aid only to those who produce it — the active farmer is a farce; it has failed in improving the distribution of aid — 20% of farmers receive 80% of all direct aid; it has failed in simplification — the system is in such a complex way that it is more a way to exclude small and medium-sized farmers. For the PCP, Mr. Members, the appreciation of family agriculture and small and medium-sized farms is a national imperative, because they are the ones that, in fact, produce quality food sustainably, which preserves the environment and which gives life to our interior lands. It is this type of agriculture that must be supported and developed. The question, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is to know whether PS, PSD and CDS are thinking about this reprogramming, which is necessary, because some and others always had the opportunity to do and did not. There is, in fact, a lot of work to be done. For the CFP, it is essential to reintroduce market control measures that promote production in all countries and regions. The distribution of value along the row must be reversed. The "I want, I can and I command" of the large distribution must end. Aid must be modelled, ceilinged and attributed to whom it produces. It is not acceptable that aid may be paid to a farmer without producing 1 g of food. But this will only be possible with a break with the current right-wing policy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u108	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD undoubtedly has the merit of convening us for reflection and discussion on something that always happens in all the multiannual financial frameworks of Community funds, which is to arrive at a time, usually in the middle of the programme implementation horizons, and to review or reprogram some of the projects that are either not being implemented or have ceased to have a plausible justification for being included in that precise Community framework. from this point of view, it is a process that happens in any programme for the application of Community funds and what is important at this time is to discuss the criteria that can and should redirect such programming. For us, there are three essential principles that lead and guide this reprogramming. The first is to defend and deepen the mechanisms of social and territorial cohesion, which must continue to be corrected, because there are several regions in the country that are still covered by the classification of convergence regions. The second is to maintain and, if possible, strengthen the funds that go to these regions, accelerating their convergence process. The third is to correct any errors that may have been noted under the initial programme of implementation of the Community funds and to redirect the funds to other projects which are perhaps more justifiable and urgent. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS know perfectly well that the Left Block has since the beginning of this legislation to draw attention to the fact that the Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan 3 + ( PETI 3 + ) of the previous Government has contained a series of serious errors, insofar as it was secondary and ignored projects to support human mobility and focused all investment projects on the mobility of goods in projects which, being relevant, in the long term it was not so important to be done immediately within the framework of the Community framework Portugal 2020. This is the expression of Portugal 2020, the Railway 2020 programme, which includes errors identified in PETI 3 + and which now needs to be corrected. The European Commission itself has already called attention to the fact that there is a new railway line, Aveiro-Mangualde, which is one of the main investment projects of the Railway 2020 programme and which has a financial envelope of EUR 700 million, but which is not justified and has been plunged. If the objective is to reprogram the funds, then it will be taken into account in these EUR 700 million that would be for a line which is not possible to be approved within the European Commission and that this value will be reassessed to other projects also included in the Central Region, therefore in a region of convergence of Community funds, and which are as or more relevant for completion as soon as possible. I wanted to launch for discussion and reflection of the Government and the Socialist Party the idea of redeploying this money to three projects in the Centre region which are equally important for public rail passenger transport. We are talking about completing the project of full requalification and rehabilitation of the West Line. Like the ladies. Members and Members of Parliament know, the government has wrongly set off to re-qualify this Line to leave it alone to the Queen's Horses. We believe that the strike resulting from the EUR 700 million that will not be invested can and should be re-initiated for completion of its rehabilitation. We're also talking about the Mondego subway. The world's light rail system is a political commitment of all parties that have been in government for more than two decades that can and should be met, because there is financial capacity to implement Community funds, cohesion funds. Some EUR 200 million is missing to complete a process that has already begun, in which around EUR 150 million has already been spent on urban rehabilitation operations and which can and should be completed, instead of betting on the subway, which is a project that is not yet secure and that, above all, will not have the profitability and the response to a mobility such as the subway allows.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u110	Mr President, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u111	Finally, I refer to the Vouga Line, a passenger transport project that, in that region, is very necessary to sew internal mobility at regional level and to promote re-qualified rail mobility, which effectively serves populations within the Aveiro district and part of the Coimbra district and allows more sustainable and integrated mobility from a regional point of view. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u112	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat that, in fact, this reprogramming makes every sense. If there was no other, the simple reason for this picture was designed at a time of crisis and that we are today, as they said, and well, in a completely different scenario from those macroeconomic scenarios of development of the Portuguese economy makes sense to this reprogramming. However, the important thing is to discuss how this reprogramming is done and with what objectives. In fact, we have more doubts, first of all, about the necessary consensus that these matters have to have. I wanted to keep saying that nothing moves the CDS against Lisbon or the Port, because the country has to be seen as a whole. But we cannot ignore that 60 % of GDP (gross domestic product) — and if we make a projection, even if it is in the short term, these data will get worse — are in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. Therefore, if we do not find solutions, if we do not find measures that can defeat this effect, we are not providing a good service to the country. That is why I think that this reprogramming could be an opportunity, particularly in the area of the economy, with a stake in industry 4.0, in vocational training and in what everyone has said, the roads, criticising the previous government, although there had been reasons why I should not bet on more roads, since there had been an exaggeration in this sector of the previous government. But still, this government has managed to write down money for the industrial areas, but then it does not implement them — and they are numerous. The same applies to accessibility. Mr. Heitor Sousa spoke on the railroad. In fact, Mr. Deputies, they should be 739 km full of rail and are only 79 km. It says we can allocate funds from the Aveiro-Salamanca line to others also necessary, such as the West Line, the Vouga Line. But, Mr President, it is also promised, with funds already allocated, the Mangualde-Villar Formoso, which is part of this line.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u114	That's the Beira Alta line!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u115	You want to do what? Would you like to cut it, preventing the interior, which needs investment in mobility, to establish the link to its main market, which is Spain? We have to make a deal. Mr Coimbra, when we take up a national programme, such as the Environment Fund, and allocate their funds to the metres of Lisbon, Porto and Mondego, we are obviously withdrawing funds inside or to areas of convergence. Should we be discussing whether or not we should correct the imbalances in the UPR ( Urban Regeneration Action Plans ) and PEDU ( Urban Strategic Development Plans )? Yes! Should we or should we not reinforce funds for the urban water cycle? Yes! Should we, or should we not, strengthen funds for the areas of education and health in some regions that have obvious problems? Yes! I'm going to tell you, for example, about Alentejo, which has problems in the urban water cycle, accessibility, health, etc. These regional operational programmes should be strengthened. Therefore, I would like to say again that the main objective of reprogramming should be to look very closely at the implementation of these regional operational programmes in order to strengthen them so that there is an investment attraction in convergence regions, as well as vocational training capacity, which is, up to the project that the government has presented of the 2030 funds, the great reform. What the Government proposes is vocational training and qualification. So why not do it now and start reprogramming? That's why I'm saying, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that there is a broad consensus. There are indeed authorities who threaten even to act against the government for lack of compliance with their promises, others who complain about lack of dialogue and convergence in regional priorities, and there are money coming out of the Community funds and who should leave the State budget. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we could be discussing and seeing who is most responsible for the failure to properly implement the funds, but our position is another: let us make this opportunity an important and useful reprogramming for the country. If that's the way, you can count on the CDS and our support. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u116	Mrs. Members, since it will be up to the Democratic Social Party to close the debate, I ask the PS and the PCP, who still have time, if they intend to intervene. The Greens have already informed the Bureau that they do not intend to use their time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u117	Mr. President, I am in charge of intervening.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u118	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are almost at the end of the debate, but we all realize that we are facing an attempt at political use, which we have to report, a PSD fallacy with this draft resolution. We understand that, everyone, in what I am going to say: we do not allow the diversion of funds from the interior to the coast, from cohesion areas to the other regions, and we all agree on this. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we don't admit tricks that lead to thinking anything but this. We know that the reprogramming of European funds is a necessity which stems from the objective of making the best possible use of the European funds that have been won for Portugal to move forward in areas crucial to its development. And we all agree that the structural funds are fundamental for Portugal to become a more developed and more cohesive country. It is true that we are not satisfied, we want more, but this ambition is of course a healthy engine that always makes us move forward. We want more social and territorial cohesion, more fight against asymmetries, more education, more health, more infrastructure, we want a better country, and that is why, in the Socialist Party, in the beatings here, daily. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] As we all know, the transition between Community frameworks is not always easy and, I must say, two years ago, there were some aspects that were zero, which made it difficult to start the programme. That is also why it is not possible to redesign the PT 2020 now. It's not possible, ladies. PSD Members! at this time, we have some money that we can adjust, but we cannot redesign a whole programme. The priority of this Government was to accelerate the implementation of Portugal 2020. currently, according to the data, Portugal is first of all about the rate of implementation of structural funds, leading the level of implementation in the European Union, which is, and must be, a satisfaction for all, and even aims at reaching at the end of 2018 the EUR 2000 million of funds placed in companies. We must therefore value the fact that we have a programme, Portugal 2020, at cruise speed. We all know that investment is essential for the dynamisation of the economy and job creation. We know that we have reached the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, 7, 8 %, and it has to continue to decline ; we have achieved employment growth as we have not seen before, 2, 7 %. On the other hand, we must also remember that there were conditions that made us walk back and that prevented us from moving forward, particularly with regard to schools and roads, when, for example, they said that we had more roads. [[Well remembered!]] [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u120	Therefore, the PSD cannot want to confuse the Portuguese. We must move forward in the fight against asymmetries, and this is fundamental to us, and the government has already shown that it is doing so, to take on this commitment. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to strengthen the allocation of territorial investment, we need to strengthen the allocation in science, we need to strengthen the funding in the importance of transferring knowledge from universities and policies to businesses. it is extremely important, for example, the Collaborative Laboratory, launched in Proença-a-Nova by Prime Minister António Costa and related to the forest. We do not accept any deviations from the territories of cohesion and, if it is clear, that will not happen. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe it is desirable to have an agreement, and we hope that there will be a consensus on this matter, because the National Association of Municipalities has already said, in this House, that it wants to build an agreement and that it has some positions that it is negotiating with the Government. There are, of course, areas that have to be adjusted; there are areas in which there must be a reinforcement, such as science, retraining, expansion and construction of new industrial areas, innovation, industry 4.0, as Mr Deputies said, in support of the development of the interior and investment in research and other laboratory equipment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u121	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u122	I now conclude by saying that we must continue our commitment to support territorial investment, with an investment that can boost the development of the regions and increase their social and territorial cohesion, because that is the only way we will have a better and more balanced country. We also believe that the future of the new Community support framework, Portugal 2030, must be built in this consensus, with a competitiveness that also brings greater cohesion, with a view to a more balanced country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u123	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u124	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, at the end of these hours of debate, it is worth explaining this question: if the central theme of this debate was to reject the transfer of funds from the Community funds to withdraw to the most disadvantaged regions to allocate to the richest regions, if that was the question that you wanted to deal with, then this could be resolved through a timeless schedule or up to 2 minutes to each party to intervene. This is because there is no discussion, it is necessary to strengthen and not reduce investment in convergence regions. But we add: investment across the country needs to be strengthened — in convergence regions and in non-convergence regions. [[PSD protests.]] And one cannot fail to observe that it is truly regrettable that the approach which has been made here by several Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to want to place regions of the country, populations of the country, against each other! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u125	In such a way that we've even had Mrs here. Members who, after what they had already said, felt the need to say: "We have nothing against this district! "We have nothing against that region! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Of course, what they have said here is a deep concern about the integrated, harmonious and sustainable development of the entire national territory, and that is what we want to put here. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] On the other hand, with regard to this Community framework, we say very clearly: 'Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that is enough! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u126	It is necessary to correct problems, asymmetries, to move forward in key areas, which, if necessary, this Community framework, this partnership agreement, these programmes and their regulations have dealt in a disastrous way with negotiations between the former PSD/CDS Government and the European Union. And one of the lines of action that marked this framework was the submission of national interest in several measures, not only before the great powers of the European Union but also before the interest and economic power of the major economic and financial groups. When a substantial part of the Community funds is delivered to the economic groups and to the private management of those seeking profits to the detriment of the balance and harmony of the national territory, we are clearly harming the interior, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the result of the policies that have been made and implemented by this partnership agreement and by this Community framework. The Portuguese Communist Party presented, and approved, a motion for a resolution in the Assembly of the Republic, the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 42 / 2018, where it recommends that a programme for the valuation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises be considered in the reprogramming of the Community framework Portugal 2020 and that, in effect, a priority be given to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises which was clearly not given when negotiating this Community framework. We would like to stress that this measure that we have proposed and that has been adopted as Parliament's recommendation is effectively implemented in this reprogramming we have before us so that they are not once again the same as the usual ones, the large economic groups, to benefit from the negotiations with Brussels. Finally, Mr President, I am referring to something that has to do with the supposed inevitability. Is it so indisputable that this inevitability is that the reprogramming of this Community framework cannot even go beyond the re-feasing of funds, like who changes coins from drawer to drawers? Oh, my God! Is it even a taboo of this question of the necessary strengthening of investment and support through the Community funds put in the service of development, the fight against territorial asymmetries, the defence of territorial cohesion and the development of the interior and populations throughout the country that they can, must and deserve a policy of development and public investment, which is slow to go forward, but for which the CFP will continue to fight, work and intervene, so that it can be possible once and for all? [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u127	To close the debate, Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u128	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, let us be clear, the PSD brought this debate to this House for a very simple reason: the Government ( the Government of the Socialist Party, the PCP and the Left Block ) presented to the coordinating committees, to the managers of the operational programmes, a set of guidelines in which it dictated (I repeat, I said, I did not negotiate) exactly what the PSD reported and what the whole country has denounced — 83 authors from the North region, as it has already been remembered, and I believe that many of them are from the Socialist Party. Therefore, if there is any fallacy, it is the state of denial that the Socialist Party's bench wants to give to this debate. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is still very curious and even ironic that the same government that wants to prepare an ambitious decentralization plan for the country, and to put the chairmen of the coordinating committees to send them to the Community funds and to elect them, would like to continue to televise, from the capital, the operational and strategic management of the Community funds. It is once again the conversation of the Socialist Party that in acts there is no evidence. In fact, this centralism and this illuminism, which in the past marked the governance of the Socialist Party as regards Community funds, are not new. We remember very well the School Park and the Polis Program, which were made in exactly the same way: from the capital they ruled, implemented, decided, executed, on the backs of the Country and the autarchs. That is the same illusion that this government wants to bring back to the country. Do you also remember the EUR 20 million offered to the Metropolitan Area of Porto, without negotiation, without any other kind of consultation with the other Regional Council? They certainly remember this situation, and here we are faced with a practice and guidance on the same line. The plot is known: the Socialist Party begins by launching for public opinion a set of ads and then seeks to find support and solutions, on one side and on the other. But we know very well what is behind this reprogramming. What is in origin is very simple, it is to cover a hole that exists in the Operational Human Capital Program ( POCH), made with the diversion of funds to pay current expenses, both in social security and in education, and to pay a promise, in Lisbon and Porto, for the metropolitan. We are not against reprogramming, it has already been said. But instead of looking for money, the government should ask, in a very simple way, what was the best way to apply the funds available, with transparency, with objective criteria, respecting European rules and territorial cohesion. If so, the Government would not attempt to divert funds from regional programmes to pay current expenditure from other ministries. The Government would not commit a real assault on the sustainability programme to pay for transport works in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon. On what basis and on what criteria have these priorities been defined? What other alternatives have been evaluated? Why are these investments in the transports of Porto and Lisbon more important and fairer than investments in mobility in cities such as Braganza, Vila Real, Viana do Castelo, Aveiro, Guarda, Viseu, Coimbra, Leiria, Santarém, Setúbal, Évora, Portalegre, Beja or Faro? Why is it more important to invest in port and Lisbon, from the point of view of urban sustainability and decarbonisation than to invest in mobility in all other district capitals in the rest of the country? It is this cohesion, this justice and this transparency that we are talking about. The government did not want to answer these questions. If the Government wanted to answer these questions today, it would have had an opportunity to be here, in this debate, as it has been at other times, to respond to the country and the Members on their real intentions and why he wants to do this reprogramming. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u129	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u130	Will there be more eloquent proof than the centralism that takes away the future of the country? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has today drawn a red line with regard to the reprogramming of Community funds: preventing the diversion of funds to other programmes and preventing the diversion of funds from thematic programmes, without criteria, without transparency and without evaluation of alternatives. It is in your hands to support this decision, to prevent this red line and to ensure transparency and territorial cohesion. It's the ladies and gentlemen. Members able to take off the party shirts and put the interests of the whole country above the tactics of the government and your political circumstances? There's a lot of people out there waiting for your answers with impatience. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u131	With this intervention, we reached the end of the discussion of draft resolution No 1502 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PSD ). Although it is not yet noon, we shall now begin the voting period. Before that, however, Mr Duarte Pacheco will read the dossier, which has, in the meantime, entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u132	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions 1513 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the Stability and Budget Implementation Programme comply with the deficit limits set out in the approval of the State budget for 2018 and that the registered budget breaks ( BE) are returned to the company ( BE ), 1514 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by asserting the sovereign law of Portugal to decide about its future and by responding to the problems of the country ( PCP ), 1515 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Florence ( Italy ) ( President of the HR ), 1516 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government transfer the infrastructure attached to the Lighthouse of São Jorge to the heritage of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PAN ) and 1517 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Reform Programme, adopt a set of measures to place Portugal on a sustained path of economic growth and employment ( CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u133	Let us, then, initiate the vote on the Rules of Procedure, beginning with the verification of the quorum, using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 199 presences, to which 6 are added, signalled to the Bureau, of the Members. Deputies Amadeu Soares Alberaria e Margarida Balsairo Lopes, of PSD, Pedro Coimbra, of PS, José Manuel Pureza, of BE, Diana Ferreira, of the PCP, and André Silva, of the PAN, performing 205 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. We begin the votes with vote No 525 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greetings to the Portuguese Selection of Rugby Sub-20, submitted by the PSD and subscribed by PS Members and by a Member of the CDS-PP, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u134	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « After the second place reached by the Portuguese selection of Rugby Sub-20 at the World Rugby U20 Trophy, played in Uruguay, Portugal wins for the second time consecutively, the Rugby U20 European Championship. The victory in front of Spain's selection highlighted the character of the « Lobitos» and its technical team, as well as the noble values transmitted by this modality: comradeship, spirit of sacrifice and altruism. The revalidation of the title of European champion of the modality conveys a feeling of national pride, but also of demonstration to the country of its quality, in particular that of amateur national sport so often undervalued. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its joy and welcomes this sport success, thus associating itself with the feeling of national recognition for this benefit, welcoming the National Selection of Sub-20 by Rugby present in this European championship, trainers, technical team and the Portuguese Federation of Rugby for the excellent demonstration of its sporting value and the way they dignified Portugal and prided the Portuguese."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u135	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 525/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is vote No 526 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemning the bombing of the United Kingdom and France against the Syrian Arab Republic, submitted by the CFP, which will be read by Secretary Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u136	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on the night of 13 to 14 April, the United States of America, the United Kingdom and France bombed the Syrian Arab Republic. This unacceptable act of aggression, which constitutes a flagrant violation and confronts the Charter of the United Nations and international law, was carried out under the pretext of an alleged and unproven use of chemical weapons, the responsibility of which Syria rejects. It assumes particular meaning that this attack was carried out when international experts arrived in Syria, at the invitation of the Syrian Government, to investigate the alleged use of chemical weapons in Duma. It is recalled that the United States of America, the United Kingdom and France were responsible for wars of aggression on the pretext of unproven or unfounded lies and allegations such as the non-existent ‘weapons of mass destruction’ in Iraq, or the unfounded ‘massacres of the population’ in Libya. This attack represents a new and serious step in the operation of destabilization and aggression that, for seven years, has been promoted against Syria, is inseparable from the defeats inflicted by Syria and its people to terrorist groups and ends up unpredictable and dangerous consequences for this country, the Middle East and the world. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary session: 1 — Condemns the bombing of the United Kingdom and France against the Syrian Arab Republic, an act that constitutes a flagrant violation of the Charter of the United Nations and international law and an aggression against Syria and its people; 2 — Demands the end of the aggression against Syria and its people, who resist and fight in defense of their sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, the right to decide, free from any interference, their fate; 3 — Repudiates the position taken by the Portuguese Government and the President of the Republic and considers that, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic, the Charter of the United Nations and international law, Portugal must fight for the end of aggression against Syria and support the ongoing initiatives for dialogue and peace”.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u137	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 526 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u138	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u139	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u140	Mr President, it is to inform you that, on this vote, me and the honourable Members. Mr Constance Urbano de Sousa, Diogo León and Wanda Guimarães will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u141	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 116 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the system of balanced representation between men and women in the management staff and in the bodies of the Public Administration. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, PAN and the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galliça Neto, votes against the PCP and the members of the CDS-PP Álvaro Castello-Branco, Ana Rita Bessa, Antonio Carlos Monteiro, Cecília Meireles, Filipe Anacoreta Correia, Hélder Amaral, Ilda Araújo Novo, João Gonçalves Pereira, João Pinho de Almeida, João Rebelo, Pedro Mota Soares, Telmo Correia and Vânia Silva Days and abstentions from the CDS-PP Nuno Magalhães and Patrícia Fonseca.]] [[Congratulations from BE, the PAN and, standing up, PS deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u142	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u143	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u144	Mr President, it is to make it very clear that I voted against. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u145	All right, Mrs. Deputy. It was certainly a lack of visibility on the part of the Bureau. Mrs. Members, this diploma is down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u146	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u147	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u148	Mr President, it is only to say that, with regard to this vote, I shall, on my behalf, present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u149	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u150	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u151	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u152	Mr President, just to say that I will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u153	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. You have the floor, Mr Duarte Filipe Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u154	Mr President, it is also to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Miguel Morgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u155	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u156	Mr President, I will also inform you that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa. And, in order not to interrupt the work again, I would like to say that we will do the same with regard to the next vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u157	Be registered. Mrs Ana Sofia Bettencourt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u158	Mr President, in order to say that, on my behalf and on behalf of my fellow Members, we will present a statement of vote on this vote and the following one.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u159	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u160	Yes, Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mr João Gonçalves Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u161	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Filipe Anacoreta Correia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u162	Mr President, it is to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u163	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. In view of all the intentions of the announced explanations of vote, we shall proceed to the vote on Bill No 117 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Change the law of parity in the organs of political power. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, PAN and the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto, votes against the PCP, PSP MP Paula Teixeira da Cruz and CDS-PP Deputies Álvaro Castello-Branco, Ana Rita Bessa, Antonio Carlos Monteiro, Cecilia Meireles, Filipe Anacoreta Correia, Hélder Amaral, Ilda Araújo Novo, João Gonçalves Pereira, João Pinho de Almeida, João Rebelo, Pedro Mota Soares, Telmo Correia and Vânia Dias da Silva and Abstentions de Os Verdes, de PSD Miguel Morgado and Deputies de CDS-PP Nuno Magalhães and Patrícia Fonseca.]] [[Congratulations from BE, the PAN and, standing up, PS deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u164	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u165	Mr. Deputies, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u166	Mr President, just to inform me that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u167	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u168	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u169	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u170	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a technically well-detailed declaration of vote. [[General laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u171	Thank you, sir. We will then have the opportunity to take that into account or not! [[Laughing.]] Mrs. Members, we proceed to the general vote on Bill No 833 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures measures to promote equality and non-discrimination between women and men in the exercise of leadership positions by proceeding with 7. the amendment to Law No 2 / 2004 of 15 January, which approves the status of the management staff of the services and bodies of the public administration ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriça Neto and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u172	After all, they were for equality, but just like that! [[Protests by Members of the CDS-PP Nuno Magalhães and Telmo Correia and Counterprotests by Members of the PCP João Oliveira and Rita Rato.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u173	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of the vote, so I would ask that there be no bank-to-bank calls. Even within the bench itself it is not advisable, the more from one bench to another.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u174	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u175	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u176	Mr President, that is to say that the PS will deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u177	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1441 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prohibit the implementation of the entry of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon into the social capital of the Montepio General Economic Bank ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the votes against the PS and the abstentions of BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u178	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u179	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u180	Mr President, it is only to announce that, with regard to this vote and the three that will follow on the issues of the Holy House, I will present a declaration of vote individually.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u181	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 823 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 235 / 2008 of 3 December, which establishes that, in order to carry out strategic and structural investments, the Bureau of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon needs the authorization of protection ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1487 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take all the steps legally assigned to it to prevent the entry of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon into the capital of the Montepio General Economic Bank ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the votes against the PS and the abstentions of BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1508 / XIII ( 3 ) was followed. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the investment policy of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u182	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u183	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u184	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on these votes that we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u185	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1452 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures in the area of rare diseases and disabilities by promoting greater support and protection for patients with rare diseases and disabilities as well as their caregivers ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and the abstentions of the PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1505 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures in the area of rare diseases and disability ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1506 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the regulation of the profession of genetic adviser ( BE) ( text replaced by the author of the initiative ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of BE and the PAN and the abstentions from the PSD, the CFP and the Greens.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1507 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government support measures for people with rare diseases ( BE) ( text replaced by the author of the initiative ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u186	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u187	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u188	Mr President, it may be my mistake, but I have an indication that there will be a point vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u189	There was no indication at the Bureau in that regard. We shall therefore vote on draft resolution No 1507 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u190	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u191	Mr. Deputies, is it for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u192	It is to indicate that we will present a declaration of vote on draft resolutions 1452 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and 1506 / XIII ( 3. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u193	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed with the general vote on Bill No. 798 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Renewal and extension of post-doctoral scholarships until compliance with Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August, as amended by Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 8.The Commission. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1354 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the transitional financing of doctoral researchers whose scholarships have ceased pending the application of amendments to Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August ( CDS-PP ) ( The title has been replaced at the request of the author ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP, the votes against the PS and the PCP and the abstentions of BE and the Greens.]] The draft resolution goes down to 8. We now have the general vote on Bill No 777 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the extension of research scholarships and scholarships contracts under scientific and similar research projects ( PSDs ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the votes against the PS and the abstentions of BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] The draft resolution goes down to 8. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 816 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension and renewal of post-doctoral research grants until the publication of the outcome of the tenders provided for in Article 23. the Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 8.The Commission. We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1498/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — General Information Security Policy of the Assembly of the Republic ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1502 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Portugal 2020 and its reprogramming ( PSD ). Here, yes, the CFP requested division in three points : point 1, point 2 and point 3. We shall vote on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS and BE abstentions.]] Finally, we are voting on point 3. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u194	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u195	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u196	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's bench will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u197	Be registered. We continue to vote, in general, on Bill No. 661 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Create the military emergency unit ( PSD ) [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, the Bureau proposes the joint vote on draft resolutions Nos 1364 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the Castro Daire Secondary School ( PSD ), 1374 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for the urgent retraining and rehabilitation of the Castro Daire Secondary School in order to guarantee dignity to the entire school community ( CDS-PP ) and 1432 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Castro Daire High School (The Greens ). [[Pause.]] If there is no objection, we shall proceed to the joint vote of those diplomas. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the Members of the PS Lucia Araújo Silva and José Rui Cruz were adopted and the PS abstained.]] We proceeded to the joint vote of two requests submitted by the PCP and the CDS-PP respectively, asking the Education and Science Committee for a 60-day vote of draft resolutions 1373/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the enhancement of vocational education with the guarantee of equal opportunities for all students ( PCP ) and 1501/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the advance of benefits due to vocational schools where there is delay in the financing of POCH ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These draft resolutions fall to 8. The Commission shall, without a vote, for a period of 60 days. We shall vote on draft resolution No 975 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the development process of the very high voltage line that will cross Barcelos ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on Bill No 101 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sets out the rules on compensation actions for infringement of competition law by transposing Directive 2014 / 104 / EU and draft law No 599 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the defence of competition and regulates compensation actions for infringement of the provisions of competition law ( Private Enforcement ) ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken and voted on in favour of the PS and PS, votes against the CFP and the Greens, and abstentions against BE, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indicative votes in the speciality at the Commission, with regard to the replacement text that we have just voted on. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall final vote of the said replacement text. [[The vote was taken and voted on in favour of the PS and PS, votes against the CFP and the Greens, and abstentions against BE, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We now vote for Bill No. 364 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend Law No 37 / 81 ( Nationality Law ) ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u198	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u199	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u200	Mr President, I just wanted to make a clarification of what we are going to vote on next. The PSD enabled the vote of its bill No. 364 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), however, the voting script indicates that this bill also gave rise to the replacement text from the Commission, which we will now vote, which is impossible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u201	This bill was considered in the debate in the Commission and therefore the fact that it was then put to the vote on the PSD, on its own initiative, and rejected, does not mean that it withdraws from what happened in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u202	Having not been removed, it cannot be replaced by the replacement text, Mr President. Therefore, from the moment that it was not withdrawn and was voted autonomously, there must be a correction of the name of this replacement text to remove this indication from the PSD bill, otherwise it makes no sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u203	I have a different view — but the services can regulate this — since at the time the replacement text was drafted, all initiatives, including those of the PSD have been taken into account. The PSD then decided to submit its draft law alone, which was refused, but this does not prevent it from having been discussed in the Commission and being part of this final work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u204	I call again, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u205	I'm asking you not to take us too long with this incident. Please, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u206	Mr President, just to indicate the value I want to protect with this clarification. in the assumption that a parliamentary group presents a bill and that there are a set of projects that go down to the Commission for debate, in view of the drafting of a replacement text, this parliamentary group may not want to see its bill indicated or subsumed in that replacement text and, when it empowers it, cannot be obliged to have the indication of its draft come in the name of the replacement text. That's what's at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u207	But the PSD Parliamentary Group has not delivered its opinion, it is the Left Block Parliamentary Group that is taking its position.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u208	But on the contrary it also works, Mr President. It makes no sense to continue giving effect to a bill that no longer exists, because it was rejected minutes ago, on the basis of a name of which it is not part.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u209	I call on the PSD Parliamentary Group to address this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u210	Mr President, the PSD legislative initiative was a fundamental part of the discussion in the Commission, so this measure should be considered in this vote, despite the previous lead.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u211	I have the same opinion. I don't know what the PS Parliamentary Group thinks, right now, to have an idea...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u212	We agree with the opinion of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u213	He believes that we can vote in accordance with the opinion of the Bureau. All right, then there's a majority in this direction. Mrs. Members, let us therefore vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the drafts of lein.o 364 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter to Law No 37 / 81 ( Law of Nationality ) ( PSD ), 390 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Nationality Act, approved by Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, and the emolumentary regulation of the registers and notary, approved by Decree-Law No 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December ( BE), 428 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Nineth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ) ( PCP ), 544 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Eighty amendments to the Nationality Act, adopted by Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, amended by Law No 25 / 94 of 19 August, by Decree-Law No 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December, and by Organic Laws No 1 / 2004 of 15 January, No 2 / 2006 of 17 April, No 1 / 2013 of 29 July, No 8 / 2015 of 22 June and No 9 / 2015 of 29 July ( PS ) and 548 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Nationality Act ( NAP). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We are now voting for the plenary of the indicative votes in the special session of the Commission with regard to the replacement text we have just voted on. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, I inform you that this replacement text requires, in the overall final vote, an absolute majority of Members in office effectiveness by means of an electronic vote in accordance with Article 166 ( 2 ). Article 164 ( f ). Article 168 ( 5 ) and ( 5 ). that of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, I therefore ask the services that prepare the system for the end of Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we can vote. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u214	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u215	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u216	Mr. President, I believe two gentlemen. Members of the Portuguese Communist Party were unable to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u217	There are still Mrs. and Mrs. Members to register at this time of the championship, which seems to me a little late, but finally... [[Pause.]] All the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, are they registered? We shall therefore proceed to the overall final vote on this replacement text. The gentlemen. Members will raise-CL - according to their sense of vote at the same time they vote electronically, charging the red button to vote against, the white button to abstain or the green button to vote in favour. [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the members in effective office, with 118 votes in favour (PS, BE, PCP, The Greens and PAN), 16 against (CDS-PP) and 79 abstentions (PSD).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u218	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u219	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u220	Mr President, to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u221	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Vitalino Canas, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u222	Mr. President, to announce that I and Mr. Mr. Paulo Pisco, Mr.António Gameiro and Mr. Miranda Calha will present a statement of vote on this vote and the next two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u223	On the vote on the Diaries? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u224	The next two must not be because they relate to the approval of the Journals of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr President. Mr António Filipe, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u225	Mr President, to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u226	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u227	For the same purpose, Mr President, to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u228	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u229	Mr President, to announce that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will also present a written vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u230	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Vitalino Canas, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u231	Mr President, in order to indicate that when I am so sorry, I referred to the next two votes, I would like to refer to the previous two.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u232	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We had already assumed that it referred to the two previous votes. Mrs. Members, paragraphs 54 to 66 of the Journal are hereby approved for plenary meetings of 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 14, 15, 16, 21, 22, 23, 28 and 29 March 2018. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco also has the floor to account for the entry of an initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u233	Mr. President and Mr. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 1518 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By an alternative of more growth and better state ( PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u234	Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, 24 April, and the agenda includes the debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, in which draft resolutions 1511 / XIII ( 3 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Stability Programme 2018 - 2022 and National Reform Plan ( CDS-PP ), 1513 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the Stability and Budget Implementation Programme comply with the deficit limits set out in the approval of the State budget for 2018 and that the registered budget breaks ( BE) are returned to the company ( BE ), 1517 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Reform Programme, adopt a set of measures to place Portugal on a sustained path of economic growth and employment ( CDS-PP ), 1518 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By an alternative of more growth and better state ( PSD ) and 1514 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by affirming Portugal's sovereign right to decide its future and by responding to the problems of the country ( CFP ). I would like to draw attention to the fact that this meeting starts at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u235	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u236	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u237	Mr President, to provide clarification on two ways of voting for the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u238	That regiment figure does not exist, Mr President. Is it to correct the sense of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u239	Mr President, there is eventually a misconception of the Bureau about one and I want to make one correction about the other.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u240	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u241	in the vote on Bill No 117 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a) Mr President will have informed that the NAP has abstained but voted in favour. in the vote of Bill No 364 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) the NAP voted in favour but intends to change the sense of vote to abstention. It was a mistake on my part.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-20.u242	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Therefore, there were misconceptions on both sides, which in any case do not alter the final results of the votes, but these notes will be taken into account. Thank you all very much for your participation. Good weekend and until Tuesday, 24th, in the morning. [[It was 12 hours and 31 minutes.]]
