ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. Before we begin today's agenda, I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the projects of lein.os 736 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Strengthens the legal-penal protection of privacy of privacy on the Internet ( PS ), 737 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Increases the tax transparency of fuels through more detailed information to consumers ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 738 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 introducing changes to the adoption regime and adapting the protection regime in parenthood to assisted medicinal procreation ( PAN ), 739 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 by strengthening the protection regime in parenthood ( PAN ), 740 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Protection of parenthood in situations of adoption and use of drug procreation assisted by couples of the same sex ( PS ) and 741 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Done at 15. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code establishes the allowance for child care in place of the allowance for breastfeeding or breastfeeding ( CDS-PP ). Drama also entered the Bureau draft resolutions 1247 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create, make available and maintain an electronic portal where information related to the responses created following the 2017 forest fires ( PCP ) is disclosed. the Commission, 1248 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by eliminating the difficulties of circulation between the municipalities of Chamusca and Golegã through the bridge João Joaquim Isidro dos Reis ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1249 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Acquisition of the Announcement, by Álvaro Pires de Évora ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1250 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the development of actions aimed at defending and valuing the wet area of the White Alagoas ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1251 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of EN124 located in the councils of Silves and Portimão ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1252 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the means of support for Portuguese citizens returning to the country ( PCP ), 1253 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by valuing and strengthening the human, financial and technical resources of the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal ( PCP ) and 1254 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government compile and make available in the Government's electronic portal all the legislative production relating to the 2017 forest fires and sensitize authorities to convey information to citizens in their territories ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. Resolutions 1255 / XIII ( 3 ) were also introduced. a ) — Opening of the basic emergency service at Our Lady of Help Hospital in Espinho ( The Greens), 1256 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of an extraordinary programme of support for Portuguese and Luso-descendants which, under social, economic and political circumstances abroad, return to the national territory ( CDS-PP ), 1257 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reopening of the basic urgency of the Hospital of Our Lady of Help, in Espinho ( BE ), 1258 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by maintaining port's islands as a housing response and with reduced rates of effort ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1259 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the early completion of the review process of the fiscal calendar by reorganizing the delivery times of the different tax declarations and by defining appropriate conditions for the making available of the completion and submission of such declarations ( PCP ), 1260 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to prevent and combat cyberbullying and cybercrime, including the establishment of working groups to assess the criminal response to these phenomena and to evaluate existing legal and regulatory diplomas in the field of mental health ( CDS-PP ), 1261 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on the impact of the reopening of the railway service on the Port Belt Line ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1262 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a permanent service at Our Lady of Aid Hospital in Espinho ( PSD ) and 1263 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the establishment of the Special Protection Zone of the Historic Centre of Porto, as determined in Law No 107 / 2001 ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u3	Thank you, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. We will enter our agenda, the first of which is a current debate required by BE under 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on « the dramatic situation in the TGI-Gramax factory, former Triumph International, and the safeguarding of workers'wages and rights ». To open the debate, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am here to tell you the story of a fraud. A multinational with a known brand, the Triumph lingerie brand, and with an important market share in Europe and Portugal, decided to relocate its production and close the factory that had been in Portugal for more than 50 years. Triumph knew that this would cost: with nearly 500 workers who dedicated their lives to the factory, he would have to pay compensation to those who have more than 20 and 30 years of work. With tax benefits and other public support that it has received over the years, the relocation of Triumph would still raise problems of non-compliance with European legislation and the escape of a unit with social cost would entail heavy consequences in the image of Triumph. So what did the multinational do? He anticipated a year's relocation, moving the factory to a venture capital fund called Gramax Capital, which does business buying and selling European industrial companies, often liquidating them – see their insolvency register. Before the sale, Triumph itself made orders to the factory guaranteeing a year of production of Gramax. The operation included a number — with the presence of the Minister of Economy and everything! — celebrating the new investment and presenting the misfortune as conquest. But the misfortune had a marked date, because the relocation was completed and the production started in other places. Triumph stopped ordering and Sacavém's factory stopped. The new company was never a new investment, but only a biombo. That is where the person who dedicates his life to the factory sees the ground run under his feet and the country sees another closed factory, again a unit that has received public support over the years, more loss of productive capacity, more a social crime — 500 people in unemployment. It is only for Triumph that everything can go well: it is free to answer on European rules — technically, it was not Triumph who closed the factory since it received public support; and it is also free of image costs — public indignation will reach the name of an unknown company, protecting the commercial image of Triumph. Moreover, the responsibility for the compensation to be paid also falls to Gramax. Abandoned by a solid multinational, the rights of workers remain in the hands of those who only know how to decapitalize the company. Mr President, this is also the history of a struggle. Today, 20 days and 500 hours of vigilance are completed by the workers at the door of the ancient Triumph in Sacavem: day and night, with rain and cold, without furnishing feet, to prevent Gramax, insolvent, from still robbing them the heritage — clothes and machines — of the factory that helped build with decades of work. [[Congratulations from BE.]] These workers keep the doors of the factory because they know that if one day the doors are definitely closed this property of the factory is the guarantee of a minimum compensation, always less than that guaranteed by law. To all these women — to the workers who are now in the galleries of Parliament and to those who are at the door of the factory — I would like to pay tribute on behalf of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The struggle of these workers did not require presidential affections, visits by rulers or expressions of charity to conquer their place. A lot tells us these absences about who didn't show up.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u6	But the case of Triumph is national, because it is not an isolated case and because it is an example of the tenacity of whom the company has only given its strength and its best. This is already a victory for the women and men of Triumph, because they took down Gramim's biombo and unmasked fraud. Its struggle is that of the dignity of the country and the Left Block is not that country that prefers to look elsewhere. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the industry in Portugal has lost four out of every 10 workers in the last decade. In addition, it lost productive capacity, increased import dependence and worsened the country's balance of payments. You see too much in poorly explained and worst managed insolvencys. You see too much with workers at the door of companies to try to secure what is yours by law. You see too much condemning workers and specialized workers to long-term unemployment and poverty. We therefore have responsibilities and three urgent questions. First of all, we need an investment policy that safeguards the productive capacity installed in the country and that runs through this bleeding. Portugal may and must have an industrial policy and assume public responsibilities. Secondly, we need to combat fraud and impunity in order to prevent more insolvency, which is actually a assault on workers and the country. It is time to review legislation to prevent fraudulent insolvency, giving priority to what counts: jobs, workers' rights, protection of productive capacity, strong criminalization of abuse. Finally, we need a concrete response to the case of workers and workers in Triumph, who have been unemployed since November and, in some cases, covers the whole family working in Triumph. We must give them immediate support, ensuring that their credits are fully paid and a solution for the next day. If justice is asked for justice, the government is required to ensure the protection of workers during the insolvency process and to intervene to defend productive capacity and allow the factory to reopen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u7	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u8	I really am concluding, Mr President. If everything fails and there is no solution that prevents the closure of Triumph, the Government must recognise the need for a social response, training and employment for these 463 people. Triumph workers have been at the door of the company for 20 days and protect each other in solidarity. Your struggle is an example of dignity. If justice is done to them, it is not just an emergency, it is a requirement of democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u9	Mrs. Members, the Bureau does not record any entries for this current debate. I hope that the parliamentary groups will quickly register their Members, because otherwise we will have to move on to the next item on the agenda. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am still about to see how interesting it is to want to intervene before or after a particular parliamentary group. There will be a time when it will turn from statements to consequences. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, the Bureau registered. Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD, whom I thank for being the first to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. Deputies and Mr. Members: My first words are of solidarity with the workers who, at the moment, with their families, live moments of much distress and much uncertainty. The Left Block has scheduled for today this current debate and I thought that this would be a turning point in this kind of debate, that it would be a time when the Left Block would leave this political duality that characterizes it—it is time, Mrs Catarina Martins, of BE to assume its responsibilities: the time when on the second, fourth and sixth days they are with the government and in the other days of the week they are in opposition. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] Let us be clear: this government, which can solve the problems of the country, is only in place because it has parliamentary support in this Assembly of the Republic, which is supported by various parties, including the Left Block. If so, we hoped that the Left Block would finally assume its responsibilities and bring a solution here. [[BE's protests.]] They do not need to meet with their ministers at the factory door, because they do so weekly in offices. That is where they must, in fact, seek to solve these problems and cease once and for all having this dual, hybrid role which does not dignify the political debate and much less Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not your protests that will solve the problems of those people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u11	Are those yours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u12	...it's not your screams that will solve the problems of those people; it's actually the actions. That is why we need to change the page and move on to another time, when the parties that support and enable the government bring about and implement solutions. Only then will it be possible to end this hybrid climate, in which one day they do one thing and another day they do the opposite. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: And what has the government done in this area? When everything goes well, until they run over, both the leaders of the parties that support the government, and the different state secretaries and ministers. It is a corruption to see who can tell the Portuguese « it was thanks to me that this is happening». [[PSD applause.]] But when things go wrong, when things don't run as you wish, everyone disappears, no one sees face to face, no one takes responsibility. This is what we've seen. That is what happens in this particular case. It took a year, a year when we all saw another propaganda action, in which Mr.Economics went to Gramax, in which he told the country that the situation was resolved and that there was even more investment and that more employment would be created. But it is time for us to oppose it, to ask the government and the parties who support it, what went wrong, what failed, which, in just over 12 months, made us actually come to this situation. So right now we needed to realize what went wrong and to take care of responsibilities. It is also very important that we keep this in mind: governing is difficult, it is decided, and if it takes courage to decide, it also takes courage to take responsibility for decisions. And here decisions are not single, here decisions are collective and are made by the government and supported in this Parliament by the Left Block, the PCP, the Greens and the PS. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u13	What does PSD want? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u14	Therefore, the challenge you face here today is that you should leave this duality, that you should assume your responsibilities and, above all, that you should do and speak less. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u15	I have the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Ricardo Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u16	Mr President, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Trade, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members: Allow me, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, to also congratulate all the workers of Textile Gramax present in the galleries. [[Triumph!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u17	from the old Triumph. Firstly, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, I would like to thank the Left Block for bringing this issue to the debate today for the importance of this issue, for the consequences it is having, but also for the concern it brings to us all. The factory of the German brand Triumph began its production in Loures in the 1960s, becoming one of the largest employers of this municipality. It was from public knowledge that, some years ago, Triumph came to express the intention to abandon production in our country through this unit in Sacavém, announcing the purpose of realising the sale of the company or, ultimately, to proceed to its closure. After a period for which the worst was feared, in the second half of 2016 it was announced to be sold to the Textile Gramax International ( TGI ) group, and in January 2017, after a visit to the company of Mr. Minister of Economy, the maintenance of this unit as well as the maintenance of jobs and the implementation of a new investment plan that provided for diversification in production and export to new markets was announced. I confess that it was amazing that at the end of last year both the PS Parliamentary Group, but also myself as President of the Loures Municipal Assembly, we were aware of the workers who, by decision of the Textile Gramax International, were working at home because there was no workflow, claiming that they had no customer portfolio to meet the existing costs, including presenting a restructuring plan. This plan, which quickly became, very recently, a insolvency process that, in addition to the impact on the country, has an extremely harmful impact on the municipality of Loures, where much of its workers reside, representing this unit as one of its main employers. The PS Parliamentary Group, either by information from the workers or by the Government's response to the legislative question which it immediately asked, was aware of the seriousness of the situation, of the late wages, of the absence of payment of the Christmas allowance, but also of the follow-up and concern that the current Government is having with this matter. One of Portugal's main challenges for the next decade lies in the development and modernization of companies and economic activity in general. Without robust economic growth, improved productivity and increased external competitiveness, none of the national problems can be solved in a sustainable way. Therefore, bet on the performance of the economy and businesses, on the creation of employment and the qualification of our workers and on human capital in general has been an imperative of the current government. The results are now visible, with the growth of our economy and the reduction of the unemployment rate at levels of 10 years ago. This government, and the Minister for Economic Affairs in particular, have been guided by a policy of constant proximity and follow-up to the business fabric in our country. in this sense, I would like to emphasize the position of the current government, which, without much concern, has worked discreetly on this subject, on the one hand, with the visits of the Act (Working Conditions Authority) and the IEFP (Employment and Vocational Training Institute) and with the efforts of social security so that in the short term workers will receive what they are entitled to in a timely and effective manner, in particular the extraordinary processing for the payment of benefits, which is extremely urgent for the reality that many families already find themselves and, on the other hand, the Government's efforts to find an investment solution seeking investors who allow workers to have their dignity and guaranteed rights. Finally, I wanted to say that the PS Parliamentary Group once again demonstrates its extreme concern and solidarity with the difficult situation of nearly 500 workers and their families, who are on the watch, day and night, at the door of the company, only to fight for their rights, that I myself found on a night when I moved there. in this sense, I want to take advantage to enhance the solidarity of many associations with the workers there, such as sculptors, Municipal Chamber and fregetical joints surrounding that factory.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u18	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u19	I'm done now, Mr. President. We also hope that, with the recent appointment of a judicial administrator and their special process of revitalization and with the commitment of all, workers' rights can be met quickly. I shall finish with the certainty and assurance that the PS Parliamentary Group is fully committed to resolving this situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u20	Mr Hélder Amaral spoke on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, of course, on behalf of the CDS, to begin by congratulating the workers present in the galleries and saying that we have several ways to address this problem. This problem has several causes, perhaps several solutions, but one thing we know: the only ones who are not guilty and who have fulfilled their role well are the workers of Triumph. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u22	Having said that, I want to say that the Bloc has done well to bring this debate here, but it is good to tell the Bloc that, unfortunately, the Government which you, Mrs Catarina Martins, support has no Minister of Economics. And it was good for the honourable Member to start by explaining why she does not have a Minister for Economic Affairs. I say this because the Prime Minister who said something about this was the Minister of Labour. So far, we have not yet heard the Minister for Economic Affairs make an intervention such as that which is required of the Minister for Protection. It is clear that we know what Minister Caldeira Cabral said: he said that he welcomed the survival of the old factory and that everything would be fine. And the first question that we are asking is: on which was the Minister of Economy based to ensure the country and workers that everything was okay and that everything would be okay? The other question we are asking is that we should know why the Left Block simply asks written questions about the situation of the company and why it is that, at the meetings it has with the government, it does not go any further and does not directly ask what is the solution it has for this company. Therefore, the Left Block, yes, blows to the side, yes, realizes that it does not see and ultimately comes here to do that role that does well, which is to say « I am in government, but we like to account for that we are in opposition ». That is short because the Minister says 'we do not resign, we will have to find solutions, we have solutions'. Question : What are the solutions? What's the solution? What are the commitments made by this company that you are not fulfilling? what the country needs is a government that makes commitments and obliges its fulfilment, a government that penalises those who do not comply! The CDS obviously supports the business fabric, but not the one who does not meet commitments, not the one who does not comply with the rules. We're on the side of the rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u24	Let us be clear: if the idea is, as I have often seen in Parliament, to attack the stability of labour laws, to diabolize investment, to diabolize investors, not to create an investment-friendly climate, then we cannot find it strange what circumstances these happen. They are even more serious when, knowing that, the government does not create conditions to anticipate problems, to enforce the rules. And that didn't happen. The Minister was in the Committee on Economic Affairs and said: 'We will be on the side of the workers to ensure that everything goes well with them.' So I repeat the question: how, when and under what circumstances? That's what we want to know. And today, on behalf of the workers, in the name of confidence in investment, on behalf of employment and the country, we cannot leave here without the government's answers on why these situations continue to happen, on what assurances the Minister had that everything was going well and which solutions for the workers and how we have solved this problem. It is only that if you do not, Madam Member, we will be here making empty statements, which may eventually fill any newspaper, and the problem of workers tomorrow will continue to be the same. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u25	Mr Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this process, the most important are the workers. in this process, the most important are, and must be, the workers and their rights, because the workers have nothing more than their labor force, and that is why this is not a problem of Sacavém, it is not a problem of Loures, it is not a problem of the district of Lisbon, it is a problem of the country. The defence of employment with rights and the defence of the productive apparatus are a development strategy for the country and require the involvement of the government. [[PCP applause.]] It's not acceptable, sirs. Members, that this company, after having been sold to Gramax, has been visited by the Minister of Economics, has been sold as a good example of success in foreign investment and that so far these workers have not had an effective response by the Ministry of Economics in this process. This is a fraudulent process! The history of the ex-Triumph, now Gramax, is the history of the premeditated dismantling of a company and the attack on workers' rights. The company acted in bad faith with these workers. These workers were literally abandoned by the company. The managers of this company, which a little longer than a year ago were good examples of success, are those who refuse to look at these workers, are those who, in the evening, try to steal equipment from the company, which are the last guarantee of the fulfilment and payment of the rights and credits of these workers. For this reason, the workers have nothing but their struggle, their strength, the solidarity of the trade union movement, the solidarity of the population, the authorities and those who know that the reason is on the side of the workers. [[PCP applause.]] These workers were those who, over 40 years ago, sewn profits to the former Trioph, "has increased" the profits of this company. And this company, in a strategy of disrespecting the rights of these people, tried to take responsibility for their situation. First of all, he had to call them a « burden ». What the former Treniph, now Gramax, called these workers was a « burden» and what it has actually developed was a fraudulent insolvency process. What was on the table, from the beginning, was an attempt at a restructuring process, but, as there was no fit to execute it, they advanced with an insolvency process. This situation is of the greatest seriousness and the Government must assume all responsibilities in monitoring this situation and in fulfilling the rights of workers. This was the last production unit in Europe! This company has 1100 workers! When it was sold it had 600 and currently has about 470 workers. It's not acceptable, sirs. Members, whom workers have to be at the door of the company almost 20 days ago to prevent the removal of material. It's not acceptable! It is not acceptable that all those who claim to be victims of affection have missed these workers, that those who have always been available to meet successful publications and successful investments have missed these workers. We therefore understand that it is very important to take action, and there is still time to do so. We have doubts, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to take insolvency as a final point. We have doubts about it! The production unit needs some workers, because many are still very new to reform—there are workers who are not yet 40 years old—and it is also necessary to guarantee the defence of national production for the development of the country. A proposal from the CFP was unanimously approved to ensure a response to this company. It has been approved here, for all, but the truth is that there have been no solutions. It is urgent to guarantee social protection rights immediately, either in access to the Salary Guarantee Fund or in access to unemployment benefit. It is necessary and urgent to ensure payment of all debts, but it is urgent to work in solutions to ensure jobs and the continuity of production, for the lives of these workers, but also for the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u27	The floor is now also for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary for Parliamentary and Deputy Affairs and Trade, Mrs and Mrs. Members: A previous note arising from the intervention of the CDS-PP. I do not come here to give you advice, as it is evident, Mr Hélder Amaral, but to give the Greens' opinion. And the Greens understand that if the CDS and the PSD continue to find causes that are in fact not the real essence of the problems, then they cannot find the right solutions. I would like to remind you, Mr Hélder Amaral, that it was with your labour legislation that this problem happened and with your labour legislation that many companies have closed doors in this country. [[PCP applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u29	So, Mr. Hélder Amaral, do you think that the problem of companies is labour legislation that facilitates redundancies, making them cheap for employers? Oh, my God! Do you think that the problem of companies is labour legislation that is all along the side of employers' bodies, Mr Deputies? Oh, my God! Don't! This is the problem of the country's economy, that is the problem of workers, and hence the need to regulate and balance forces to dignify work in the country. The problem, Mr President, is that many companies, as has already been mentioned, receive a lot of money and public benefits, use and abuse, are not at least controlled and will then leave to their beauty, without connecting to anything at all. This is not worthy of a developed country, but this is your economy, the law of the jungle!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u30	Ours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u31	Yes, yours, which you too have built!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u32	The honourable Member is in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u33	Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, history has already been told here, but I want to reinforce a few questions, namely to leave a huge word of solidarity with the workers of the former Trioph, who have already had the opportunity to personally give, on the spot of the vigil, in front of the company, where, absolutely heroically, those workers, essentially women, were 20 days in a row, night and day, uninterruptedly, tirelessly, to fight for their rights and to ensure that the material would not, in a completely fraudulent way, leave that company. But we must strengthen this word of solidarity, because we are talking about specialized workers, who have always sought to ensure that the company's commitments and existing orders are met. The truth is that Gramim, which in the meantime bought the ex-Triumph, announced in early 2017 that it would invest more than 1 million euros to modernize the textile unit of Sacavém. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Minister for Economic Affairs at that time assured those workers the stability of that company. The time elapsed and what was found was the truth that came to the top at the end of 2017: the company sought to resume the restructuring plan aimed at the dismissal of 150 workers, but, at the end of December, these workers were confronted with the company's decision to move forward with a insolvency process. However, to the workers who made this heroic vigil, as we mentioned here, demonstrating how important it is to fight and not to furnish foot, they were missing five days of payment of the month of November, they were missing the payment of the month of December, they were missing the payment of all the Christmas allowance, they missed the payment of the month of January, and their accounts do not wait to be paid. That is the great problem these workers face. The company stopped serving meals, they didn't even have a meal to eat. It was the City Hall that gave them the hand in this field, as other associations that have already been mentioned here. And indeed this solidarity is imperative. We are talking about 463 workers, 463 people who are aggregated into families who need sustenance and, therefore, we are actually talking about people's lives, people's livelihoods, we are actually talking about very serious things. That is why Mr Under-Secretary of State and Trade, who today impose answers on this plenary, answers which the Greens have already asked the Government in terms of a written question, but which we have not yet obtained. It is essential, in essence, for the Government to say today that mechanisms and guarantees effectively provide for the protection of these 463 workers. The government can't run away from these answers! You can tell history,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u34	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u35	... you may say what you have done, you may even say what you have not done, that you would also be fine, but, Mr Secretary of State, you have to say that rights are guaranteed to these workers! [[PCP applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u36	The floor is now for an intervention by Mrs Isabel Pires, representing the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: With this debate, we realize that what bothers the right in this Parliament is not just not being in government, it is having no capacity and not being able to oppose. It is understood that where the requirement is, in what matters to people's lives, it is left and not on the right. And the workers realized it! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Regarding the interventions which PSD and CDS have made here, especially that of Mr.Emídio Guerreiro, who did not use the 5 minutes to which I was entitled, I have to say that they have shown total disrespect for the workers who were here and for the workers who are in the factory, and will continue at the door of the factory, until the solution is found. And it was a lack of respect that the PSD and CDS here had, because they took advantage of to politicize people's lives and said no word about the solutions that need to be found for this problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But we also know that when the rights of workers and workers were involved, as happened in PT, in TTC and now in Triumph, and also in other companies, the PSD and CDS never had anything to say, as they still have nothing to say, and they always turned their backs on the solutions presented. I only recall, for example, that in the case of the Salary Guarantee Fund and the need to increase its ceiling, the PSD voted against the Left Block proposal. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u38	So you see what PSD and CDS want for the workers: they don't want to know about the workers in our country! Therefore, it is recorded, with this debate—and the workers remained with this idea (not that they had a different idea or that they expected more of the PSD and the CDS)—that, when it comes to dignity and responding to workers and right-wing workers, nothing can wait, and so it will go on. So too, the governmental and parliamentary solution must be demanding and here we are to claim this requirement, because the PSD and the CDS, in labour matters, have no history, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a record of what you did to our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Under-Secretary of State and Trade, I would like to ask some questions about the possibilities for resolution and what is at stake for these workers, in particular with regard to the problem of insolvency. It has already been mentioned here that we are possibly faced with a case of fraudulent insolvency. Too many times we have seen such situations happen, but we cannot allow viable companies to use mechanisms to sell businesses or factories to specialists, such as Gramax — insolvency specialists — to, on the one hand, wash their face from a commercial point of view, and, on the other hand, cause unemployment and the destruction of thousands of families and also of the councils that need these important production centres for the country. Therefore, without a clarification of the legislation on these matters, we may be losing the opportunity to halt, in the future, fraud spread across the country and bring, by drag, unemployment, loss of rights and serious social problems to those who work, to their families and to the country. We believe that those who escape their responsibilities cannot be unpunished. That is what is at stake and what is intended to be clarified with this debate. Therefore, the question left to him was whether more Triumph and more workers would be needed to deal with fraud in relation to insolvency legislation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u39	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Trade, Paulo Alexandre Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is of solidarity with the workers and the workers who have been present recently in the galleries, noting that not only the Government shares the anxieties and concerns felt by them, but also, from the outset, is committed, in the front line, to promoting conditions for the maintenance of the jobs of workers and workers of the ancient Triumph and to always safeguard the fulfilment of their rights. Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is important to recall, once again, the history of this process. Shortly after taking possession, the Government was confronted with a pressing inevitability of closing this business unit, as a result of a decision taken by Triumph International, at the height of the Portuguese Triumph. As we did not comply with this pressing inevitability, we mobilized the administration of Triumph International, the different bodies of the Public Administration and, of course, the workers and the workers, in the joint search for a solution that would make it avoidable the closure of the unit, with the total loss of the jobs that this would mean, also counting on, and taking into account its local importance, with the involvement of both the Loures City Council and the Sacavém Freguess Board. in this search course of a solution, we began to explore, together with the national textile sector, alternatives that allowed the labor viability of the factory, bringing to Portugal its decision center. However, we have encountered difficulties resulting from the high size of this industrial unit and from the short time that existed to convert a business unit whose production, as has already been said, was exclusively for one customer, Triumph International, in a factory that had the capacity to develop, within a year, a diversified portfolio of customers and markets. in this context, the administration of Triumph International at that time informed the government that it had accepted the proposal presented by investor Gramax. Thus, a transitional period of the factory began, in which Triumph International would ensure the maintenance of a set of works, for a given period of time, that period should allow Gramax to constitute a commercial team capable of collecting a volume of orders necessary to ensure the commercial and financial sustainability of this production unit. Given its importance in the local economy and employment, the Government has accompanied this process in close cooperation, once again, with the City Council of Loures, with whom it has shared, from the very first moment, the desire to find a permanent solution, which would safeguard the employment and production capacity installed. The solution found by Triumph International was demanding, particularly at the level of the transition process, which would require, as I said, to create a portfolio of customers for a company which, until then, had always worked in a single customer context. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have arrived here, it is undeniable that this process has not achieved the desired success by all, nor does it reflect the commitment placed, from the first moment, by the Government, by the City Council of Loures, by the Board of Freguesia de Sacavem and, above all, by the workers and workers of the company. from the government, we leave the guarantee that we continue to engage and develop work in the different dimensions that the process presents. First, we continue to make efforts to promote the national and international skills of workers, in order to contribute to the maintenance of this capacity in the textile sector of the Lisbon region, in particular the Loures Council. Secondly, we are working, through an important work of proximity on the spot, with workers and workers, mobilising teams of the Labour Conditions Authority, the Employment and Vocational Training Institute, the Social Security Institute, I.P. , with the aim of ensuring - and this is a commitment which the Government here assumes, because it is already on the ground - that the rights of workers are being, and will be, safeguarded. within the framework of the initiatives we have now taken, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs will receive representatives from the workers at the beginning of next week. We continue to work to ensure that there is no inevitable and that these women and men can continue the work that they have built in recent decades, with national production, exports, job maintenance and social sustainability in the Loures municipality, so that they must continue to benefit from their contribution to the excellent economic moment that Portugal is living today. Today there is a climate favourable to growth, there is today a climate favourable to business investment and there is today confidence in Portugal. This is due to the action of this government and its supporters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u41	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u42	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Bloc makes a curious interpretation: it first requires the scheduling of a current debate, abdicates its political intervention and then accuses the CDS of doing politicism. [[BE's protests.]] Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to thank you for your conviction and even for the frontalness with which you make your speeches. for my part, with all the sympathy, I even like it. But use that same frontality and conviction to speak with the Socialist Party and the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u43	All right! [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u44	It is only those who are failing the workers, who are failing the company, that is their government, that is the Government of the Left Block, that is the Government of the Green Party, that is the Government of the Socialist Party. If you come here to accuse us of fraud, it is up to the government to prevent such fraud from happening!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u45	You haven't understood yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u46	It's a case of school failure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u47	Do not blame the previous government, because this is the responsibility of the government that you support, of the budgets that you approve, of the policies that you support here and which allow this kind of fraud. Mrs. Members, once and for all, and to conclude, management, which even generates some sympathy in some sectors, although not in these benches, has to serve something in the future, cannot only be for the return to the past. If it's just for the return to the past, it's little, it's short and the workers don't deserve it! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u48	After all, he's deaf!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u49	Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :I leave a final note in this debate, important, being recorded, in fact, this real political fraud we have here today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u51	Fraud was your intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u52	...which is the fact that they systematically realize they are not. As I have had the opportunity to say, a few days are opposition, other days are government! We are also clear about the fact that the government is concerned and is monitoring the situation, but solutions, what you should be presenting here to reassure people, since they are government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u53	So what about the PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u54	... I repeat, since they are government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u55	The PSD did not present a solution! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u56	Solutions, which you should present here, since they govern, since they enable this government, there is no! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u57	We've already told you what the solution is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u58	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u59	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, unfortunately, the history of the country is marked by examples of this type: it was Bombardier, it was Valadares, it was the Opel of Azambuja, it is now this company. In fact, there must be political will to follow these situations. It is not possible to present investment cases as successful cases and not ensure monitoring of situations. The workers realized what was going to happen, and it is therefore essential to ensure that the government accompanies these situations, under the penalty of being faced with relocation processes and closures of companies based on fraudulent insolvencys, because that is what this is about. The former Trineph found in Gramax a way to escape the rights of workers and secure their situation. The immediate protection of these people in access to the wage guarantee fund and unemployment allowance is urgent and it is urgent to ensure the maintenance of jobs and the defence of the country's productive apparatus. There is no development without a productive apparatus, and the government must have a firm word about these companies, which act in a manner that dares in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u60	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: This case of workers at Triumph is important to ensure their rights, but this struggle is also important to show that we still live in a very unequal country, in which most workers in similar situations do not even have access to the minimum guaranteed by law. This is the issue which must also be brought to debate and which must have a response at the level of public policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u63	Our role as Members of the Assembly of the Republic is to make proposals to go beyond the minimum guaranteed to workers. And we already realize where the proposals come from — the PSD and the CDS-PP never came up with proposals for workers. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, the remaining proposals are: it is necessary to guarantee and comply with the rights that are in the legislation and increase the protection of workers; it is necessary not to give up finding an investor to maintain jobs; at the level of the lives of those workers it is also necessary to look at the issue of the wage guarantee fund and to review the ceilings, which are very low, for many of the compensations that those workers would deserve; and public support for job conversion is needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u64	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u65	I shall conclude, Mr President, by telling the workers, who are still and will be kept at the door of the Triumph factory, that our role and our duty are not to abandon them. We already know that there are two parties in this Assembly of the Republic who have resigned from being parties, to approving solutions or, even, to supporting solutions, but on the side of the Left Block workers will not be abandoned and will triumph in their fight! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u66	We turn to the second item on the agenda, which consists of political declarations. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Health is on the agenda, with serious problems that accumulate, a very worrying reality for Portuguese and not a perception, as Mr. Prime Minister suggested weeks ago. For the CDS, reflecting on this reality and looking for solutions is neither a demagogic exercise nor populist, it is rather an imperative that follows the way we make politics, focused on people, in the best results, listening to specialists and without ideological prejudices. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We have not agreed today on this subject, we have not been awakened by newspaper titles or by soundbits, for more than two years we have been drawing attention to substantive issues in this area, and we have warned that if we pursue wrong policies and not seek some consensus, we would have bad results. We were right, unfortunately with clear damage to the Portuguese. So let's go to reality. Regarding waiting lists for consultations, for additional diagnostic examinations and for surgeries with unacceptable times, we were not swirling to the side. Since the beginning of 2016 we have questioned the government 13 times—yes, 13 times! — on this matter. The fact is that, between evasive responses and unfulfilled promises, we came to what, yesterday, the whole country realized: more than half of the hospitals not to comply with the recommended times, with even more serious numbers in some specialties, such as ophthalmology or urology. They are unacceptable figures, which reveal poor quality of the responses and lack of commitment from this government to solve situations that clearly undermine the well-being of the Portuguese people, who are left behind. For this government, in the area of health, good promises have been accumulated, which delay or fail to be met, and deficits and public debt are valued, at the cost of not properly valuing the relevance of the quality of public services, particularly in health. We know the problems that arise in emergencies and hospital admissions, the imperative need to adapt health services and professionals to the reality of aging and multiple chronic diseases. What did you see and see in this country, even having had less influenza activity than in previous years? You see more hospitalizations in worse conditions, accumulated monkeys, unacceptable waiting times, doctors, nurses, therapists and other exhausted health professionals and in insufficient numbers. You see no planning, unacceptable delay in activating contingency plans and responses in good time. For when? Yes, for once again we ask the hiring of more than 700 specialist doctors who have been waiting for you to be placed in the National Health Service for months in such competitions that are « from here to day»? The guardianship is not complying with the legislation, which was fulfilled until 2016. What about the hours owed to nurses who accumulate in hourly banks, which were not paid by the end of 2017, as was due, because there is no budget cabling? Don't! Health professionals are not a priority for this government either. On debts and late payments that accumulate, which interfere and impair the provision of care, as we have also seen a long time ago alerting, what is going on? Well, Mr Minister may come to this House or to the committee to announce capital injections in hospitals, because, as we see today in the Transparency portal — SNS debt amounts in the order of more than 300 million euros only to the Northern Lisbon Hospital Center we have reason to maintain the concern. [[CDS-PP applause.]] If we are talking about SNS reforms, we will certainly have many working groups, some even uncoordinated and without the necessary integrated vision of the problems they discuss, we will have some progress, which we welcome in the areas of palliative care, but we have, unfortunately, a timid hospital reform and a reform of primary health care that is stopped. We have asked a lot about it, even hearing what is serious, false statements by the Prime Minister on this matter. The reality—and, once again, it is fact that we speak—is evidence that 2017 was the worst year of primary health care reform in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u68	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u69	This is the scenario we know, with unfulfilled promises, with answers that take the most vulnerable, aggravated waiting lists, professionals in insufficient numbers, exhausted and unhappy, accumulated debts. This is the reality of health in Portugal and we are very concerned about it. It is a scenario that shows a lack of priority for health on the part of this government, which neither as a percentage against GDP nor as a result of previous years has given it due relevance and which has clearly harmed the Portuguese. It will not be enough, by the parties that have actively approved government policies and made their budgets viable, an exercise of contortionism, simulation and ambiguity, now criticizing by giving conditions, so that everything remains in it, because the Portuguese are not deluded and know who is conviving with this state of things today. Surely there is room for proposals... [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u70	Your time is up, Mrs. Member. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u71	I will finish, Mr. President. Surely there is room for proposals, and that is what we will do today at night and also on our parliamentary days next week, because we give health the best and the highest priorities. We ask for answers from this government, because it is indeed concrete answers that we expect and that the Portuguese are lacking, which, every day, expect and despair for better health care and in good time. The CDS will continue to attach relevance to this matter and we will not give up. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u72	Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, the Bureau registered four Mrs. Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u73	I shall reply to groups of two, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u74	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u75	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, the theme of health is obviously very important. In fact, it is because of this that the Left Block has presented so many proposals in this area and has criticized, whenever necessary, the Government and the Socialist Party. But we cannot help but notice that the honourable Member said from the rostrum that two years ago the CDS-PP has been alerting for health problems. Perhaps that is one of the problems, i.e. the fact that only two years ago he woke up for the problems in the National Health Service. As it seems only from now on that Mrs Assumption Cristals, who was a member of the PSD/CDS-PP government, woke up to these problems, made a visit to the hospital of Portalegre and was impressed by the lack of professionals. Mrs. Member, what did you do when you were in the government? How many professionals have been expelled from the National Health Service? Look, he even admired himself because professionals work longer hours! But was it not the CDS-PP that increased working hours and that still today is against the 35 hours applied to health professionals? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Well, there's a lot of inconsistency on this. But there is one thing we have to say, there is really a matter about the National Health Service in which the CDS-PP has all coherence: the CDS-PP is against the National Health Service; it voted against its creation; it was next to the review of the basic law proposed by a government of Cavaco Silva in 1990, a revision that introduced, for example, the moderate rates and that states that the State should support the development of the private sector—see! Therefore, it is clear what CDS-PP wants to do when it talks about health and when it says that it will organize a conference today. This conference, Mrs Deputy, will bear in mind, as one of the lecturers, a picture of the Hospital da Luz, Filipe Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u76	He's a lawyer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u77	It is presented as a picture of the Hospital da Luz and is studying the new model of funding for health. Mrs. Deputy, what model of funding is this which pleases both the officers of the Hospital of Light and the private? [[CDS-PP protests.]] Is that the model of funding that the CDS-PP still in the morning, in the Health Committee, has been defending, the promotion of public-private partnerships, the promotion of private individuals? Is this the amendment that promoted the Health Base Act in 1990, what is private funding?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u78	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u79	I will finish, Mr. President. Is this the new model of funding, to open the doors for the private, continuing to reduce the National Health Service, such as Mrs. Deputy and her party did when they were in the government? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u80	Mr António Sales now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u81	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, welcome to the debate on sustainability of the National Health Service. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u82	As can be seen in this Figure 1 of the evolution of the total expenditure of the SNS, this is the paradigmatic expression of the drastic reduction in the financing of the PSD / CDS government, between 2011 and 2015, and is also the investment of a curve, in 2015, very expressive of what this government has done in the matter of funding the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at the beginning of the legislature, Mrs. Deputy, in November 2015, the legacy left was frankly problematic with multiple situations of operational crisis at the level of access, investment and financing, as a result of strangulation and austerity policies, materialized in strong budget reduction. We saw a drastic reduction in investment, the closure of services, the limitation or postponement of therapeutic innovation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u83	Blind cuts!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u84	... to the freezing of admissions of professionals, to an increase in the number of citizens without a family doctor,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u85	We saw an increase in debt!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u86	... to reduce the remuneration of professionals, to impose an increase in working hours, without counterpart, to an increase in moderate rates and to worsen the situation of the transport of users of the National Health Service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u87	In the face of this adverse picture, the current government has strengthened health-related funds and has allowed the acceleration of therapeutic innovation authorisation processes, the admission of more 7000 professionals, the replacement of working hours, the defrosting of careers, the increase in the number of citizens with a family doctor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u88	It's hard to recognize!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u89	Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, do you not recognize that we are very different today than we were in November 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u90	In debt, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u91	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party and the Government are not satisfied, they want more! They want commitments to reaffirm the National Health Service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u92	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u93	... to promote renewal, modernisation and decentralization and to adapt a new human resources policy. I would therefore like to ask you one question: what are your proposals? We haven't heard any proposals! We're waiting. In addition, the CDS is available for a consensual, supra-partitionary basic agreement on a new adequacy of health framework, expressed in a new law of health bases, which meets a new reality of demographic transition...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u94	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u95	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, is the CDS available for a consensus-based agreement that meets a new demographic transition reality, applying funding formulas based on results and mechanisms to stabilize health spending lines? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u96	Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u97	Mr President, I begin by thanking the honourable Members for their questions. Mr Moisés Ferreira and Mr António Sales and, in fact, it is surprising that every time we come to talk about political issues, you bring a curtain of smoke to conceal the problems that all Portuguese people are experiencing. You are in fact in an awkward position to explain to the thousands of Portuguese people who are experiencing problems in emergencies today, that this is something that has nothing to do with you. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, it is extraordinary that he comes to criticize and that he then makes all the policies feasible,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u98	And the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u99	...including the Budget, and in this way, it's nothing more than conviving with what's happening. This is because these problems are with your government — I repeat, with the Government that supports — and they lack solutions. The Portuguese, as much as they can certainly favour reflections and proposals, expect answers from this government, which is a government two years ago, Mr President — I repeat, two years ago! in health, the answers were already yesterday! What have we seen? I would also like to remind Mr António Sales that two years ago we were the first in this House to respond to the challenge of the President of the Republic on a health pact. What's going on at the other sides? A fraternal silence! Repeat, fraternal silence! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Antonio Sales.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u100	They voted against our proposal to increase investment!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u101	So, two years ago, it wasn't now that the CDS, not being in the government, is... In fact, at a time when they announced that austerity had ended, that there were possibilities to change everything, to respond to the discontent of the professionals, what do we see? Don't delude reality! They can't fool reality! They're wrong in the photograph, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! They're wrong in the photograph, because the government is yours and the solutions... Note: There are contributions coming from the CDS, what happens? The gentlemen lead us! The proposals are put forward by you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u102	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u103	So it's ironic, at least. Mr President, I have no problem with saying, and it is with great pride that I say it, that I work in the Health Light, yes, and none of it beautifies my honesty and my verticality. I challenge him to prove otherwise. But I want to tell you that we do not have the suffering you have, we do not sin for ideological prejudice. We don't have any ideological prejudice... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u104	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u105	No, we don't! Do you know what we're worried about? Do you know what makes us different, sir? [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] Listen, Mr. Deputies, to the end. Do you know what makes us different? We are concerned about people and the results; you put the ideological prejudice in front of people and the results. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Now I would like to tell you that what I said is even a disheartening to members of the government that you support and that you are going to be on the panel today. You didn't read everything! In fact, it has an unfocused vision.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u106	You've reached your time, Mrs. Member. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u107	I will finish, Mr. President. So I want to tell you that there are more people in the panel at our conference, none of them related to the CDS, and that it will be very pleasant, because we do not actually sin because of this ideological prejudice, which, if you want, is already invited to be present and thus make contributions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u108	Mr Miguel Santos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u109	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, the health situation point in Portugal and, above all, the SNS is the following: lack of response in emergencies; lack of financial control and duplication in late payment delays; captivating as an instrument of budget cuts, in an encapsulated manner; hospitals and without resources; medium response times guaranteed in past surgeries; consultations with waiting lists of years, two and four years; investment at the lowest level of time; increasing conflict in the sector; and the lowest health budget, as a percentage of GDP since 2010. In the last two years, serious imbalances have been introduced in the National Health Service and in the health system and the result is in sight: there is a complete absence of reforms. Moreover, the response of the Government and the majority to the absence of reforms is: the reform of primary health care, working group; the hospital reform, working group; the relocation of Infarmed to port, working group; the model of application of moderate rates, working group; the strategy for the elimination of HIV/AIDS, working group; the framework of dentists in SNS, working group; the creation of a new motherhood in Coimbra, working group; the external evaluation of health policies, Mrs. Members, working group; the central hospital of Madeira, working group; the development of community care units, working group; the restructuring of the CODUs (Centro de Orientação de Distentes Urgentes) of INEM, a fully executive measure, working group;... [[Protests by PS Member Antonio Sales.]] ... national public health reform, working group;... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u110	It is appropriate to say: "They speak, they speak, and I see them not doing anything"!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u111	... to fight fraud in the SNS, working group ; to change the normal period for 35 hours, working group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u112	Sir, you've reached your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u113	Working group! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u114	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u115	I will finish Mr. President. Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, at the moment, there is a pronunciation of the ideologists on the left about what? Moderate rates! This morning we heard the Minister say that he does not move in moderate rates, they exist to moderate consumption. The problem is the response of primary health care, moreover, there are more than 60% of the free Portuguese. Mrs Deputy, it is about this assessment that I request your pronunciation and the CDS pronunciation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u116	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u117	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, from above, from the rostrum, said the CDS had a force. I would like to start by saying that the CDS, in the previous legislature, decided to enter the government and use the strength it had to destroy the National Health Service. Now, the PCP, not being in the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u118	Aren't you? Oh, my God! [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u119	... with its strength, it presents concrete proposals to solve the problems of the National Health Service, problems aggravated by the performance of the PSD and the CDS-PP in the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u120	All right! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u121	Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, while the strength the CDS had in the previous government exponentially increased the moderate rates, the CFP, without being in the government, has already contributed to their coming down. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] While the CDS used the strength it had in the previous government to make it difficult for patients to access the SNS, closing proximity services, the PCP has contributed, presenting proposals, for the reopening of those services, which the CDS and PSD have closed. While the CDS, with its strength, prevented many users from having access to medicines, the PCP, with its strength not being in the government, has made it possible for patients to access medicines.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u122	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u123	Mrs. Deputy said there are few professionals in the National Health Service. Mrs Deputy, with the strength she had, at the time of the PSD Government / CDS-PP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u124	What matters is now! It's now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u125	...has caused them to go out of the National Health Service temporarily. It is true that these professionals are missing today, but this happened because of the PSD/CDS-PP policy that forced them to leave because they cut wages, increased working hours and decreased the number of professionals in teams. [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u126	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u127	I conclude, Mr. President. The CFP, with its strength and without being in government, has put forward concrete proposals, which are currently in the State Budget, and it is necessary to give them realisation as they improve the public response and benefit the National Health Service. The concrete question I leave you with is: is the CDS available to accompany those that are the proposals that the CFP has entered into in the State budget, such as the enhancement and strengthening of primary health care, investment in hospitals, the hiring of doctors and the replacement of workers with links through the use of temporary work enterprises?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u128	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u129	I conclude, Mr. President. Is the CDS in fact willing and available to support this policy? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u130	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u131	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their questions and comments. Deputies Miguel Santos and Carla Cruz. Mrs Carla Cruz, I do not, in fact, resist saying, as I said, that you are repeating a mantra that is not with you, but in fact you are the ones that make this government action possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u132	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u133	Approve the Budget! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u134	All this noise that makes, for the result of maintaining these policies, is that of keeping what we describe and that the Portuguese know, that they are facts, and it is fact that we are talking about, your inconsequence and ambiguity is what the Portuguese do not understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u136	The facts are these, which are in this chart of the evolution of the total expenditure of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u137	They do not understand this idea that in the second, fourth and sixth years they want to support the government and that on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday they say these policies lead to bad results. What are we in after all? Oh, my God! [[PCP protests.]] I insist that the government is this, and it is this government that has not taken decisions two years ago, which was indeed well illustrated by Mr Miguel Santos, after what I said there, in that rostrum, by saying that the way to govern this government is actually to do working groups! [[PS and PCP protests.]] It is indeed an innovation, but it does not meet the needs of the Portuguese. More: when they announced that austerity was over, what do we see in terms of investment to health?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u138	We see the investment in hospitals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u139	Did you raise your investment against GDP? GDP has even increased, but — it is interesting! — we have no increase in investment, we have not exceeded 5, 4 %. Over the previous years, total expenditure on health has not increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u140	It's decreasing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u141	Where, then, are we in terms of political priority, which is not even reflected in the percentage of GDP? What I wanted to say here is that it is false that we are against the National Health Service — it is a terrible fallacy! — it is false that we have not put forward proposals for consensus, as I have already said. And, with regard to the moderate rates, you should say, in order not to demagogy and as all those who study the health system say, that are not the moderate rates that make it impossible for the Portuguese to access health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u142	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u143	Furthermore, you, who so much like to go back to the past to justify the mistakes of the present and of those who now have to make decisions, would have to see that it was precisely in the previous government, on a proposal from the Government, that the greatest extension of the tax exemption was made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u144	You know why? Because of a policy of impoverishment, which has led to poverty thousands and thousands of Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u145	Madam Member, do not exalt yourself. Therefore, in favour of intellectual honesty, I would have to say that moderate rates do not finance more than 1% to 2% of the National Health Service and they are certainly not at the heart of this discussion. Moreover, it is not the justification for the problems that this government is making grow and that it is not solving for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u146	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u147	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, we have indeed inefficiencies in public services, we have a government more concerned about deficit and debt, at the expense of the degradation of the National Health Service, and we have parties that support it and do nothing but proclaim it, but do not seek solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u148	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u149	The CDS has looked for them and presented them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u150	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u151	Mrs Carla Cruz is also invited to attend our conference. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u152	For a political statement, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is unacceptable to take concrete measures to respond to the many needs, difficulties and problems felt by people with disabilities and their families. Article 71. that of our Constitution determines that persons with disabilities fully enjoy the constitutionally enshrined rights, and that the State (...) must carry out a national policy of prevention and treatment, rehabilitation and integration (...) of persons with disabilities and support for their families, as well as take the task of effectively realizing their rights (...) and supporting organizations of persons with disabilities. in this article, alone, it is up to the fundamental rights of the disabled and the responsibility of the State to implement them. There is also the anti-discrimination law, which prevents and prohibits discrimination, « (...) direct or indirect, due to disability, in all its forms(...) », and which punishes « (...) the practice of acts which have resulted in the violation of any fundamental rights, or in the refusal or conditioning of the exercise of any economic, social, cultural or other rights». Portugal has signed and ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. As one of the States Parties, this obliges the State and binds all governments to take measures to ensure compliance with fundamental rights and freedoms. the 50 articles of the Convention define the responsibilities of States parties in matters such as employment, education, health, social protection, housing, mobility, access to justice, access to culture, access to sport, access to leisure, participation in social and political life. Specific responsibilities regarding the rights of women and children with disabilities are also defined. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These and other legal diplomas are fundamental, but as fundamental as what is written in the role is the existence of policies and concrete measures that have translated into everyday life what has been supported in the role for many years. Fundamental rights are denied to disabled people every day. When difficulties are perpetuated in access to employment with rights — both in the public and private sectors — when vocational training for people with disabilities is less than necessary and possible for it to correspond to the acquisition of knowledge, skills and competences for inclusion in active life, when situations of poverty and social exclusion are eternal and when social protection is manifestly insufficient fundamental rights are denied. Where human, material and pedagogical means are lacking in public school for the proper follow-up and effective inclusion of children and young people with special educational needs, when difficulties persist in access to health centres, hospital care, support products, essential therapies for follow-up, drugs and rehabilitation, when serious mobility problems persist—both in architectural barriers, which prevent the movement in spaces, in public and in access to public buildings, either in access to public and collective transport, with cases of scandalous discrimination—when, 20 years after the establishment of the Portuguese Gesual Language, there are communication barriers, such as the lack of gestual interpreters in public services or the need for better television accessibility conditions for deaf people, limiting and preventing access to public services and information, or when conditions of equal access to culture, sport, leisure, participation in social and political life are denied fundamental rights. When professionals working in this area are not properly valued, fundamental rights are denied to both professionals and people with disabilities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The dignity in the lives of people with disabilities is inseparable from the fulfilment of these rights. The CFP has repeatedly intervened with concrete proposals. We were the first party to intervene on independent life here in the Assembly of the Republic. We have put forward proposals for the promotion of vocational training for people with disabilities, believing that it is important to ensure their access to all types and levels of vocational training available, and this is a relevant principle that can guarantee equal rights and opportunities, including inclusion in active life. We have put forward proposals for the elimination of architectural barriers, for a path for the pairing of paralympic athletes to the Olympics, for the creation of a bag of gestal-language interpreters for public services and the enhancement of Portuguese gestual language. We asked about the need to ensure better conditions for access to social benefits for inclusion. We have defended and put forward proposals on the multi-use attestation and the need for its gratuitousness and the strengthening of human, material and pedagogical resources in the context of special education. We have put forward proposals for better social protection for workers injured in work. Intervention that we will continue to do and that we will continue to assume, presenting solutions and pointing out ways to be fulfilled so much that it is enshrined in many documents, knowing that the active participation of people with disabilities, their families and their representative organizations is essential for new achievements. The improvement of their living conditions and the fulfilment of their rights require cross-cutting and articulated measures. It requires that the State not resign itself from its responsibilities—as enshrined in the Constitution, as provided for in law and as enshrined in the Convention, which has been signed and ratified by the Portuguese State and which, therefore, binds all governments to act to comply with it. The CFP will be here, as it has always been, to build not a path of assistance, which represents a profound social retrocession, but, yes, a path of progress, a path of social justice, which is inseparable from the realization of a dignified life, an independent and autonomous life, an inalienable right of all and of each. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u154	The Bureau recorded the registration of four Mrs. Members for requests for clarification. How do you want to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u155	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u156	Mr Jorge Falcato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u157	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, we consider that there are and have been some effective advances in the policies in the area of disability. however, we also consider that there are contradictory attitudes in these policies, which stem from the fact that there is no disability strategy which, by chance, the Defence Committee for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities urged the Portuguese Government to present until April last year. Nine months have passed and we continue without a disability strategy. I believe that in his speech the lack of this strategy to articulate all the necessary interventions in the various areas in which it is necessary to intervene was made clear. The demonstration of this lack of strategy is that, in the allocation of social benefits for inclusion, there is a requirement that prohibition proceedings be brought against the recipients of this benefit. People with serious intellectual disability or multi-deficiency, to whom they refuse to open bank accounts, are being pushed into a situation of disability, of prohibition, at a time when we are in a process of revision of the Civil Code exactly to change the system of prohibition, which is completely contrary to what is provided for in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in particular in Articles 12. o is 28. o. We are practicing a violation of the Convention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u158	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u159	I will finish, Mr. President. What I want to know is the position of the Portuguese Communist Party in view of this clear violation of the rights of persons with disabilities and the need for a strategy for disability. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u160	Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late to all and to all. I welcome, of course, the theme chosen by the CFP for today's political declaration, through Mrs Diana Ferreira, the disability, which, for the Socialist Party, is a concern of every day. And it is not a simple concern, it is rather a concern translated into many actions, into many decisions that have improved the lives of thousands of people with disabilities or disabilities. And because, in reality, there are those who seem to have no memory of all the work done, I would like to remember, of course, some of the decisions that have effectively translated into such improvement. The subsidy was increased for disabled persons in the family allowance; the allowance for assistance to the third person was increased; the specific deduction at the IRS headquarters was increased for those with disabilities or descendants; the Inclusion Balcão was created; the social inclusion provision was created, which has three fundamental objectives, from then on, improving social protection for people with disabilities or disabilities, promoting the fight against poverty of these same people and constituting an incentive for labour participation and empowerment. The Socialist Party has successively said that the task is not completed and that it will not be while there is only one person with disabilities or disabilities who is not included in society. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u162	in this sense, Mrs Deficiencies, I would like to remind you that at the moment - and I remember, even what Mr Jorge Falcato has just mentioned, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities — if you are working on the Mechanism for Monitoring the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, within the framework of that same Convention. I believe that this is a process involving all political forces seated in the Assembly of the Republic and therefore it is also a commitment of all of us every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u163	In reply, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u164	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr Jorge Falcato and Mr Maria da Luz Rosinha have asked the questions they have raised and I would like to say from now on that, indeed, over several years, a path has been made in which rights have been achieved for people with disabilities, a path that is not disconnected from what was the struggle of these people, their families and their representative organizations. Despite this path, which has been made over several years, and also advances that have been achieved in recent years, particularly in strengthening social protection—especially after years, when during the PSD/CDS government has brutally cut into social protection— which is the fact that these advances and this path are still far from responding to the needs and problems felt every day by people with disabilities. The strengthening that exists in social protection is insufficient to respond to a set of needs that persist every day in the lives of people with disabilities and, of course, what is important to ensure, the way that it is necessary to do is to deepen this social protection but that it is not disconnected from the guarantee of other fundamental rights, such as the right to employment, in particular with regard to direct intervention in the public sector but also to take measures guaranteeing employment in the private sector. With regard to social benefits for inclusion — and the CFP had a concrete intervention that extended the scope of this benefit — what we have always said is that this social benefit at no time could mean less social protection or less conditions and rights for people with disabilities. Therefore, we understand that there can be no element, no obstacle, that is being used as an impediment to access to social benefits for inclusion. This provision is provided for in a diploma that is already issued and which has a set of access criteria, criteria which, due to the insistence of the CFP, have been extended, covering more persons with disabilities in the allocation of this social benefit, an intervention we made during the discussion of the State budget for 2018. Of course, we understand that there can be no reason, nor can there be instruments that prevent the access of people with disabilities to social benefits for inclusion. I would also like to strengthen the need for intervention that guarantees, in addition to the right to employment, the right to education and health, in fact constitutionally enshrined, because the fulfilment of these rights is also a condition for improving the living conditions of people with disabilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u165	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u166	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and the CFP Parliamentary Group on bringing this matter to the agenda. The last time we had an important record in the plenary on disability policy was, as you know, on the initiative of the CDS, and some of them were ready to vote at the end of last year, in particular measures related to work licences and also support, aid for disabled armed forces, measures which the CFP generally voted for, but at the end of last year we will suspend the vote to refer them back to this year. We hope that the CFP will maintain its position at the time of the general vote so that we can finally move on to this issue this year. I would like to say to you, Madam Member, that I believe that the agenda of this matter is of the greatest importance. As you know, last week we had the presentation in the Assembly of the report of the Mechanism provided for by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which he mentioned, and which is undoubtedly an unmistakable instrument and of the greatest importance so that we can work on the continuity of monitoring the fulfilment of the Portuguese State in a set of matters he has listed. Madam Member, I believe that we here in the Assembly of the Republic must have the capacity to assume responsibility and to say that the time has finally come to provide this mechanism with appropriations, particularly budgetary and financial, that are appropriate for its operation. This matter has been repeated. As you know, Mr. Jorge Falcato is a member of the Mechanism, and this also led to our discussion of this possibility, and I believe it is now the time. The CDS hopes that, instead of always calling for others, we can actually implement this measure and do so with the greatest urgency and with the budget allocation that is indeed required and necessary. Mr President, I shall finish by saying only that it is important that we overcome the party issue and the party debate. We know that the CFP has entered everything it considered essential in the State budget. All that was essential for your vote was entered in the State budget...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u167	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u168	...and the rest wasn't. Therefore, if it has not been, we now have to try to go beyond the gaps and fight here, in the Assembly of the Republic, to overcome the barriers to what is required for people with disabilities. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u169	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the United Nations Convention on the Law of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted in 2006 and ratified by the Portuguese State exactly in 2009, imposes on us the collective duty, as a society, to guarantee people with disabilities or inability to fully enjoy all rights, such as other citizens. And the PSD, I must reaffirm here, I fear so many times, is absolutely committed to building this society. Therefore, I would like to greet the Portuguese Communist Party for bringing this matter to debate and once again I would like to reiterate that, for the Democratic Social Party, these issues are always a reserve of unity and we are absolutely committed to finding consensus in order to give answers to these people who need it. That's our goal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u172	Mrs Diana Ferreira mentioned, and very well, some progress in this area, which the PSD has also recorded, but there is a long way to go that we cannot forget. And it was the honourable Member who said that strengthening social protection is still insufficient to respond to the many needs of these people. The Portuguese Communist Party cannot be shielded, because now it is also government and it has an obligation to answer for that, for all that is lacking to do. That is why I ask you, Mrs Commissioner, about the qualification and professional valorisation of disabled people, if you do not consider that there is a long way to go and if you do not consider that this is the lever and engine of action for the true integration of disabled people. I ask you why the CFP — well, today is Wednesday, normally the CFP is only from the Government on Friday and today it is doing the role of the Government —... [[Protests by PCP Members Carla Cruz and Paulo Sá.]] ... responds to the country as a government party, and must also respond to what has not yet been done under the accessibility law and under the public employment quotas for persons with disabilities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u173	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u174	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, the Portuguese Communist Party also has responsibilities and also responds to the country for which it has not been done. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u175	In reply, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u176	Mr President, I would also like to thank Mrs Sandra Pereira and Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia for their questions, and I would like to begin by saying that these words of concern, which were listed in these two interventions, are opposed to the concrete action of the PSD and the CDS when they were in government. This is because when you were in government, what you did, in fact, was cut into social benefits, was cut into special education, limiting and preventing the access of children and young people with special educational needs to full inclusive education. What you have done was to close public services, which, of course, harming workers and the general population, has worsened especially fragile social groups, as is the case with people with disabilities. This was your action, it is an action that speaks for itself about your concern with people with disabilities, because it was actually what they did, when they were in government. The CFP, not in the government, has already been able to present a very significant set of proposals that go exactly on a path of progress and social justice. In addition, I would like to recall that the PCP, having been the first party to present in this House a proposal for an independent life pilot project, saw this project rejected exactly by the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u177	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u178	This shows very well the concern that the PSD and CDS have with the guarantee of an autonomous and independent life for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u179	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u180	Good words, Mrs. Member, cannot hide the acts they practiced when they were in government, nor the attacks they made on the rights of disabled people. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Members Maria das Mercês Borges and Sandra Pereira.]] Mrs Deputie, not being in the government, the CFP presented proposals on the promotion of vocational training for disabled people, which said that it was necessary to evaluate the vocational training of disabled people and to construct responses so that this vocational training actually leads to a path of integration into the active life of disabled people, in order to guarantee that which is a fundamental right in the life of each and also in the life of disabled people, which is the right to employment, to employment with rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u181	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u182	We know that this must be a strange concept for you, because what you did, when you were in government, for four years, was exactly to undermine labour rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u183	You're saints!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u184	You can believe it! If we were to fool people like you cheated...!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u185	But we have done more, Mrs Deputies, in the budget of the proposed State for the elimination of architectural barriers. We also dedicate in the State budget proposed for the pairing of paralympic athletes to Olympic athletes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u186	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u187	We also managed to intervene, as I said, to ensure better conditions for access to social benefits for inclusion. We spoke about the freeness of the multi-purpose certificate, Mrs Deputy, so that, indeed, all people to it can have access, and we also proposed that all the legal documents that exist at this time may be considered to attest to the disability of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u188	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u189	We have proposed the exemption of costs for the victims of work, Mrs Deputie.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u190	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u191	I will finish, Mr. President. The institutional intervention heritage of the CFP and also the heritage of active intervention and struggle that the CFP has in this matter speak for itself and say exactly which side we are on: we are on the side of defending the fundamental rights of people with disabilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u192	For a political statement, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Knowledge is the basis of modern development. Creating value from knowledge means better living conditions for the current population and for future generations. Creating value from knowledge means adding competitiveness to the economy. Creating value from knowledge means development for Portugal, it also means knowing how to respond to global societal challenges, as mentioned in the European Innovation Scoreboard 2017 report, which I quote : « In times of profound technological and societal transformation, the competitiveness of the European economy and the well-being of European citizens depends more than ever on the ability of the industry to develop and market successfully innovative solutions ». This report serves as a warning: in Europe, the growth of innovation is apathetic and Portugal, a country of moderate innovation, is below the European average. This is the context and this is the starting point that needs to be changed. The Social Democratic Party has, in due course, presented six legislative initiatives relating to knowledge and value creation and is currently conducting a road map for higher education institutions, interface institutions, other public entities and companies in different districts of the country. In the ecosystem of national innovation, there are examples that should leave us proud of the way along, examples of extraordinary collaborative processes, co-creation between the academy and the business sector, which bring to Portugal investment, qualified employment, knowledge and wealth, examples that make us believe in the path we have always defended. Moreover, the roadmap has strengthened the relevance, merit and necessity of the proposals presented by the PSD, with regard to the appreciation of knowledge, and we find echoes about what we proposed about industrial property, employment of doctors, teaching career and approximation between academia and economy. The small number of doctors in the private sector or the insufficient relevance given to industrial property are signs that companies do not yet have the capacity to value investment and development that the future requires, but are also challenges for which the leaders of the scientific system are awakened. Unfortunately, direct contact with development actors also reveals, and confirms, the absence of a government action oriented towards the success of the appreciation of knowledge; reveals the concern about the investment in higher education and science, and in 2016 the total expenditure fell 1, 3 %, with the loss of capital and operating costs, which calls into question the leading research; reveals that, despite the successive and always deferred guarantees, the Government continues not to make available to higher education institutions the funds relating to 2017, having not fulfilled a contract signed in 2016 by the Minister of Science, in the presence of the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister; reveals that the FCT, the Science and Technology Foundation, has not yet transferred the scientific employment funds to the institutions, has not, in many cases, made them impossible. But this contact with development actors also shows that, at the planning level and in the regions, we are dealing with the problems arising from the policy of excessive centralism in the management of funds that has characterized this government, with complete coordination between safeguards, such as the mapping of scientific and technological infrastructures, and incompetence in the management policy, which determine that, with regard to the current Community framework, and more than two years back, the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees) have spent on zero science, or near zero values. This contact also reveals, in the economy, a worrying non-adherence of the government's speech to reality, for example, in the announcement of non-sensual support by companies and interface entities. The INTERFACE Programme of the Government has not reached the ground and, in too many situations, we have heard from the scientific and technological leaderships that this programme excludes its organisations for incomprehensible or at least unexplained reasons. This is the reality, these are the facts that cannot be denied. The Social Democratic Party does not agree and knows that, in order to ensure the development of the country, it is absolutely essential to cement our position in scientific, technological and social justice matters, the latter obtained through great achievements, many of them already in this century. The major transformations that arise from the evolution of knowledge are an undeniable challenge and represent an opportunity for countries such as Portugal, which have talents and competences that are recognized internationally. by placing on the parliamentary agenda the appreciation of knowledge, the PSD fights for a model of development that, caressing Made in Portugal, ambitions the invented in Portugal, a model of development that, encouraging it to do in Portugal, whether Portugal is seen as an intelligent country in the world. It is the responsibility of the Government to ensure that Portugal is prepared and, for this reason, it is not enough to say that it will mobilize, create synergies or launch programmes, it is necessary to ensure that further research is carried out, that the good experiences that the Portuguese have achieved, even in difficult times, will multiply. The Democratic Social Party believes that the government cannot waste the time. It is necessary to look at this cycle in an integrated way and, above all, to promote the economic value of knowledge, which is essential to know and want to call companies and entrepreneurs, as the main dynamizers of economic fabric and the production of wealth. Portugal has to take on a vision that ensures the generational future through clear and sustainable benefits of social, economic and improved people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u194	You've wasted your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u195	Finally, Mr President, saying that Portugal can count on the PSD to build the future, it is unfortunate that it is not possible to count on this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u196	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record the registration of four Members. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u197	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u198	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u199	Mr President, Mrs Margarida Mano, first of all, I would like to congratulate the PSD parliamentary bench on bringing the issue of science and the relationship between scientific production and technology with the business world, because it opens an important debate on the role of the academy in society. But it was precisely under this entrepreneurial narrative that assists the right-wing proposal, which, a few months ago, the PSD introduced into Parliament two bills that alter the statutes of university and technical teaching careers. in fact, with these proposals, the PSD does nothing more than pressure teachers of higher education to work as a bulldozer in companies, all this with the justification that scientific and technological production in the business and industrial world needed to be approximated. These proposals are not an insult to professionals and it is even curious that the PSD, which is so supportive of social consultation, has not been able to formulate a proposal that would be welcomed by workers' representative organisations. More: It is not just the unions that reject these proposals for changes to the status of the teaching career. The CNE itself, the National Council of Education, through its opinions, says the same with regard to each of the proposals and I quote : « (...) this amendment should not be accepted ». These opinions were adopted at the National Council for Education, with the votes in favour—and so on! — advice given by the PSD. In other words, it is the PSD itself that, in the National Council of Education, admits that its legislative production in Parliament is far from expectations. Mrs Margarida Mano, for her bench, in fact, everything is entrepreneurship: the right to knowledge is a market, the right to work is a market — and, preferably, a market that must be exploited — in general, the university is, for the PSD, a company and a factory of precariouss and workers who must work on the market in companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u200	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u201	The Block rejects this view, the National Council of Education rejects that view. Does the PSD maintain its proposals and intend to open a war with teachers and researchers? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u202	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u203	Mr President, Mrs Margarida Mano, do you appreciate the knowledge? Sure! The qualification of Portuguese, education at all levels of teaching, science and knowledge are issues on which the Socialist Party is also committed. As questions that do not push at the pace of the academic years, not even the years themselves, but at the pace of the generations, they raise a specific question as to the relationship between the majority and the minority, and I would like to make it clear. We are comfortable in this parliamentary majority, and we are comfortable because this government and this plural left majority have done well for the country, have made progress in the country and therefore, as it has been said, we are not looking for other partners. Nevertheless, in these structural and structural matters, we want to have the possibility of building productive convergences also with the opposition parties and, therefore, in the field of knowledge, we are available for this work. But, Madam Member, the PSD has come to speak of incompetence in the management of Community funds can only be an attempt to conceal the disastrous footprint they have left on this matter. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u204	This morning, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we had the opportunity, on another educational subject, to clarify the responsibilities of the PSD and also of the CDS in this area. But with regard to the value of knowledge, you have taken out of the scope of the Community funds, for example, scientific employment, which has been problematic, which has made a number of actions far more difficult,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u206	...that could be more easily and better funded than they are, because of your responsibility. Mrs Deputies, Mr Luís Monteiro has already mentioned here the opinion that the National Education Council gave almost unanimously on your proposals, the last time you came here to talk. I remember what I said about your proposals, but, Mrs Deputies, the National Education Council has been able to be even more destructive to your proposals than we had been here. Frankly! We are prepared to welcome, discuss and seek convergence, but we need to come up with structured proposals, we need to come up with proposals, we need to come up with proposals that are not mere announcements, that are not just broken proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u207	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u208	I conclude, Mr. President. Mrs Deputies, until it is completed and the OECD assessment will be presented in close proximity to these systems that have to do with the appreciation of knowledge, my question is very simple: will the PSD continue to present only open and timely proposals that deserve the rejection of all stakeholders, of all actors, of all agents, as happened the last time they came here, or will they try some more constructive and comprehensive approach? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u209	In reply, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u210	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Mr Luís Monteiro and Mr Porfirio Silva, the dynamic that they have put in their speeches and will certainly allow me to state what the PSD thinks about these matters. In fact, Mr. Luís Monteiro, we do not have a vision of a business society, as we do not have a vision of a statized society.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u211	They have no vision. Bridge! I'm registering!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u212	We have a vision of a real society, where there are companies, where there is a state, where there are several societal challenges and where democracy makes readings. And our reading is that higher education institutions, interface institutions, the whole scientific system, the market and society,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u213	They're supposed to be working on the stock market!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u214	... also in their quests for social justice, they are fundamental, which means that there is no triple helix, there is a quadruple helix, and we are here to help.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u215	They're supposed to be working on the stock market!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u216	Mr President, there is no work on the table, there is naturally paid work, there is a mission—and here is the bridge with which Mr Porfirio Silva said—of the higher education institutions, which is triple: it is a teaching mission, it is a research mission and it is a transfer of knowledge, appreciation mission, what we want to call it. And in this triple mission it is clear to the PSD — and that is why the PSD will not abdicate, finding echoes, contrary to what they say, in many institutions and in many actors of the system — that today a teacher may have a differentiated profile on the basis of the three missions, naturally contracted with the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u217	The profile was working at the counter!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u218	With regard to the management of the Community funds, as you have mentioned, I would like to say that it is very curious to say that. They usually look at 2015 and before 2015 — they forget the context and look only at the measures — but there is no more load-free example than what is said and what is done than the management of Community funds with this government. The government talks about decentralization, but from the point of view of managing Community funds, it has centralized everything! For example, a notice of a regional operational programme, which was previously decided by its chairman of the CCDR (regional coordination and development committee), today has to go to an inter-ministerial coordinating committee, which takes months. So we look at the present and the future, we do not look at the past, but, if we look at the past, we look at the last two years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u219	To request clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u220	Mr President, I should like to begin by welcoming the PSD for bringing this issue to debate — in fact, in a good tradition, I have already brought this issue to debate several times. The transfer of knowledge and its transformation into value presupposes that prior to that there is investment in the production of knowledge, whether production in fundamental science or applied science. Although the PS government is defined as the great science promoter and also here has turned the page, we find that the FCT, which is the main instrument of public financing of science, executed in 2016 less money than on the previous page in 2015, and we fear that in 2017 the situation is identical, or even worse. Therefore, there are several effects resulting from this lack of investment in science, even though it is propagated otherwise. I would like to put myself in a specific position, which concerns the FCT researchers. As you know, they are excellent researchers, internationally recognised, but whose contracts are ending — some have already finished and others will end in 1. the quarter—for the only reason that the government did not create conditions for its continued work in Portugal. Therefore, these best Portuguese researchers have no prospect of staying here, have no places, have no career and have no money to run their projects. I would like to ask Mrs Margarida Mano: does she think that, in these terms and with these examples, government policy sets out the basic conditions, minimum conditions for guaranteeing innovation and for this transfer of knowledge? Does the PS offer some credibility to present itself as the great promoter of science in Portugal? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u221	Also to ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Margarida Mano, about the discussion that the PSD has brought today, the expressions "knowledge society" or "knowledge-based value creation" are often used for the purpose of promoting a business area that is very desirable to private groups, who often question or use the general public interest, losing national resources. The truth is that in this discussion it is necessary to remember what was the political option of the PSD/CDS government, because the paradigm that this government tried to impose was always to subordinate scientific and technological production to the private market, providing the so-called "knowledge transfer" to the private market, making national research and development available to economic and financial groups to boost their profits at the expense of the National Scientific and Technological System, as well as public investment. This was the political practice they put on the table. Even because, as Mrs Margarida Mano has already acknowledged, the private effort in this matter is residual—and, we add, it has always been residual, because it was so much easier to take advantage of public resources, with those who could lend their hand in this regard.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u223	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u224	In fact, the vision that was an inseparable part of the path of destruction of the social functions of the State and of concentration of public resources in the private sector, in the grip of the development needs of the country, was exactly the path pointed by the PSD in the government and now also in the projects that brought to the discussion and that again here resumed. What the CFP proposes is an alternative policy based on increased public and private investment and a shift in training, research and technological development policy. We defend that it is necessary to build on existing scientific and technical capabilities and potential, to articulate the various dimensions of knowledge, research, development, innovation with industry and the other needs of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u225	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u226	I will finish, Mr. President. But when we talk about valuing knowledge and articulation with the productive sector, we have to ask, then, why is the PSD now so apparently concerned, because when the PCP, in the past legislature, proposed measures for the development, for example, of partnerships with micro, small and medium-sized enterprises or the establishment of a fund for business technological innovation—it is frightening! — the PSD voted against, and now the CDS too. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u227	In reply, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u228	Mr President, I begin by thanking Members Ana Rita Bessa and Ana Mesquita for the questions they have raised. I would also like to begin by asking questions about research on an issue which seems absolutely central to us. in our perspective, there was a time when higher education institutions could be in their ivory tower, could be financed by a state that was not a democratic state itself. That time is over, because today the creation of wealth is essential. There is no creation of wealth or creation of value without knowledge, no knowledge without cutting-edge research and the investigation of tip is very expensive. We know many experiences where it is mainly done by private people and where the State does not follow. What we think is that Portugal has unique conditions, because it has a competitive public research system, and that even by the mechanism of evaluation of teachers, it competes internationally. Therefore, the State has an obligation to regulate, invest and guide in the direction of public service. That is why we are surprised that the current government resigns from this role, reducing investment in science, reducing in particular... Furthermore, on the road we are carrying out, I heard more than once, I heard twice someone saying that the FCT is a mere administrative instrument, it is not a foundation, it has no scientific strategy, it has no independence. We can't agree anymore. One of the government's flags was scientific employment, which had, from the point of view of the Democratic Social Party, the demonstration and the corresponding support: we voted against some things that seemed unacceptable to us and we voted in favour of others. Therefore, scientific employment is an important flag, but scientific employment is not a strategy for research, it is not a strategy for Portugal. This is essential for us. There must be employment, but there must be scientific employment not today but in five years and in 10 years and, as the government is acting, it seems to us that this will not happen in the short term. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u229	For a political statement, Mr Pedro Coimbra, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party held its Parliamentary Days in the Coimbra district on 22 and 23 on the theme « Proximity, Transparency and Decentralization », a relevant topic in the current political context. on the first day, Monday, we moved to the municipalities of the districts of Coimbra, Leiria and Viseu, which were hit by the disaster of the fires of 2017. We had the opportunity to once again see the violence with which human lives were reaped, destroyed houses, devastated companies, incinerated agricultural and forest properties and burned memories. It was a working day dedicated to listening, especially listening to who was most affected, but we also heard autarchs and associations. Hear to decide accordingly, helping to solve problems. Since last October's fire, only three few months have passed. In three months it is impossible to do everything, but much has already been done. We have the clear notion that the responsibility to rehabilitate and give hope is imposed. We have carried out these visits on the intransigent defense of populations, businesses and territory. on these Parliamentary Days, we also wanted to point out the solidarity of the Portuguese people and pay our tribute to the victims and their families. As I said earlier, we are aware that there is much to be done and probably also something to be corrected, but we were also proud to check the many things that have already been done: thousands of services of proximity, solving the problems of people in mobile areas; support for families with economic shortage, in cases of first need; multiple challenges of preparation and adequacy of public infrastructure in the affected areas; more than EUR 5 million of compensation already paid for 27 of the dead victims; about 300 houses already rehabilitated, involving investments around EUR 2, 5 million; close to EUR 27 million allocated to businesses, with a view to restoring economic activity; 204 applications already submitted by employers and EUR 5 million already approved of financial support for the maintenance of more than 1800 jobs; nearly EUR 9000 people in vocational training and EUR 1600 unemployed for active employment measures; around EUR 600 million for farmers; We can say with absolute certainty that there is a gigantic recovery process going on in the country. I am sure that this will result in more social cohesion, more development and more competitiveness. A bad contribution to all this will be, yes, to make fires a political weapon of fire, without respect for those who suffer, causing blockades, background noises and difficulties which will certainly not bring us anything positive.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u232	The strengthening of the support mechanisms for which we fight and the urgent need to intervene efficiently and diligently in the application of the means, in the certainty that we are on the right path to achieve better results, is evidence that we have seen. If it is true that we want to quickly overcome the current difficulties, it is also reasonable to have expectations, for the ongoing reforms, that disasters of this nature do not repeat as often as we have seen in recent months, much less with the dimensions achieved. To that end, a close and efficient State is fundamental. That is always what the Socialist Party has defended and that is what it defends in its own identity matrix. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in these Parliamentary Days we have also made a rich, open and plural debate—as it is indeed customary in the Socialist Party—on transparency in Portuguese public life, an issue that has always been prioritized by the Socialist Party. I recall that it was on the initiative of the Socialist Party that, in 2016, the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions was established. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was also on the Parliamentary Days of the Socialist Party these last two days that we discussed another very relevant issue for us, which is decentralization. The reform of decentralization is undoubtedly a fundamental aspect of State reform. The National Association of Portuguese Municipalities has already marked it as absolutely priority. The Government has been very clear and decentralization is included in its Programme. It is now up to the other political parties to accompany the Socialist Party in this reform, for the benefit of Portuguese and for the good of Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Term, saying that we are proud to govern the Socialist Party. Economic growth is a concrete reality. The Portuguese also recognise it, as it is known, as many of our international partners do. There is a climate of social peace. We know that the road is still long and narrow, but we want to continue to do so, giving our best. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u233	Mr. Pedro Coimbra, you have signed up to request clarifications of three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask you to inform the Bureau of how you intend to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u234	I am replying together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u235	To ask for clarification, you have the floor, first of all, Mr Pedro Soares, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Coimbra, first of all, wanted to greet the Socialist Party for the realization of its Parliamentary Days. We followed the days through the press and listened carefully to their speech, telling us what had happened, and we liked to make two or three considerations on this matter. Of course, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Days were not just of observation, certainly that they planned the Socialist Party's action for the future, and that is what matters most to us, because referring to everything that has already been done in terms of infrastructure, compensation to victims' families with regard to rural fires is positive, it is important, given that both local economies and people, families expect it to be so and with the greatest urgency. however, Mr. Pedro Coimbra, it is essential that we realize that in these rural fires there were causes, there were reasons, and that is why it is important to attack. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Member whether concrete measures have been envisaged regarding what, from our point of view, is essential, in particular, in relation to the attack on the structural causes of this type of problem, the establishment and regulation of forest management units, the definition of the tax benefits and State support for the creation of new forms of forest mini-fund organization, the cleaning of forests, the definition of the construction of the primary network. What concrete measures, particularly those in the political debate and the agenda, do you think the Socialist Party should take?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u237	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u238	I'm done now, Mr. President. With regard to decentralization, he spoke of consensus and said he hoped for consensus in the Assembly of the Republic, but I must say, Mr, that in this matter we still have a great distance until we reach these consensuses. It is not defined what the Socialist Party thinks about the process of regionalization and about ensuring the universality of the rights of the social state in the process of decentralization, particularly in education and health, nor is it defined what it thinks about the proposed law of local finances, fundamental changes, so that we can pronounce ourselves on the process of decentralization, and finally on measures to effectively achieve more financial autonomy for the parish, so that they themselves can acquire and assume greater competence in a process of decentralization. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u239	Also to ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Coimbra, I would also like to congratulate the Socialist Party on the implementation of its Parliamentary Days and to mention two aspects which it has focused on. The first concerns the situation of the fires that devastated our country in 2017 and the necessary support for the affected and victims of these fires, as well as the need to rebuild and guarantee the recovery of the productive potential of these regions. But what we find is that, in fact, reality is a little more difficult than what you have brought here, because there is unequal treatment. on the ground, there are farmers who have made investments and received support and there are those who do not know exactly what these same support is intended for. I would like to mention a very specific question. The PCP Parliamentary Group brought to the Assembly of the Republic a bill, which was voted on and is today a law, to support the victims of the fires that broke out in June last year. We proposed that this law be extended to all of the councils of our country that suffered from the fires last year. This proposal by the Portuguese Communist Party was not approved, but we believe it is fundamental and would give the answer that is not being guaranteed to the citizens today. Therefore, I once again appeal to the need for equal treatment for fire situations. The second aspect is about decentralization. First of all, if we want to decentralise, if we want proximity, a first proposal which I leave here, and which we have been putting here for a long time, is that the phregies which have been extinguished by the previous Government are reponsible, a proposal which we have already brought to the House of the Republic and which the Socialist Party has also rejected. What is proposed is that people's will be repositioned wherever the parish is. Even in the fires situation, we saw the importance of the proximity of the parish voters to support the populations. Secondly, when it comes to decentralization, on the part of the Socialist Party, a fundamental issue is excluded and is contained in our Constitution, which is the creation of administrative regions. This is a fundamental issue for the development of our country and for decentralization. Thirdly, and to conclude, I ask: if the objective is to transfer competences and decentralise, what are the conditions that the Government proposes for its exercise by the authorities? It is that everything we know about the government's proposals leaves us with a lot of concerns. We have already asked the Government — and it was approved in 11. the Commission of the Assembly of the Republic — the elements on the concrete impact of each measure, but we do not know them, this information has not yet arrived.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u241	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u242	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u243	He counted on the distraction of the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u244	I will even conclude, Mr President, by referring only to one question: if the means are not guaranteed, if we are talking about a number of areas in which there are numerous problems in the country today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u245	Mrs. Member, cooperate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u246	... this is not a transfer of competences, but rather a transfer of charges and of the hateful, of what the government wants to de-responsibility and which is its competence, as are the fundamental issues of education and health. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u247	My distraction, I wanted you to say! You now have the floor, unprecedented with regard to time, Mrs Berta Cabral, also to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u248	Mr President, I hope to have some tolerance on your part, despite your initial remark. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by greeting the PS for the achievement of its Parliamentary Days and also for the themes chosen for the debate. Mr Coimbra has brought a number of issues, but I would like to make some considerations and two previous notes on the issue of decentralization. The first note is that the PSD has been, in this matter, always in the front line, considering that it is a very important reform of the State, a national design and, in this sense, I want to say here - I want to say - there is evidence given both in this Parliament and in the past. The second note is that in recent months, since the autarchics, the PS and especially the government have made a narrative in order to pass the idea that decentralization does not advance or is delayed by the definition of the PSD. Nothing more false! Nothing more false, because the government has been late — as well as they remember — in the presentation of the proposal for a basic law on decentralization. The Government is late in submitting the proposed local finance law and is very late in delivering it to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing of the studies and preparatory work requested by the PSD more than six months ago, and as has now been referred to by the PCP Member, also required by the CFP. Having made these previous notes that I consider very important, I mean that the PSD is in this process as it has always been: with the same direction and with the same determination.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u249	That's terrible!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u250	We always advocate decentralization, believe in the virtualities of a power of proximity, we know that municipalities can exercise new competences more effectively and more efficiently, but we also know that they can only do so with more resources than financial resources, both material and material.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u251	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u252	That is why we are here, to defend the municipalities, which are the weakest link in this process. It is up to Parliament to ensure that decentralization is not de-responsible to the government, which would like to throw its responsibilities on top of others. [[PS protests.]] Right now, the municipalities are challenging a government law that passes to the municipalities...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u253	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u254	... the responsibility of cleaning the forests, the law with which the municipalities do not agree. [[PS protests.]] We can't...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u255	Did you hear the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u256	I am sorry, Mr President, but I would like to have the same tolerance as my background, even more so because the PS is in dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u257	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to cooperate with the direction of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u258	Mr Coimbra, I would like to ask whether or not the law of local finances is an essential document, a fundamental part in this process of decentralization. By the way, as you are so well informed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u259	Would you like to work together in the right direction?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u260	... I also ask when delivery in this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u261	To reply, Mr Pedro Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would begin by thanking Mr Pedro Soares and Mrs Paula Santos and Mrs Berta Cabral for the questions they asked us, trying me to answer all the questions together. I would like to point out from now on that, unfortunately, I know the reality of the fires well and have experienced the calamity of the fires of 15 and 16 October. So, I am witness to the difficulties, I am witness to the terrible scenario that the populations have lived and I am witness to the destruction scenario that the entire territory has suffered in those two days. I am also the first to acknowledge that it is not possible to solve, from one moment to the other, a problem that has been created and aggravated for decades, with the abandonment of the territory and with the depopulation of part of the interior of Portugal. In fact, it should be remembered that it was during the last right-wing government, led by the PSD and with the CDS to integrate it, that the highest rate of emigration was experienced, the highest rate of depopulation of the interior since the 1960s, when a whole generation of Portuguese emigrated. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u263	It was these young men and women who pushed out of the country who left much of the territory to abandon and neglect as we find it today, unfortunately. Therefore, Mr Pedro Soares and Mrs Paula Santos, we are naturally committed to finding solutions. We have had a reformist spirit and we have had a spirit to find solutions to the problems we have faced. It must also be acknowledged that, for every problem we identify and solve, we face a new and different problem from the one we knew. All of us, legislators, have not yet been able to have the imagination and flexibility to find once and for all a solution to all the problems we face in the territory and in our populations. It is with this spirit that we want to continue, that is, in a committed and committed way, supporting those who need the most at present, but also restructuring and launching reforms that, we are sure, will last in time so that we can create a better, more coherent and fairer territory. On decentralization, I wanted to say that I trust the authorities and trust the Portuguese authorities. I think this is a very decisive, very important, very structural step in the reform of the Portuguese State and it is certainly a reform that will bring us more cohesion, more efficiency and more efficiency in the management of public resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u264	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u265	I shall conclude, Mr President. I am very surprised that Mrs Berta Cabral is not following the positions of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u266	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u267	...and be perfectly apart from the position of the Portuguese autarchs in defending this reform. Moreover, it is also strange that you here have stated what you said, not clearly and clearly expressing support for this reform of the Socialist Party Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u268	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u269	...for the benefit of the Portuguese and also of the authorities throughout the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u270	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are now in a position to move to intervention under Article 76 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure. To that end, Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, I want to talk about regional asymmetries, depopulation and ageing that affect broad ranges of the national territory. Today, I want here to bear witness to the raw and harsh reality that continues to live in my electoral circle. Today, I want to talk about the abandonment to which this government voted the White Castle district. The projections of the INE ( Instituto Nacional de Statística ) expect that, in a medium scenario between 2012 and 2060, the aging rate in Portugal increases from 131 to 307 elderly for every 100 young people and everyone believes that this scenario, to be happening, will surely be catastrophic for the whole social structure. It was also the INE that reported that the aging index was increasing, which had increased by 95% of the Portuguese municipalities between 2011 and 2016, with a decrease in only 15 of the 308 municipalities. The worsening of the aging rate in that period reached mainly municipalities of the sub-regions of the Northern Interior and Central — Beers and Serra da Estrela, Beira Baixa and Medio Tejo, with emphasis on the municipalities of Vila de Rei, Oleiros and Penamacor, of the district of Castelo Branco, which recorded an increase in more than 100 elderly people per 100 young people. In addition, the INE highlighted the circumstance of the aging index being higher in rural territories than in urban territories, verifying the franc to accentuate this type of asymmetry in the districts of Castelo Branco, sub-region of Beira Baixa and in the Lands of Trás-os-Montes. This disparity between rural and urban regions was particularly intense in the sub-region of Beira Baixa, 682 elderly for 125 young people, and in the Beiras and Serra da Estrela, 423 elderly for 100 young people. in my electoral circle, the council that presents the worst index is that of Vila Velha de Rhodão, with absolutely impressive 803 elderly for every 100 young people. Ladies and gentlemen. Deputies, Vila Velha de Ródão, county of Castelo Branco district, had in 1940 close to 10,000 residents, having been losing consecutively population since that time. In 2015, there were only 3304 inhabitants there. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what can be done in a municipality with 3304 inhabitants, a demographic curve coming down consecutively almost 80 years ago, and 803, 9 elderly people per 100 young people? It happens that the phenomenon of population reduction reaches not only this municipality but the whole district as a whole, there is not a single municipality that has managed to maintain the number of inhabitants it had in 1940. Penamacor lost 71% of the population, Vila de Rei lost 63%, Proença-a-Nova now has less 58% of the people and the champion is Idanha-a-Nova, who today has less than 74% of the people who had in the 40s. with regard to the economy, all the municipalities of the district of Castelo Branco have a per capita purchasing power below the national average, and Idanha-a-Nova and Proença-a-Nova do not reach 70 % and Sertan and Belmonte can only reach 75 %. Penamacor already has the lowest purchasing power: 60% of the national average. Mrs. Members, the per capita purchasing power in Lisbon is 258% higher than that of Penamacor and in Porto is 183% higher than that of Penamacor. I refer to a small example that says a lot: last week, one of the themes of local newspapers was the struggle of a parish against the closure of the single Multibank box that exists within a radius of many kilometers. After almost everything has been closed inside, now the time has come to close things that urban populations have as right. Mrs. Members, think of what it is to live without decent public transport, without multibank boxes, without the agencies of the General Deposit Box, which are closing, without a family doctor and what it is to live away from the children who have left and the grandchildren who are coming less and less. Solutions this government does not have, but the problems are there, there is no way to ignore them. Being the price of interiority to be charged to the regions many decades ago, today it is the whole country that is paying it. We see the fires this autumn, which almost reached the beaches, after they burned a formidable area of the Pinhal de Leiria, then burned a formidable area of the abandoned interior. If nothing is made of concrete, it can only get worse. It is regrettable that there are no real positive discrimination measures for low-density territories. While the PSD/CDS government sought to save the country from bankruptcy in which it was placed by the government of José Socrates, the PS washed its hands as Pilates and promised the full mouth, in the district of Castelo Branco, that when it was once again government, it would immediately end the tolls in A23. The question is this: have the PS or the Government of the Left fulfilled? They didn't do it! In fact, they first increased the tolls and then made the pantomime of the discharges. After all, it's all the same. While the former PSD Government renegotiated contracts for public-private road partnerships, having made savings of almost EUR 3000 million — UTAO figures, an independent entity, I wonder what the PS was doing. I was washing my hands like Pilate and promising to finish the toll. And what has the PS done since it got to the government? Keep the tolls, whistle to the side and wash your hands like Pilate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is this: for the coming year, in the campaign of the legislators, will the PS promise again to finish the tolls in the district of Castelo Branco? And they're waiting for people to believe? Let's talk about roads now. in the district of Castelo Branco and as regards the roads, there are two main road axes for the development of the whole region: the IC6, between Coimbra and Covilhã, and the IC31, which will connect A23, in the area of Castelo Branco, the Termas de Monfortinho, which will be the shortest way between Lisbon and Madrid. Also in the election campaign, the PS promised to carry out these two works, but, past more than half of the legislature, it is clear at this time that these promises have also fallen into broken basket. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all the promises made by the PS during the election campaign have fallen into broken basket! The question is this: for the coming year, in the campaign of the legislators, will they promise again to complete the IC6 and IC31 in the district of Castelo Branco? And they're waiting for people to believe? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco had in 2015 a budget over EUR 24 million, and with this government, it had 20 million in 2017, i.e. minus 4 million. Mrs. Members, "who loves is the one who cares" and the PSD, with the PS troika behind the back, took care of more. The University of Beira Interior ( UBI ) received by student in 2017, €3500, less than any other in the country, the University of Algarve received more € 1000 per student and the University of Évora received more € 1500 per student. Why? Why does the current government not like the White Castle district? Why does the majority insist on penalizing this piece of interior and those who still live there? Do students from other universities need more money than UBI students? Why? It has to be explained. Across the interior there is no nuclear medicine centre, and Cova da Beira is the region of the country that is further away from a hospital with this service. The patients of Covilhã and Fundão who currently perform chemotherapy — and are close to 100 — have to go to Coimbra with a three-hour martyrdom on each side. It is not human to force a patient to make three hours of travel after having done chemotherapy, but it is the policy of this government. The PSD has always been concerned with the problems of interiority, having presented at the beginning of the Legislature a bill that aims to create a status of low density territories, a framework law to start promoting territorial cohesion effectively.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u272	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u273	After the troika, it was time to do it. And what did the left ones do? They moved, because the idea wasn't theirs. One day at night, they wrote on a paper a few steps taken to realize that they did not do anything. They announced them to the four winds and rested. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed that some measures from this Government to the interior are no more than caricatures. Do military exercises on the inside? Take the Old Town of Rhodes or Belmonte an opera or a play of the Teatro D. Maria will not rejuvenate the population nor create opportunities for young people. Recently, the government had even failed to say that it was almost everything done in its internal measures. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, almost nothing has changed inside and what has changed, has changed to worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u274	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u275	I'm done now, Mr. President. As long as the government is walking, the interior continues to fade, to lose population and to grow old. People still live in Oleiros, in Sertã, in Vila de Rei, in Proença, in Covilhã and in Castelo Branco, people who are also Portuguese, who have to have the same rights and opportunities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u276	Mr President, three of us have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u277	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, Mr Álvaro Batista, at the beginning of his speech, I was pleased by the tone of it because for the first time a member elected by the PSD spoke of the interior and apparently of the defense of the interior could even be something positive. It is only that he quickly undoes everything that he could have in a positive way. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, it is necessary, yes, discharge, as I said. It is necessary to discard and, moreover, to be dememorized, because to say that the asymmetries, depopulation and abandonment of the interior are due to a two-year-old government is to completely ignore what has happened and what has been done by the PSD and CDS government, its government, the government that you supported, which, yes, impoverished the country, impoverished the interior and people had to emigrate again, as my father emigrated in the 1960s. That, yes, stays in everybody's skin, and the people who are listening to me know what I'm talking about. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] I also want to tell you that there are not only negative aspects. Unfortunately, there are negative aspects, but there are also many positive aspects, and you do not say so. It seems there are some PSD councils and other PS councils with different realities, but it's not like that. The PS leads most of the authorities and these authorities but also the others fight against these adversities. However, they have a government that leaves a mark for the interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u278	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u279	I shall conclude, Mr President. And this mark can be seen in the State budget this year. That is: investment in the Lower Beira Line ; investment in protected areas ; yes, the promise to continue the way down to the price of tolls; investment in education, which you stopped, as did the investment in the remodelling of schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u280	Mrs. Deputy, you must even conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u281	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that everything that has been done in the interior has the mark of the Socialist Party. Unfortunately, when you arrive at the government, you undo everything, you end everything and the backwardness is happening again. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u282	Mr Pedro Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u283	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Álvaro Batista, I would like to congratulate you on bringing to Parliament the debate on interiority, the processes of extreme demographic loss, desertification of the interior territories and, a fundamental issue, territorial equity. Territorial equity has been one of the major problems of our democracy—in fact, it is a problem of democracy—to give conditions equal to those living in the interior and those living on the coast, those living in rural territories and those living in urban territories. Mr President, I cannot but ask you a question, with all honesty and transparency. I would like to ask you where it was in the four years that there was a majority PSD / CDS, which did not contribute anything to reduce territorial asymmetries in our country. We know, on the contrary, that all of them have worsened, that the interior territories have continued to lose demographic muscle, that they have continued to lose economic muscle, that it is increasingly — and this is serious — the interiority reaches the coast, that is, there are more and more territories in which the demographic criteria, the economic criteria, the criteria for loss of living conditions have fallen seriously. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this has to do with a fundamental issue first. It is necessary to guarantee living conditions, conditions of access to services, the populations of the interior and we all know the role that most PSD/CDS played in this matter: closing courts; closure of health centres; elimination of phleges...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u284	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u285	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is objectively true. And more: as you said, and well, there is growing ageing in the territories of the interior — indeed, it is a demographic problem throughout the country, but with particular incidence within the interior — and we also know the role that the majority PSD/CDS had, for example, with the cutting of pensions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u286	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u287	... that ended up seriously affecting the populations of the interior, also by this way. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, I would just like to conclude by saying that what is needed inside is to create employment, that is to create living conditions for these populations, that is to create access to the public services network, which is fundamental for quality of life in these populations, and that is a fundamental design. For this, it is necessary to give political decision-making capacity to these populations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u288	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u289	... therefore, there must be serious decentralization in our territories too. It is not enough to say that we want better roads, because if we stay alone on the roads, what will happen is that this will help to drain more and more populations from the interior to the coast, and that is not what we want. We want better living conditions, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u290	Mr President, please cooperate with the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u291	I'm done, Mr. President. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u292	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u293	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Batista, the regional asymmetries, which are a reality in our country and which have become worse, are responsible. Those responsible are PS, PSD and CDS who over the decades have opted for policies that have led to the destruction of the productive apparatus, which have led to the destruction of employment, which have led to the closure of public services and which have effectively led to the abandonment of the interior by thousands and thousands of people, because there were no solutions for their lives, the result of these policies that have been implemented. In fact, the honourable Member, like the PSD and the CDS, has recently sought to do a whitening exercise of those who are their responsibilities. During the four years that your Government has been ruling — from 2011 to 2015 — I ask you what your government has done to maintain in the region schools and health centres, what it has done to eliminate the tolls in A23, what it has done to prevent the closure of public services, what it has done to go further in accessibility, in particular the construction of the IC6. Mr President, not only has he done nothing, but he has further aggravated the situation of the people living in these localities and in this region. Mr Deputy, your party, as well as the political parties of the Assembly of the Republic, voted two months ago a proposal from the CFP for the elimination of tolls in the former SCUT and, if not, the PS and PSD voted against. The proposal could have been approved and today there are no more tolls in the former SCUTs, but because of the PS and PSD, they continue to be charged and creating numerous difficulties for populations and businesses in that region.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u294	Mrs. Member, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u295	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President, on behalf of the IC6, let me tell you the following: it was your Government that considered that this route was not a priority when the CFP has been proposing its construction for years and years. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say the following: the honourable Member said that he closed virtually everything inside. It is, but his party was the one that closed most, when, by extinguishing the fragesias in our country, he closed the fragesia joints. [[Protests by PSD Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Mr President, these are not, in fact, serious measures that contribute to regional development and to combating depopulation and desertification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u296	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u297	Indeed, a policy that breaks with your right-wing, de-investment options that only led to the degradation of living conditions and the desertification of that region of the country is needed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u298	To reply, Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u299	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Hortense Martins, Mr Pedro Soares and Mrs Paula Santos for her questions because they allow me to clarify a number of questions. Mrs Hortense Martins, I must say that I understand your discomfort. It is that, after you have been promising in writing to the populations of the White Castle district that, if it were government, you would do everything and something else and then you could not do anything, it is clear that you have to turn away from reality, and that is clearly what happens to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u300	All right! [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u301	Mrs. Deputy, you promised everything and something else in the White Castle district and the Socialist Party, your Socialist Party has so far done nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u302	You won the elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u303	As much as you come here to say the opposite, the people who are there, who continue to live in that district, know that the Socialist Party has been a complete fraud. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Soares wanted to say that he has an absolutely extraordinary selective memory.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u304	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u305	So what about what you closed during Prime Minister José Socrates' government, your coalition partner?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u306	We weren't Socrates coalition partners!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u307	By the way, tell me: with your government, with this Government of the associated left, what has so far opened in the interior? [[PSD applause.]] News from the newspapers says otherwise. Look: They've closed agencies from the General Deposit Box ; they're closing mail stations all over the country. These are concrete examples. [[PS and BE protests.]] They're even closing the Multibank boxes. [[Continuation of PS and BE protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you can realise that these problems do not exist, but they do exist and the problems that the previous government has resolved have been left by a left-wing government. to the left-wing gentlemen who are crying out here as if they had no problem with what is happening, I mean the following: if the interior were important to the Communist Party, you would have included the inside in the Government Programme, which they signed with the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u308	We did not reject the proposals, but you did.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u309	This is because you didn't sign something with the Socialist Party and left the interior for later, and then you didn't come here to make pantomimes that, you know, the Socialist Party itself doesn't accept. If you cared about the inside, you would have put the inside as your first priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u310	You voted against it, it wasn't the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u311	Therefore, it is time for you to decide. Will they continue to be careful or will they finally find something concrete for the inside? [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] The letter was placed on the table by the PSD and is called: status of low density territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u312	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u313	I'm done now, Mr. President. This is a basic law for the interior. Whether or not there is a framework law in the interior or do you want to keep track of it, without doing anything? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u314	Mrs. Members, let us turn to point three of our agenda, which is from the assessment of petition No 315 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the extension of the deadline for delivering the IRC Model 22 Declaration ( Maria Filomena Martins de Oliveira Grimalde Simões and others) together with draft resolution No 1259 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the early completion of the review process of the fiscal calendar by reorganizing the delivery deadlines of the different tax declarations and by defining appropriate conditions for the making available of the completion and submission of such declarations ( CFP ). To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, the more than 4000 subscribers of the petition today under discussion, who request the extension of the deadline for delivering the declaration of the IRC Model 22 until 30 June 2017. Although, for obvious reasons, this request can no longer be addressed, the concerns underlying the petition remain all the time, since the deadline for delivering the IRC Model 22 was not just a problem in 2017, it is in fact a recurring problem which, in the opinion of the CFP, needs to be resolved within the framework of a global reorganization of the fiscal calendar. It is in fact in this sense that the CFP today brings up a draft resolution that recommends to the Government the early completion of the review process of the fiscal timetable. The concerns and intervention of the CFP on this matter have not emerged now, suddenly. in fact, for many years the CFP has been defending the need to reorganise the fiscal calendar, adapting it to the needs of taxpayers, in general, and certified accountants, in particular. With the previous government, the PSD and the CDS, we found ourselves totally indifferent to this problem. It is not worth the parties now to come to tears of crocodiles, being very concerned about the problems of certified accountants and even, as the CDS did in the State Budget, to present arsonous proposals to respond to some of these problems. When they were in the government they were able to act, but they didn't want to do so, so nothing they say now can whiteen that option. Two years ago, when the current government took possession, we asked you about the availability for a reorganization of the delivery times of the different tax declarations. at that time, the government did not recognize the existence of problems with the fiscal calendar and consequently did not express availability for its review. By continuing to contribute to the resolution of the problem, the CFP was insisting on this issue and in mid 2017, the Government was available to finally review the fiscal calendar, requesting information from the Tax Authority, to start this process, and inviting the Order of Certified Accountants to submit a proposal for reorganization of the tax calendar. However, the PCP was aware that the Order of Certified Accountants, as well as other accounting professionals, presented proposals in this regard. Thus, with the decisive intervention of the CFP, a review process of the fiscal calendar was initiated. It is this process that must now be completed expeditiously and that is the proposal that the CFP brings today the debate, by recommending to the Government the early completion of the review process of the fiscal calendar, by reorganizing the delivery times of the different tax declarations and by defining appropriate conditions for the availability of the applications for the completion and submission of these declarations, in order to overcome the recurring problems identified by organizations and associations of accounting professionals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u316	Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the certified accountants, in particular the subscribers of this petition, and I also welcome the draft resolution of the CFP. The schedule of tax obligations is tight, they are not evenly distributed throughout the year. The accountants have submitted several proposals, either through their professional order or through other associations, in order to solve the problem with a more homogeneous arrangement. The Left Block has accompanied these concerns, but the proposals have found resistance by the tax administration. This problem becomes much more complicated whenever there are delays in the provision of the computer tools necessary for the fulfilment of the reporting obligations. The consequence is the shortening and overlap of the deadlines for the delivery of the declarations of the different taxes, leading to the congestion of the Finance Portal. Accountants have to adjust to these difficulties, looking for the times in which the Finance Portal responds in better conditions, i.e. times that are not normal working hours, at night or at the end of the week. All this set of situations causes tiredness, stress, errors in declarations and therefore more work. This is a recurring situation with the annual declarations, in which the availability of the tools does not happen with the necessary advance for the planning of the work of the accountants, so that they organize their lives. Accountants are people, they have their own lives, they have their own families, they have children, they have the right to a holiday, they cannot have their lives suspended waiting for the release of the tools out of time by the tax administration, they cannot be forced to adjust to all delays. In particular with regard to simplified business information ( IES ), which has no implications for the clearance or delivery of taxes to the State, there is no reason why its timetable should not be adjusted when there are delays. It is a purely statistical declaration and, despite having the term « simplified » in its name, it has been amended every year and added new contents and attachments, i.e. it can all be less simplified. The legislative amendments that determine the adaptation of the computer tools for the delivery of tax declarations take place with the approval of the State budget, i.e. more than one year in advance of the time when these declarations have to be delivered. It is therefore not understood that computer tools are no longer available in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u318	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u319	In conclusion, Mr President, I would say that there is a rule that we consider fundamental and that must be respected: if there is a delay in the release of the computer tool, the deadline for the fulfilment of the corresponding obligation must be updated, while respecting a minimum period of time between these two moments so that the accountants can organize their work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u320	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin by welcoming the initiative of the petitioners we are discussing today, which is, of course, a very important issue for taxpayers and accountants. In fact, through petition No 315/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), more than 4000 petitioners have requested the extension of the delivery period of the IRC model declaration 22. And they do so primarily because it is too obvious the delays in their timely availability at the Finance Portal. It is also a problem that occurs not only with this declaration but also with other reporting obligations, as is the case with IES. They defend, and well, the petitioners that this has happened repeatedly over several years, thus impairing the activity of the accountants, conditionaling on the legal compliance of the taxpayers' reporting obligations. The result has been harmful for those who only want to help and contribute to the strict fulfilment of the reporting obligations. The work is carried out under pressure, in a short period of time, enabling the occurrence of errors and even situations of non-compliance. They therefore intend, and well, petitioners who have a time limit for the Tax Authority to make available the forms of tax declarations, thus giving more time for the fulfilment of the reporting obligations, in particular the EIS and the Model Declaration 22. Although the Government accepts a different conjugation of the deadlines for the declarative obligations relating to various taxes, because they have been designed alone by the legislator and are able to present incongruities and, therefore, may be likely to improve, in reality little or nothing has been done. And it is not enough to call on the Order to submit a proposal for a reorganization of the fiscal calendar. It's been too long without anything being done. in the same way, we find it inconsistent with the request made by the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs to the Tax Authority to identify the times of overload of the system, resulting from overlapping the terms of the deadlines more than a declaration obligation. The overload periods and even the collapse of the Finance Portal are public and evident. Referring to the discovery of what you already know is just a sign from those who do not want to decide or do. For all this, it is time for the government to move forward with a new fiscal timetable that takes account of the petitioners' demands, for the sake of stability, predictability and tranquility of taxpayers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u322	Mr Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, I begin by greeting the petitioners, who come to warn of a problem we are discussing now, unfortunately, when the issue has already been overcome, but, as this is a recurring issue and which has repeated several times over the years, it remains very current, because it is natural that it will be repeated again in the future. And what's the problem? The problem is that, throughout the year, taxpayers and accountants, who work for taxpayers, have to comply with certain tax obligations, including tax reporting obligations, and must, of course, do so at the Finance Portal. Well, what's going on? What happens is that, in many cases, forms to comply with these obligations, for accountants and taxpayers to complete, are made available very late. This means that, for example, when the deadline for fulfilling an obligation expires on 31 May, and it would be assumed that there would be five months in order to be able to complete the form, if the form is made available only 15 days earlier, the deadline is very short and therefore it is completely impossible to comply with the obligation, in particular by a professional who sometimes has hundreds of declarations to carry out. The CDS, in fact, in the 2017 State Budget, has already presented a proposal to speed up the fiscal calendar, so that there was at least one week a month when accounting professionals did not have a deadline to finish, but this proposal was plunged by the union of left-wings that supports the government. this year, we made a much more minimalist proposal, in the sense that, 120 days ahead of the end of the deadline in which the taxpayer and the accountants have to comply with the obligation, the form must be made available at the Finance Portal ; if this does not happen, then for each day of late taxation, the deadline is automatically extended. This, in order to stop having this debate every year on the extension of the deadline. The gentlemen. Members will say - to me - that the problem of deadlines and the extension of the deadlines and delays of the tax administration did not start with this government. It did not actually start with this government, as it did not start with the previous one, because unfortunately, in some cases, the disrespect with which the administration treats taxpayers and the professionals is chronic. However, that is no excuse for anything we do; on the contrary, it makes it even more compulsory than, quickly, to do something.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u324	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u325	Therefore, for our part, what the CDS will do is present a bill, transforming the proposal we have already submitted, establishing, once and for all, a deadline...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u326	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u327	...and an automatic extension in case of tax failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u328	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u329	Of course, Mr. President. With regard to the PCP project, in order to recommend to the Government to review the fiscal calendar, Mr. Paulo Sá, it does not do well, but I have doubts that a government that has already said it would do so, and that would do so from 1 January 2018, and that so far we have not seen anything, will do anything because of a recommendation from the Assembly. Frankly, I do not think that it is wrong, but it will not do anything good, all the more so that, I recall, the tax system is subject to a relative reserve of competence of the Assembly of the Republic and therefore a government action on this subject will have to be passed through the Assembly of the Republic. Maybe, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was more practical for us to do it, rather than recommend it to the government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u330	Mr Ricardo Leon, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to greet and greet the more than 4000 petitioners, in particular their first subscriber, Dr. Maria Filomena Simões, here present. We are before a petition requesting the extension of the deadline for delivery of the IRC Model Declaration 22. The PS Parliamentary Group, either through the hearings it has made, either by the suggestions sent by the associations, by the Order or even by groups of certified accountants, who legitimately send us their opinions, acknowledges that this problem, which has existed for many years and has never been resolved - for four and a half years of the previous PSD and CDS government nothing has been done, as has been mentioned and confirmed here - is essentially in the lack of timely availability of electronic forms and applications by the Tax and Customs Authority, which, of course, has caused a imbalance in the State/contributor relationship. in this sense, the certified accountants have been demonstrating themselves about the delay with which the Tax Authority has made available the applications for submission of model 22 electronic declarations and of the IES itself, often above the deadlines set by law, implying that the more than 70 000 certified accountants have very little time to deliver these declarations, resulting in stress and anxiety, with possible errors arising from this fact, falling, in this situation, criminal and financial consequences for their own. Therefore, either by the responses given to the issues raised by the PS, or by the statement in the draft resolution of the CFP, which I also welcome, the Government assumes its willingness to assess the current deadlines defined in isolation and the possible incongruences in the Code, as well as by working with the Order of Certified Accountants and the AT itself ( Tax and Customs Authority ) to present a reorganisation response to the fiscal calendar, with a view to its application from 1 January 2018, after all, already meeting between the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs and the staff of the Order, last week. Therefore, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, I take advantage to show our availability and openness in future to address other matters with the Order of the Certified Accountants and also with other representative organizations and certified accountants themselves, who have legitimately raised questions about the renewal of the Finance Portal, tax holidays, the simplification of the tax calendar, the fair impediment to certified accountants, or even the existing relationship with the Tax and Customs Authority itself, always in order to balance the State/contributor relationship, in the normal fulfilment of the tax obligations on the part of taxable subjects, in order to value the profession of certified accountants, a profession of public utility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-24.u332	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our work. I should like to announce that the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the agenda of the next item on the'Portugal 2030 '. The sitting is thus closed. [[It was 18 hours and 27 minutes.]]
