ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the House today have a debate with the Minister of Health under Article 225. the Rules of Procedure. I welcome Mr Minister as well as all the members of the Government present. First of all, Mr Luís Vales of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of Health, I begin by listing some questions which, in fact, concern Portuguese: ophthalmology — 1046 days of waiting for consultation at the Chaves hospital ; orthopaedics — 886 days of waiting at the hospital of Lamego and 581 days of waiting at the hospital of Guarda ; pneumology — 592 days of waiting at the hospital of São João, Porto ; neurosurgery — 560 days of waiting at the hospital of Faro ; gynecology — 433 days of waiting at the hospital of Leiria ; neurology — 424 days of waiting at the hospital of Amadora-Sintra. These are just a few examples, among many others possible, that reveal the state of misery to which you and your government, with the complicity of the Communist Party and the Left Block, have allowed our National Health Service ( SNS ) to arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u3	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u4	contrary to what you promised in this same Assembly in 2016, the percentage of medical consultations performed outside the maximum guaranteed response times ( TMRG ) has increased again in the last two years. The result is that many thousands of patients have to wait long months, sometimes years, Minister, for access to the hospital consultations they need so much. This is a reality that should make the Minister, his government and the parties who support him feel ashamed. This increase in waiting times in the SNS is inhuman to our patients and is a face-to-face to health professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u5	It is a consequence of your governance!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u6	But while patients wait hundreds of days for a hospital consultation, there are also hundreds of doctors who completed hospital admission in 2017 and who continue to wait for the NSS placement contests.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u7	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u8	So I ask you, Minister: after you have not already fulfilled your promises for several times in connection with the opening of competitions for doctors who have completed the specialty, do you have the permission of the Minister of Finance to give a final date for the opening of these competitions? And now, Minister, is there still some courage to set for 2018 some target in terms of reducing the percentage of consultations carried out outside the guaranteed maximum response times, knowing that this percentage, after reduced by the previous government, has increased again in the last two years? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u9	The Minister of Health has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u10	Mr President, Mr Luís Vales, I record your questions with great interest and, if I may, I appeal to your own memory.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u12	It would be worth it if, when you made such an exhaustive and detailed list as you did, you did the same exercise in relation to the time of the previous government, which you supported,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u13	And I do!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u14	... and verified the average value of the maximum response times guaranteed at that time, in these hospitals and in those categories that he referred to. But, Mr President, do you know what you are doing so that there are no very large waiting lists or much degradation of time?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u15	Turn off the lists!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u16	There are no first consultations, Mr President. And do you know how many other first consultations have been conducted in recent years? It was another 1 million consultations between 2011 and 2017. Of course, today, we have much more initial consultations and, therefore, we have more people registered for surgery. But do you know what the news is, sir? It is that we have operated far more sick than those that were operated in the time of their government and we have much more sick in first consultations in hospitals. Therefore, Mr President, in order to conclude the answer to your question, I leave a final note. The people say that "what the eyes see, the heart doesn't feel." But without a portal of transparency and the objective sharing of information as it exists today, what existed in the past was opacity, which is now replaced by transparency. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the invitation to tender, Mr President, we may now be able to resolve this question and answer your question by telling you that, firstly, there has been a political delay that we regret and that we would rather not have happened. The second information I would like to convey to the House is that the order concerning the competition for young specialists will be published next week. Now, as far as the competition is concerned, I would like to clarify one aspect of which I think there is some confusion: the doctors who are going to the competition are in the SNS, they are not outside the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The question is that these doctors have a different bond, but they should already have the contractual bond of assistants and should already be paid as such. We are therefore dealing with linkage and remuneration and it is not worth deceiving the Portuguese and saying that these doctors are outside the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u17	Mr Luís Vales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health, has left us a very good question, which is to know what the situation was in the time of our government. In fact, the maximum waiting times were 31 % in 2010 and we lowered them to 26 % in 2015 ; already the Minister promised to decrease them by 2 %, but in fact they increased by 2 % in the last year. So, Minister, here you have the answer. As regards the question of the first consultations, it is true that earlier consultations have taken place. The question is that what is important has not been resolved and people are still waiting for consultations hundreds of days, sometimes more than 1000. What is the Minister going to do to resolve this issue? I also ask you, Minister: what are you going to do to resolve the medical issue? When are you going to put the doctors that are needed in the places where they are needed? We know where they are, but they're needed in places they're not, Minister! When are you going to solve the problem of the New Specialist Doctors' Competition? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u19	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u20	Mr President, Mr Luís Vales, I would like to stress what I have just suggested. in his time, there were fewer than 30,000 people enrolled in surgeries... [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Deputy, at the time of his government, there were fewer than 30,000 people enrolled in surgery.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u21	Answer what you're asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u22	You know why? Because the number of first consultations was much lower and, with the closed door, there are no waiting lists! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Closing the door, honourable Member, there are no waiting lists, but increasing access, there are waiting lists. What is true — and that is what the Portuguese have to know — is that today we are being more resolute, we are operating more people, there are more people having their problem solved and we will do everything to ensure that the situation continues to improve until the end of the legislature. With regard to the question of doctors in the interior, I said that was the question to which you referred, Mr President, I have already told you that the office will be published for the week. Also please see the hospital — that is, even a good exercise for a next debate — inside, in the so-called “deprived hospitals”, the number of doctors there today and those who were in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u23	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Under-Secretary of State and Health and Parliamentary Affairs, the Secretary of State for Health, Minister of Health, wanted to leave a first word in this debate to welcome and express the solidarity of the Left Block Parliamentary Group with nurses, who yesterday even marked a national strike on 22 and 23 March. The nurses are told that the government does not implement the commitment it has made to them, and they are right. On the other hand, the government is not implementing the commitment it has made to several health professionals as well as users. Let us look at some examples of waiting lists: in Keys or in Seia, you expect more than 1000 days for an ophthalmology consultation; in Faro, you expect more than 700 days for a consultation of stomatology; in Themega and Sousa, you expect 650 days for a consultation of pneumology. Mr. Minister could have solved these problems a long time ago. He had in his hands, for more than 10 months, the solution to many of these problems, which was the hiring of new specialists, but he didn't. It now announces again, for the third or fourth time, perhaps, that it will open the contest, but nothing shuts down almost a year's delay in this contest. So I would like to ask you the following: how many doctors have left the National Health Service because of this year's delay, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Health and the Government? How many new-specialists did they go to private? How many went abroad? How many, in the face of instability and lack of competition, have left the National Health Service? Mr Minister, I am also referring to the fact that the Assembly of the Republic has recently adopted a draft recommendation from the Left Block for the final recruitment of all professionals who have been placed under the influenza contingency plan. Is the government already making the final hiring of all these professionals, which are required every day in the National Health Service? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u25	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u26	Mr. President, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, before answering directly to the questions you have raised about the strike of nurses and doctors, I would like to remind the House that, compared to 2015, the SNS has today more than 7500 professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They cannot therefore accuse the Government of having made a policy of de-investment in human capital. It is necessary to understand the context that the country lives and the circumstances in which we move. The existence of more than 7500 professionals is, perhaps, the largest sector growth ever and surely, in health matters, the largest growth in the last 30 years. Mr Moisés Ferreira asks me whether this is enough or whether we are satisfied. It is not enough, we are not satisfied and we have always said that we are in the middle of a course, that we are in the middle of a legislature and that everything will be done to, in a framework of budgetary responsibility, to do what is important to do, that is to re-evaluate work, to re-qualify careers, to recognize the value of the work of health professionals. That is why, honourable Member, we have resolved the situation of careers of professionals such as hospital pharmacists and TDTs (diagnosis and therapy technicians) who have been awaiting this recognition for over 16 years. That is also why the Secretary of State for Health has been working with the different trade unions, particularly those of nurses, and has the assurance that what was agreed on in October/November last year will be strictly fulfilled. Specifically, the reasons that the Nurses' Union yesterday pointed to the strike will no longer be right, since the information I have is that these difficulties will be overcome. It is clear, Mr President, and I have already said this in the previous reply that we would rather have made the competition earlier. These doctors, although in the system, are not, eventually, in hospitals where they could miss the most, are in hospitals where they did their training. After the contest for family doctors, whose office went out on Wednesday last week, we hope to publish next week the order of the contest for hospital doctors. Finally, Mr President, on the question of the private sector, one thing is certain: this year, there will be many fewer doctors who will not come to the contest because they went to the private sector or abroad than those who were two, three and four years ago. We will now see, when the notice of openness is published, that what I am telling you is strictly true. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u27	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u28	Mr President, Minister of Health, I asked a very specific question, in order to know how many doctors have left the National Health Service because of the delay that is the responsibility of the Minister, to whom you have not responded. I also asked another very specific question, in order to know whether the Government is already definitely hiring all the professionals who have been put under the contingency plan. We are not comparing with the background years of the PSD well and the CDS-PP, because although we would be comparing with the worst that was done at the level of the National Health Service. But Mr Minister, I would like to give you a very concrete example: 12 nurses who had been hired under the contingency plan were fired in Vila Nova de Gaia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u29	And did the Block leave? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u30	This dismissal of 12 nurses led to the closure of 19 rear beds of the emergency service. After two or three days of this dismissal, there were dozens of users hospitalized in monkeys in the emergency service. Are these professionals needed throughout the year in the National Health Service? They are! So the question is again this: are these professionals going to be hired permanently, throughout the year, in the National Health Service? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u31	The Minister of Health has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u32	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, it is entirely inappropriate to assume that, in the face of a contingency plan and a temporary enlargement of the frameworks or resources, this becomes definitive resources. It must be each entity, which has business autonomy and capacity to define its needs, whether or not it needs those resources. Otherwise, the contingency plan would be transformed into an annual plan to strengthen effectiveness, in a way that would not be discriminatory or institutional. Therefore, I reaffirm that the administrations of hospitals, which are endowed with business autonomy, have this power and should indicate whether the resources that have been contracted as contingency should or should not be contracted on a final basis. in this sense, if this is done, of course the answer will be favorable. Mr President, on the question of doctors going to private, I told you that I do not have an exact number, but we certainly have the firm indication that this year will have left, on their own option, for the private sector or for the foreign sector much less doctors than last year, than two years ago and three years ago. Until, Mr President, there is an inexorable reality: the private sector is no longer that sponge of resources that was two years ago, three years ago, or four years ago, because, in terms of installed capacity, it is also entering a stabilisation phase. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u33	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to welcome the new leadership of the PSD Parliamentary Group and its President, Mr Fernando Negrão. I also want to say a « until now» to Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, who I am supposed to be present at the plenary and with whom I have already had the opportunity to exchange a few farewell words. The time you chaired the PSD bench was certainly divergent in some aspects, but also of great institutional and personal solidarity, which I wanted to highlight. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] To put questions to the Minister of Health, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Health, the Secretary of State for Health, the Under-Secretary of State and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and say that we welcome the fact that, at the initiative of the CDS, we are here once again discussing health issues for us and for the Portuguese unfortunately so expensive, and not for the best reasons. Mr Minister, for many advertisements, promises and propaganda exercises that you make us on the action of your government, it is true that this does not fit with reality. Yours is clearly a pink portrait of reality, reality that for the Portuguese, for the sick, for the health professionals and — see! — even for the parties that support it and approve its budgets, the portrait is very black. In addition to everything that has already been pointed out here, which is very serious and that the two minutes I have at my disposal do not allow me to go back, what we meant, Minister, is that health is bad, and you cannot pretend that it is not responsible and that this is not happening. As if everything that has already been mentioned was not enough — and that indeed the CDS has been insistently reporting — we were surprised days ago by the news that 500 million euros have been transferred to hospitals, allegedly for payment of debts to suppliers, and that—it is a mistake! — are frozen. It is interesting, Mr Minister, because what happened was that they were frozen by the Ministry of Finance. Of course, the Minister of Health is quick to tell us that the responsibility for finance was not yours, and that, in fact, it would be frozen within days. Let me mention a note to you: by the way, the expression 'in days' is becoming famous for your government team.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u36	however, the Minister of Finance says that it will not be within days, but within a month. What are we, after all, Minister? We already know that for Mr Prime Minister it is indifferent if the Minister of Finance talks about days, hours, seconds. And, admitting that it is not even your style, let me tell you that it is regrettable that the Prime Minister of a country shows the size of disdem and sarcasm when we refer to such serious matters and to people, whether they are sick or professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u38	The Minister has not yet put the doctors who are inside and says that this happens within days, but the finances have come to say that it is for months, therefore one of the two: either the Minister does not send anything, or then the Minister is actually being a victim of a cabal within his government, as is said today. And because it is the Minister of Health who is here today — and not the Minister of Finance — we have to make a request to him, which is the following: be a minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u40	If it has not been for two years, be Minister now and answer us today to a number of questions. When will the EUR 500 million of the debts for the payments yet to be made be frozen? When will the contest be opened for the 700 specialists, so that it will be baptized as the "in-day" contest? When will primary health care reform progress? When will you respond to the professionals who are exhausted, unhappy and who announce strikes, in a situation that you have not been able to solve? You're a minister. Today, here, answer us, please. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u41	Mrs. Members, as is customary in these debates, the Bureau uses some tolerance in relation to the two minutes each Member has in the first round of questions, in any case it is appropriate not to go beyond that barrier too much. To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u42	Mr President, Madam Member, it is always a pleasure to debate with Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u43	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u44	The honourable Member accuses us of speaking of a pink country, but the honourable Member always speaks of a virtual country, a country that actually exists in their desires, but does not exist in reality. Do you know the difference, Your Honor? It is that we have the democratic humility to describe a path, a trajectory, to recognize and to say that things are not yet as we would like them to be. We did not—we do not have that tradition—we said we had saved something, as it was said in 2014 by the government of then that they had saved the SNS. But then let's leave the pink country and the virtual country and let's go to facts and numbers, Mrs. Isabel Galliça Neto. Two years later, we have another 7500 professionals in the SNS — auditable, Mrs. Member, auditable! Two years later, we have 61 approved innovative drugs, the greatest access to the medicine ever and they were in the drawer. It was like waiting lists: drugs in the drawer control spending, it's guaranteed success. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War and CDS-PP Member Isabel Galliça Neto.]] We have greater access to the innovative medicine for cancer and the largest number of patients with hepatitis C treated—we have been treating patients deprived of their liberty, who are in prison, and we are close to having, in international terms, the greatest success in the eradication of this disease. We have more investment, Mrs Deputies — 110 health centres to be launched and built right now! I believe that there is no memory in the past of such investment in primary health care. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] We have 774 nurses who will be placed in primary health care in a contest that you have left to drag and block and that will allow all the ACES (health centers groups) in the country to have practically their full picture and to value the work by qualified nurses in primary health care. We have the greatest record, in absolute terms, of transplants carried out from time to time, Mrs. Deputy, the largest number of surgeries, the largest number of first consultations and total consultations. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] We have 94% of users covered by family doctors. When we arrived at the government, the value was 88% as regards the coverage of Portuguese by family doctor! Finally, the list would be, in fact, huge. Mrs Deputy, knowing your thinking a little bit—we have known each other very well for many years—I anticipated that there were two things that Mrs Deputy would ask me: one, it was if I felt half-Minister. I reply that I have never felt as a minister as I feel today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second relates to that little little rabula, very small, and which makes a lot of sense, that is to say that I am a sort of diminished minister, that the Minister of Finance is to send this, that he and I have a disagreement... Mr. Member, don't go there! It's just we don't have any differences! There has never been such a cohesive government as the XXI Constitutional Government! [[P.S.'s applause.]] There has never been such a cohesive government in this matter. And between the 17 ministers and the Prime Minister there is a very high cohesion. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, on the matter of 500 million and 1000 million, we did not freeze anything. The difference is this: when the previous government ceased to function, they had been subtracted from the SNS EUR 1000 million — EUR 1000 million! Do you know how much we've recovered from the three budgets? We've recovered 800 million! Do you know what the value of the current statutory capital is? It is 1000 million — 500 plus 500. That capital is not frozen. It is being done with the ACSS ( Central Health System Administration, IP ) and with the IGF ( Institute of Financial Management ) what has to be done, which is the circularity of the debt to categorize it and, according to its seniority, to ensure that the lowest values of late and late payments are reached in the second half of the year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Isabel Galriça Neto, I'm done with a note.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u45	You really have to finish, Minister. Attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u46	Mr President, I appreciate your tolerance, but I wanted to leave a note. Mrs. Isabel Galriça Neto, the problem is not to discuss health policies today, here, because we already realize that what the CDS does is to go to the Internet to see the agenda of trade union associations and orders to come here and ask questions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] The CDS does not, in fact, have its own political thinking about health. But the CDS problem is not that. You know what, Mrs. Deputy? The problem will be, for a year and a half in October 2019, the comparison of four years of this majority with four years of the previous majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u47	Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u48	Mr President, Mr Minister, very quickly, and first of all, I wanted to tell you that I care for your health and did not amputate it! At the very least, what I can tell you is that it is serious, very serious — and the Portuguese will record — that the Minister of Health has come here today, saying that he does not really take responsibility! Mr Minister, it is not just a question of captivating, it is you who is a child of the Minister of Finance! Our captives were no longer enough, you are the child of the Minister of Finance, as we have indeed seen you for two years now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u50	Therefore, Mr Minister, he assumes his responsibilities, he does not back behind the Minister of Finance, because the results are in fact in sight. The results are in sight! As I began to tell you, you can come here to list numbers, do rhetorical exercises, but rhetoric does not stick to reality. Even yesterday, health professionals came to tell us that the National Health Service is worse than ever. Mr Minister, listen to the health professionals if you do not want to hear what this Parliament tells you! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u51	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you have misinterpreted me because what your speech reveals is that you have confused government solidarity and government cohesion with responsibility. It is clear that who is here today is the Minister of Health and, before Parliament, the Minister of Health assumes responsibility for sectoral policy. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u53	What we do not accept in any way is this exercise of trying to say, as now the honourable Member said with some grace, that we are children of each other. Mr Deputy, we are children of public interest and of transforming the country into something different from what you have left. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] And you know why, Mrs. Member? First, because you know that, legally, there are no captivating in health and, therefore, this is a rhetorical exercise. Then, this mixture that you have made rhetoric with reality is that I honestly did not understand. I list a set of facts, you deny the facts and what counts is the demand agenda of the people who come to talk to you! We have well in mind the legitimacy of the claiming agenda. We understand well that professionals have to be heard and that we have to do much more for them. But to confuse this with reality is something that, indeed, seems to me very inadequate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u54	It is the time of the CFP Parliamentary Group to put questions to the Minister. To that end, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : cancer patients waiting for consultation for more than a month because of the lack of oncologists in Torres Vedras hospital ; the lack of obstetricians in the Beja hospital is calling into question the obstetric urgency ; in the Aveiro hospital there are 20 doctors, 60 nurses and 68 operational assistants ; in the Algarve hospital there is a lack of 120 doctors, but for 2018 only the opening of competition for 22 ; in the Gaia / Espinho hospital, 11 nurses were fired; in the Alentejo Coastal hospital, the lack of staff led to reduced beds of the convalescence unit from 25 to 12. This is the reality that goes a little over the country. The Minister, today, has already mentioned here that the competition for the newly-specialists of hospital and public health specialties will be open for the week. Let us hope so, because, in fact, nine months later there is no justification for these doctors not being part of the career. The Minister said it was a matter of linkage and remuneration. For it is precisely the question that has led many professionals, through the devaluation of careers, by their devaluation and not recognition, to leave in advance of the National Health Service or abroad or to private entities. Let us see, Minister : of these 710 new specialists, how many will compete and how many will the National Health Service have already lost because the competition has not been opened in good time, so they have completed their training? This is a matter of valuing professionals, it is a matter of ensuring quality and ensuring the National Health Service, because one of the strategies that the detractors of the National Health Service used was to attack their professionals. Mr Minister, this is a fundamental issue so that no longer happens what happened in the past. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u56	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u57	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, without, under any circumstances, recognizing that her concerns are absolutely grounded and legitimate, there is an exercise of justice that must be done. This is not the ideal world we would like to have. As I said earlier, we have more than 7500 professionals, we have made the replacement of wages, we have standardised the payment of additional work, we have started negotiating fronts with all the professional structures and areas. We are doing everything we can to, as I said, to value, to dignify the work and to consider as the main asset of the SNS its workers and its professionals. But, Madam Member, I also find it unfair that, as the Government is doing this effort in national terms, we should do the details. It is clear that the detail is important for the populations who live in each of these areas, for hospital A, for hospital B. We are necessarily taking care of the detail, but, as a whole, the effort that has been made—and the Portuguese feel -in good—is of great size, and, until the end of the legislature, one thing I assure you: we will do everything so that, at the end of 2019, the SNS will have, as it is today, not only the largest number of professionals, but above all, a better distribution. That is why we made a regulatory device that allowed 150 young doctors to be placed under the incentive scheme, which went very well and that allows there to be doctors today in Alentejo, the Beira Interior and the Algarve. We will try to extend this regime so that there is an increasing willingness of these professionals to look inside, and that is why, Mrs Deputies, we are undertaking investment programmes in all hospitals in the country, whether in the modernization of infrastructures or equipment, because we well know that one of the factors for attracting young doctors in the interior is also the fact that hospitals have conditions in which their professional exercise can be safeguarded and guaranteed, and that guarantee we give it, of course. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u58	Mrs Paula Santos continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u59	Mr President, Minister, the question that arises in this regard is, in fact, the need to take concrete steps to solve these problems, because each of the issues we have brought here, each of the examples — we could give many more — has a concrete impact on the lives of the users who are served by these hospitals. And the point I put on is to know what commitment the Government has today to solve these problems. Mr. Minister referred to the opening of negotiations with various trade union structures, but what we find today is that the commitment made to nurses was not fulfilled: the payment of extraordinary debt of work until December 2017, the start of the negotiation process of his career, the payment of the supplement to nurse specialist already in January this year. The question that I leave to you, Minister, is the following: is the word given not an honest word? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u60	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u61	Mr President, Madam Member, it is clear that the word must be honored and it is clear that when we, in specific and timely circumstances, for reasons of internal coordination or others, fail the deadline, we have to take politically these consequences. What I said, Mrs. Member, is that Mr. Secretary of State of Health maintains open dialogue with both nurses and doctors so that what was committed is strictly fulfilled, and this issue is very important for us. With regard to the issues you have raised, although we are today much better in the country as a whole in terms of waiting and in terms of access, it is clear that we do not devalue the specific cases of Aveiro, Setúbal or Torres Vedras, and our concern will be that, as the vacancies are being opened and the contests are being held, these hospitals have preference in opening these same vacancies and, as I also told you, they are not forgotten in the investment and modernization processes, so that they are attractive to young doctors and nurses who want to work there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u62	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u63	Mr President, Minister, I believe you have already noticed that the Greens give a great deal of relevance to the role of the family doctor. We believe that the preventive component in the health system is determining and that the Ministry of Health has, of course, a central role in enabling and extending this preventive component. It is clear that treatment is also of great relevance, but we know that a bet on the preventive component generates better results in the treatment component itself and naturally avoids many diseases and therefore the need to use other health services. That is why, Minister, since the beginning of the legislature we have questioned the Government about an undertaking that all Portuguese would have a family doctor. Mr. Prime Minister, without anyone asking you about dates, assured here, in this same room, that at the end of 2017 all Portuguese would have a family doctor. This commitment has not been ensured. They are now — if I don't miss the numbers — about 700 000 Portuguese without a family doctor. I would like the Minister to assure me and assure Parliament whether this work will be completed until the end of the legislature, because it is essential. This was a matter that we also repeatedly put to the previous government, PSD / CDS, which had assumed before the country that, until the end of the legislature, all Portuguese would have a family doctor. The Greens, understanding that this commitment would not be ensured, presented draft law No 857 / XII ( 4 ) in the Assembly of the Republic. a ), which ensured that at least all children in Portugal had a family doctor. And so it was, from this bill of The Greens, which came out Law No. 79 / 2015, that ensured an automatic program of allocation of family doctor to all newborns so that at least these and children would not lack family doctor. It appears that there has been information, which has been made public relatively recently, that this law is not being complied with, and I would like to know, Minister, whether it is or not. I would like to know if all Portuguese will have a family doctor until the end of the legislature and how we are therefore in this component. By the way, I would also like to know, on the part of the government, when the question of the family nurse for all Portuguese will actually be put into effect. And because I'm really at the end of time -- it's hard to manage 3 minutes of time in these circumstances -- I put the questions all right away. There is one last thing that I would like to do to Mr Minister, which is about asbestos. As it is known, a law was passed at the initiative of The Greens in the Assembly of the Republic which determined that the Government should make a survey of all public buildings with asbestos, to realize in which state the materials contained asbestos in those buildings and to use the figure of removing this material.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u64	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u65	I'm done now, Mr. President. According to us, each ministry is responsible for its own buildings. There is a contradiction: in this country, there are health centers with asbestos. in buildings where people will seek health care, they face this absolute contradiction, which is the presence of asbestos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u66	You have already exceeded all the time of your Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u67	Yes, Mr. President. My question is: what is the state of monitoring and removal of asbestos in the buildings of the responsibility of the Ministry of Health?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u68	In reply, Mr Adalberto Campos Fernandes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the questions, which will allow me, rather than talking about other things, such as newspaper titles or daily soundbits, to speak truly about health policy and a structural pillar of our policy, which are primary health care. Mrs. Member, starting with the family doctors, I will say the following: in 2015, less than 88% of Portuguese had coverage by family doctor. Today, we have around 93, 6 % coverage, so we have, as the honourable Member said, not 700 000, but a little less. In fact, with the entry now of 110 doctors, whose contest was launched last Wednesday, we will have an additional gain of 150 000 or 160 000 family doctors. With regard to this question and to the question which the honourable Member is asking, the firm commitment remains that at the end of the legislature this Government intends to leave the country with all Portuguese covered by a family doctor. We are also doing, Mrs Deputy, a great exercise in the transformation of primary health care, betting very closely. We launched the SNS + Proximity project. And what does that mean? More resolution. We have oral health for the first time in health centres, and the objective is that, by the end of the year, all ACES have at least one specialist in oral health. We also invest in visual health, increasing the availability of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, in more psychologists — in fact, with the contribution of the Assembly of the Republic — in more nutritionists. We are reforming, as I said, and restructuring, and I am also responding to the question of asbestos — 110 health centres. For example, Sintra council, which was surely one of the worst municipalities in the country in primary health care, will remain, until the end of the legislature, without a single health centre in the building of housing, with dignified conditions for the exercise of professional activity. We also note, Mrs. Member, the greatest advance in the program of health promotion and disease prevention, with the launch of the largest screening program that there is memory in primary health care. With regard to the family nurse, and after receiving the proposal from the Order of Nurses, we are currently finalizing the decision-making process with regard to the same proposal. We therefore have an integrated view, which modernizes them and which aims to develop what was very positive from behind, in terms of reform. at this time we already have more than 54 USF ( family health units) than there was in November 2015, and at the end of this year we expect to have 83 USF, also ensuring in this matter the fulfilment of the objective of the Government Programme, which is to have at least 100 USF in 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u70	To ask questions, I now have the floor of Mr António Sales of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u71	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the National Health Service is, in the view of Portuguese, the largest and best public service built by Portuguese democracy, being a decisive instrument of social cohesion and combating inequalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u73	Decrease it and weaken it, as happened between 2011 and 2015 — I repeat, between 2011 and 2015 —, represents a tremendous backwardness and an unquestionable impoverishment of our social democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Sadly, between 2011 and 2015, because of the previous government's wrong political choices, PSD / CDS, we witnessed a clear decrease and weakening of the SNS. Thus, when public expenditure fell 21 %, when 1 million and 300,000 Portuguese were left without a family doctor, when health units and emergency services were closed,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... when moderate rates rose and turned the trendly free of charge into trendly paid, when health cuts were twice as much as required in the Memorandum of Understanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u75	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in view of the urgent need to counter this legacy left by the former Government, PSD / CDS, this Government, such as the support of the new parliamentary majority, made a clear commitment at the end of 2015 to the stabilization, strengthening and development of the SNS, which has come to honour and meet in a framework of demanding economic and budgetary conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u77	He honored and met when he returned to work rights and wages, honored and met when he offered family doctors over 500 000 Portuguese, honored and met when he returned to sharing drugs and defined a plan of investments of hospitals and health centers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u78	But don't pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u79	And you paid? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u80	Today, the SNS is paying better attention. Today, the Portuguese have more confidence in the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, I would like to ask you one first question: what are the main challenges for this second half of the Parliament and, in particular, what is planned for better organizing public services in the health sector? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u81	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u82	Mr President, honourable Member, the main challenge for the second half of the Parliament is first of all strictly fulfilling the Government Programme. That is our obligation before Parliament, that is our obligation before the country. Mr, it is necessary to resist a permanent noise manufacturing that seeks to devalue what has been done, seeks to spread the current reality, to contribute in a way to keep the opacity of memory maintained and to ensure that there was a sort of bleaching or retrograde amnesia, which makes us forget what happened between 2011 and 2015. We are always told « but there were extreme circumstances». For there was, but the choices were also extreme and went to the grip of what the previous Memorandum itself did. As you mentioned, and very well, we are in a path of financial recovery, of sustainability of the SNS. of the 1000 million subtracted, we've already recovered 800 million. Is that enough? It's not, isn't it? Because we are expanding: expanding recruitment, expanding service, expanding investment and expanding activity. Interestingly, there is no mention here of the brutal worsening of the moderate rates that removed so many Portuguese SNS between 2011 and 2015! Now that we have the biggest coming from Portuguese to SNS, we continue to bet on more access, in things as simple as sharing for drugs that promote smoking cessation, such as the sharing of insulin pumps, such as access to therapeutic innovation in cancer, HIV, and, as I said earlier, the treatment of citizens deprived of their freedom. These are those details that the opposition does not speak. The opposition speaks of the details of the case, of what is the newspaper of the day, does not speak of what is the bet on the quality of life of people, professionals and citizens. Mr President, we have two years ahead, in which our obligation, as I have always said here, is to leave the SNS much better than we have found it, and why? To serve the Portuguese and so that the professionals who work in it feel motivated and feel, in fact, oriented towards a compensating professional project. I've already talked here about the reform of primary health care. At hospital level, we are investing in integrated responsibility centres, in autonomous intermediate management mechanisms so that hospitals can do more, better and more motivation than those who work in them. in the national network of integrated continuous care we have today about 1000 answers, never the national network of integrated care has had so much response: in palliative, pediatric and adult care, in mental health. This is the reality that separates the spectrum from the virtual rhetoric and from that exercise of fear, from promoting a culture of lies and non-correspondence to the truth, so that the Portuguese cling not to reality but to a perception. This is our challenge, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u83	Mr António Sales has the floor again for a reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u84	Mr President, Minister of Health, with the change in the PSD cycle we expected from the new leadership a new approach to assessing the reality of the SNS, more rigorous and productive in the field of contributions. But the question, Mr. Minister, not to say until disappointment, was installed when we heard the new PSD leader last Sunday in his political purpose discourse, offering a shortage of solutions, some trivialities and, above all, presenting an old portrait dated from the end of 2015, such was the coincidence of the situation with the described inheritance left by the PSD/CDS government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u85	The new leader then said: “Lack of human resources! Deertification of doctors to the interior of the country! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[And it's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u86	“Investment deficit! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[And it's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u87	Mr. PSD members, he drew the real portrait of the PSD/CDS government at the end of 2015. This was your portrait! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have: incentives to doctors for the interior; 30 million for health centres in Lisbon; hiring 7500 new professionals; Portugal is among the 20 countries with fewer newborn deaths! Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the true portrait of this PS government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] That is why there is doubt, Minister, if the PSD, in relation to SNS, will evolve from the current political, chaotic, disorientated opposition...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u88	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u89	Mr President, I would ask you to tolerate this. As I said, Mr Minister, there is doubt whether the PSD will evolve from the current, chaotic and disoriented opposition to a new attitude of opposition, responsible and collaborative, or, on the contrary, will continue to compete with the CDS focused on the bottom boot, always based on any speculative and demagogic news. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u90	Minister, we don't understand whether this PSD is just a placebo or a therapeutic innovation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] for our part, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and until the end of this Parliament, we will continue to fulfil our commitment to strengthening and developing the SNS. Mr Minister, I therefore leave you with one last question: what is the approach you have planned to improve our emergency services, our waiting lists and our response times for diagnosis and treatment? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u91	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health, Adalberto Campos Fernandes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u92	Mr President, Mr António Sales, on the subject of the PSD meeting with the past, I allow myself to make no comment because, of course, we are very looking forward to seeing whether we enter a register in which ethics in the bathrooms or if we continue in a record in which ethics abandons us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In any case, I wanted to answer the concrete question you put on the emergency service. Today, we have a reality of looking for services that is very linked to demographic transition, aging, isolation of people. Today we know that it is frequent, in an urgent hospital, to meet citizens aged 70 or more by accompanying their parents who seek hospital care and who, of course, have answers in this regard. We have found throughout the country a huge number of hospitals whose emergency services are dated from the 80s, without conditions of care quality, clinical safety—and I talk to you about the cases of the hospitals of Setúbal, Caldas da Rainha, Gaia, Bragança. There are dozens of hospitals in which the construction and model of the emergency service was designed at a time when the urgency did not have the pressure nor did it have the type of answers that it now has to have. That is why we are currently launching dozens of interventions in the country in works, infrastructure and equipment, particularly in emergency services. That is also why, on the matter of access, Mr Commissioner, we have changed the door that regulates the maximum guaranteed response times, reducing these times and allowing patients, citizens, who need access to such care first in the SNS, but, if this is not possible, then have a response in the sector agreed in good time and not deprived of their right to health, as is naturally due to them. Mr President, we have a lot of work ahead of us and, if you will allow me, taking a little bit of what is most important in politics is not how it is the exercise of truth, it is the exercise of the humility of recognizing that we are agents of transformation, under the conditions that the country has, under the conditions of responsibility that the country demands us. And those who, for example, have always shouted against the renewal of the normal 35-hour work plan are those who now accuse us of having done so. With regard to government policy and programme, we have only one thought and one line of orientation, we do not have, for that, fortunately for us, what is a stupendous zigue of others that leaves us without reference points, including for the political debate, because we do not know what will be said on Monday or what will be commented on Tuesday. We will continue to fulfill our obligation, telling the Portuguese, eyes in the eyes, that there is a lot to do, that we have a lot of work ahead of us. People need to realize that we are working seriously and willing to improve the answers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u93	To put questions, you have the floor to Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u94	Mr President, Minister of Health, it is a pleasure to see you in the debates here in Parliament because we thought you were with some safeguard. We imagined until we could be with some flu, but we realized that perhaps it was because of so many health professionals' challenge. Mr Minister, the graces we have been used to, those graces which Mr. Prime Minister has also used to us here in the 15-year debates, are not very funny! His duty, as Minister of Health, is to answer directly the questions that these Members elected by the Portuguese people ask him. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u95	It is not to make jokes about the misfortune of people, because it is two and a half years to wait for an ophthalmology consultation that is not improving any response times, Mr Minister. Who is a liar is not the PSD bench, there is some truth in what you say and in what you say. Mr Minister, with regard to what is happening in the National Health Service and the truths that Mr António Sales has just mentioned, it is indeed true that everything is so good. It is so good that the debt of SNS to suppliers has increased by 37 % since you are in government, i.e. over EUR 2000 million. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u96	So, it's all wonderfully good! And it is in such a good way that they are the health professionals and it is the Doctors' Board of Directors who have come to establish something more or less similar to an advertising spot that existed a few years ago, which was "there is a line that separates...", Minister - this time it is a red line that sets it up for health professionals - saying that you have the SNS in a dire situation, that you are isolated and with little strength, and in fact you must be, Minister. last week, I asked Mr. Secretary of State if he remembered who had been the Minister who had been saying, here in November 2017, that until 31 December, we would make a reinforcement in hospitals in terms of cash, 400 million and an increase in social capital of about 500 million euros and that at the beginning of 2018, it would be more than 500 million euros. What we know, Minister, is that 500 million have been transferred to hospitals, but we also know that Mr. Minister of Finance, which is what he sends there in his ministry, has engrossed the 500 million euros—they are there waiting to know there God until and why. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u97	Mr. Minister, there's one more thing I wanted to ask you. It is the Court of Auditors that says that your Ministry is in an extremely weak economic and financial situation, but it says more, contrary to what Mr. Minister has already said today, he says that SNS' own funds have reached the lowest value since 2008, Minister! So everything you just told us is just what we're used to: it's all a fallacy. Therefore the numbers on the SNS portal do not agree with the other reports submitted by the entities. Mr. Minister, waiting lists are deleted in Castelo Branco, the union of the nurses of the Guard demands more professional... And after what happened in 2017, with so many people who had been taken to the hospital in Coimbra to be treated for, unfortunately, being burned by fires, you decided to extinguish the pediatric care unit of the hospital in Coimbra, which we found, in fact, unbelievable. Mr Minister, a final question, and for this I hope a direct answer and not one of those graces that you have already used to us...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u98	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u99	I am sorry to be bothering you and bothering you, you are moving your arms... But, look, it is what is, it is the reality of the country, that which you deny with your graces, that people are having fun here in Parliament. Mr Minister, we would like to know what it is like to categorized suppliers. Answer me, Minister, directly : what is this "categorized payments"? Is it you to choose who you want to pay first, or is it to do what you have an obligation to do, which is to pay who you already have more time to receive? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u100	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health, Adalberto Campos Fernandes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u101	Mr President, Mrs. Angela Guerra, I begin by saying that, with the transformations on your bench, I thought we were going to have another working session and less a vulgarity session in language. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] But I'm not going that way, Mrs. Deputy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Do not think that it is for the honourable Member to lower the level of speech that I follow you, because, in that, I do not follow you, Mrs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are not here, during parliamentary sessions, changing style, our style is always the same. Madam Member, by removing the part of the less appropriate language, we are now going to the questions you have raised. Mrs Deputy, the EUR 1, EUR 4 million have been announced and implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u102	Have they been? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u103	at the end of last year, the centralized allocation of 400 million was transferred and the statutory capital of EUR 500 million was titrated in EPE hospitals and is planned, as it has been said, a second reinforcement at the state capital level of EUR 500 million. Mrs Deputies, on the subject of you being involved in politics using external agents, which, in theory, do not have a political vocation, I would just point out to you that this mixture of cantonaries and politics and cantonaries is becoming more and more dangerous.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u104	It's bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u105	Look, it's not going well, Your Honor. It doesn't work well and I recommend that you do politics in Parliament with me, because here we are political agents,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u106	Answer what I ask you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u107	... do not use as a non-political agent mule. On the other hand, on his own experience, he should know that this poses some risk. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, on Pediatrics in Coimbra, Member of Parliament, I must say that what will be created in Coimbra by our government is what does not exist. There has never been a unit of pediatric burns in Coimbra. There were, yes, two beds dedicated to this purpose, and we will create the unit of pediatric burns in Coimbra. Coimbra, precisely because of its position in the territory and the quality of the hospital center it has, justifies to have it and will have it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the question of safeguard, I must tell you one thing, Mrs Deputies: if there is one thing that has not yet been noticed, is that the Minister of Health is all less afraid, has very little fear or would not be in public life, nor would he be Minister of Health, it would be anything else. Therefore, the idea that I am looking for because there is a dispute is manifestly exaggerated. Just look at the news and see my agenda to know that I walk every day on the street, probably more exposed than you Exa, and with all the pleasure. Finally, I imagine that the honourable Member does not have specific economic training, neither do I, my degree is not in economics, but I have been learning, and they have already explained to me what it is to 'categorise' and 'circularise'. And there is one thing that is right, Mrs Deputies, precisely aims to do what matters, that the suppliers that have been longer behind the delay are the first to be resuscitated. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u108	To reply, you have the word Mrs. Angela War.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u109	Mr President, Minister of Health, in the face of the answers you have given us and the terms you have used, I say to you: to use terms as "vulgarity", with regard to what I said about your graces, is basically Mr Minister, to reach a level that no longer deserves to be answered. [[PS protests.]] Your duty, as a minister, is to answer the honourable Members — that is why you are here — and the legitimacy is what I have and the people have given me. Your duty is to answer me, Minister, whether you like the way I put the questions to you or not. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u110	Mr Minister, I liked your reply regarding the categorization of late payments. I hope that's exactly what you said. The question was not innocent and we are waiting to see how this categorization will be done. However, as far as the direct question I put to you is concerned, we still do not have a direct answer. Today, February 23rd, what exactly is the amount of debt that SNS hospitals have already paid their suppliers? I'm not interested in your announcements, Minister. It has already announced here in November that it would transfer such 1400 million: there were 500, plus 400 and more 500 — that is what it is! Of course, so far they haven't received anything yet. So answer: is it for when? Is it the minute, is it the second, or is it tomorrow? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u111	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u112	Mr President, Mrs. Angela Guerra, I do not want to get into controversy, of course, about the qualification of interventions and the style of each one. Everyone has the style that they have and, above that, they have the style that they deserve. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] In relation to late payments, the additional reinforcement made at the end of the year of EUR 400 million has served to pay off debts to suppliers and the 500 million currently being dealt with between the IGF ( General Inspection of Finance ) and the ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ) will serve to strengthen payments, as will also be used to pay the next 500 million instalment that is planned. I leave you with one final note, Mrs. Angela Guerra: we have all realized for a long time that, in the first two years, we have lost the championship of the diabolization of the economy, employment and growth, we would have to see which side you were on. Therefore, the devils who were being oriented towards the performance of the economy are now being oriented towards us. But, Mrs. Member, the good news is that here too, the devils will not arrive. Be calm, be calm,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u113	I'm so calm!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u114	...because there's only a little more than a year and a half left to see that the devil has not arrived. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u115	To put questions, you now have the floor, on behalf of the Parimentar Group of the Left Block, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u116	Mr President, Minister of Health, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I should like to say to you, with all due respect, that it is regrettable that the problem of access to specialist consultations by people who wait long months to access them is considered a detail in the health system.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u118	They are not a detail, they are a «pormaeur»! Access and availability are the essence of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u120	Therefore, it is also regrettable that there are late months, almost a year, to place the professionals needed for the National Health Service. We have already set the example of Gaia's hospital, which has been firing professionals who were, and are, necessary all year round and who must be reinstated. On this point, the Minister said that it depended on the autonomy of administrations and institutions. But the Minister knows, as we know and as everyone knows, that this autonomy does not exist. Institutions must ask the Ministry, therefore the Government, to allow them to hire. Therefore, if there are professionals who are being fired or hired, the responsibility lies with the Minister. And if they are being fired professionally, it is Mr Minister who must tell the institutions that they must be hired permanently. I repeat, permanently! We know, because we are around, because we also know the street, because we also know the National Health Service and because the institutions often tell us, that they, when they need to make replacements of professionals who have been absent for illness or for any other reason, have to ask permission from the government and many of them have no deferral, that is, these contracts are not authorised. Now, I must tell you that the Left Block will deliver a legislative initiative to the House of the Republic today, which aims to solve this problem, since the Government has been insufficient in its resolution. We want more autonomy for contracting by the institutions of the National Health Service, and this is also a responsibility of the government. Mr Minister, is it your responsibility, will you or will you not hire all the professionals who have been placed under the contingency plan? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u121	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u122	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, which is very clear to you and the House, that the Government under no circumstances devalues the particular case of this particular hospital, which, of course, deserves our greatest concern. What we cannot do is, from the concern we have with particular cases, distort reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u123	It's nothing unusual about that answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u124	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, in Portugal we have 49 EPE hospitals ( business public entities ). Between 2015 and 2017, more than 50 % of existing specialties in these hospitals improved maximum response waiting times and 90% of these specialties met the waiting times. Mr, we are much better than we were in 2015, but we don't have all the problems solved. There are areas in the country, as you mentioned, particularly in the Algarve, in the interior and in the north, where the problems are still very acute, but we will not rest for one minute until these problems are diminished and resolved. Make it very clear that this is our daily concern. It is only not fair that, from the particular cases, which are serious, a cloak of concealment on the effort of the country, the SNS as a whole, to improve. Mr Moisés Ferreira asked me if we are going to hire all the contingency plan professionals. The Office of the Secretary of State that directly protects this area will hire all those who are necessary — strictly and only those. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u125	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u126	Mr President, Minister of Health, the 12 nurses who were fired from Gaia hospital were necessary, and were not hired. They were fired. last year, there were many professionals who, after March, ended the contingency plan, were fired and needed. That is why we say that the legislative initiative that the Left Block is going to present today is necessary, so that all the institutions of the National Health Service can have autonomy to hire the professionals they need and do not have to go for authorization from the Government, and many of them are not even given. He said: « We are better than in 2015, but there are problems that need to be solved ». It's true. But many of these problems could already be solved and many of them have to do with hiring professionals. It is incomprehensible, Mr Minister, that there are hospitals that need to hire operational assistants, senior diagnostic technicians, nurses, due to temporary absence of work, and that they are not able to do the same contract. However, in order to solve this problem, the Left Block argues that the institutions have effective autonomy to hire these professionals - this is the proposal that we bring today to the Assembly of the Republic for this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u127	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u128	Mr President, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, you are quite right when you say that, in what is pressed and identified as necessary, the answer has to be rapid, and this still happened yesterday, with the authorization granted for the hiring of nurses for the hospitals of Algarve and Évora and for the Hospital de Santa Maria. And this will be the procedure followed. Mr President, with regard to substitutions, there is no limitation. I must say that, monthly, the Health Secretary of State, in conjunction with ACSS, automatically authorizes, from now on, all requests for replacement related to the absence of professionals, either by disease or by maternity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u129	To put questions, you now have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Teresa Caeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u130	Mr President, Minister of Health, I find it unbelievable that the CDS is complaining about hearing professional orders and health professionals and following a demanding agenda. I do not know what Mr. Minister would be waiting for, it would certainly not be that we are behind the propagation that Mr. Minister does and that it is reproduced by Mr.António Sales in a way, indeed, exemplary. Let us, then, talk about such a reality, as the Minister says, and about the truth. I will say what is this truth: according to an evaluation, which is made every year, to 35 health systems, according to objective and concrete indicators — this assessment is made not to health professionals, not to professional orders, but to the point of view of users of 35 health systems— Portugal is, this year, worse than it was last year and worse than it was in 2014. So how does the Minister come to say, with all this propaganda, that we are improving? Oh, my God! We are coming down from position, i.e. we are not going down in terms of placement but we are going down 28 points from last year, and I will tell you, Minister, in what aspect. in this evaluation, we are incarnated regarding: the problem, direct access to consultations with specialists; the high waiting times for diagnostic and therapeutic examinations in an unacute situation;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u131	... to the extreme difficulty of access to dental health care, in fact, we are in the second worst place, behind us is only Latvia ; to the high rate of cesareans ; to the very high prevalence of hospital infections resistant to the most common antibiotics – also here we are in the second worst place, behind us only Romania. Mr Minister, we are in yellow, and they are considered very serious situations, with regard to a huge difficulty in access to family doctors and the homes of elderly people, as well as continuing care. Mr President, do you still want to tell us, with your propaganda, what are we improving? Oh, my God! No, Minister, we are getting worse, and this is in accordance with objective and international data revealed by a non-governmental organization. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u132	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health, Adalberto Campos Fernandes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u133	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Caeiro, I am making a challenge to you: you have a willingness to sit with me to read the report together, so that we can actually do an analysis of it, because you must not have read the same report as I have.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u134	Li, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u135	The honourable Member has omitted relevant facts, but this must be propaganda. To say that we are ahead of the United Kingdom, Spain and Italy is surely propaganda. The fact that we're in 14. the place, where Portugal, in the area of health, is better than, unfortunately, in other areas where we are not so well, it is also propaganda. The fact that the Euro Health Consumer Index has changed the indicators and the score, which allows for this type of reading that Mrs Deputies has made, should also be propaganda. Mrs Teresa Caeiro, let's go to parties: all that is real, factual and probable is propaganda. In fact, I greet you for the delicacy you have had to praise Mr António Sales. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] According to the honourable Member, everything that is not real, that is perception or that has come from another entity that no government is the reality. Mrs Deputy, I have not criticized Mrs Deputy or the CDS for sticking to the agenda of professional orders. In fact, this is normal even for reasons that are understood and are public knowledge. Now, I don't think it's much! It was good that, in addition to what is the demand agenda of any one of us—to certainly begin by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which hears professionals with concern, whether trade unions or orders—we would understand what is the driving thread of the political programme for the health of the CDS. It is that I too have some difficulty, at the end of two years, to understand, and that is, Mrs. Member, that I would very much like to discuss with you. As for the qualification of information, this is the following: if we like information, it is true and factual; if we don't like it, it's propaganda. Madam Member, one thing I leave to you as a guarantee: we will continue to inform the Portuguese about what we are doing, and, as I tell you, it will be a pleasure to report in October 2019 and compare the comparable with the comparable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u136	For a reply, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u137	Mr President, Minister of Health, he also has the assurance that the CDS will continue with its agenda, that the Minister and the country know very well: we will continue to insist on better health care for all Portuguese in such important areas as continued care and palliative care. And you know perfectly well that such care is very short of what you need and your promises are. As I have just said, this report was made on the basis of the hearing of users, not of professional orders, to which there is no collage, Minister. The Minister did not respond to the problems raised by this assessment and where we are indeed incarnate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u138	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u139	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Caeiro, the report is public and I therefore believe that the community in general, not only you but the country, can see whether the analysis made by the CDS is better or worse than what is in the report. Obviously, we do not review this interpretation because it forgets to analyze the positive part, which are the green and yellow points, and the significant advance that the country had in the overwhelming majority of the indicators. Finally, Mrs Deputies, we recognize that over the years the CDS has had a great concern, particularly at the level of continuous integrated care, palliative care and mental health. And that is why we are very proud that, at the end of two years, we have increased to an unpublished number both institutional responses in different areas and responses to the household, particularly in integrated continuous care, in adult and pediatric palliative care and also in mental health. That is why, yesterday, we signed with the La Caixa Foundation a protocol of social responsibility which will further expand the answers at the end of life so that, in fact, the conditions we offer today, both at the hospital level and at home level, can go to meet what the Portuguese deserve, which is, when they age and have health problems, to be treated with respect, dignity and attention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u140	To put questions, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u141	Mr President, Minister of Health, the CFP would like to bring here a topic, which has already been addressed, which is that of primary health care. In discussions with the Minister and the Government, the CFP has been asking questions about the means, in particular in terms of equipment, vehicles and facilities, on professionals, from doctors to operational assistants, which is of concern to the CFP and in which it has been intervening. Today we are going to introduce a draft resolution on strengthening proximity to primary health care populations, with a set of proposals and contributions from the CFP on these matters. The first question I would like to ask has to do with the construction or requalification of health centres. In 2016, she spoke at 34 health centers. Up to a response that the PCP Parliamentary Group received from the Ministry there is a list of these 34 health centres. at the beginning of 2018, we spoke in 64 health centers and the Minister, today, here, spoke in 110 health centers. However, from the initial list of the 34 health centres, we know that there are some situations that are already resolved, but there are others that continue, without people knowing what will happen and without an end to sight. So continue to advertise and increase the number of health centres to intervene without solving the expectations that will be created — legitimately created, because people have needs — creates a problem here. Another question I would like to raise, Minister, has to do with professionals. The Minister has already mentioned, here, an increase of more than 7500 professionals in the National Health Service in two years. We know that this increase will not be the same for all categories, until there are some who maintain many difficulties, but we do not realize why, if there are more professionals, in some cases, the answer retracts. For example, users reach the health center, and we have the Corroios case, and they verify that, after all, the time is reduced, in terms of the support that is given to users without a family doctor, and, above all, this happens because there are higher orders not to have these answers. Mr. Minister says there are more, but in some cases people feel in the skin that there is less. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u142	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health, Adalberto Campos Fernandes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u143	Mr President, Mr Ramos, with regard to the number of health centres I have mentioned, we have, fortunately, been increasing it because we have been able to deepen cooperation protocols with various authorities. That is, as a result of these protocols, this number has been increasing progressively. The large number is concentrated in the region of Lisbon and Vale do Tejo, with about 57 health centers, then the North region, the Centre region, the Alentejo and the Algarve. This means that, for two years now, shortly after the end of the Legislature, all of these 110 health centres will be complemented and we will have a very high renewal rate in the primary health care network. As you have said — and very well — for those who are already built and who are not going to have a renewal it is necessary to maintain it, it is necessary to keep it, and often they are small works of ventilation, air conditioning, access, and this is also being done. Regarding the issue of the particular functioning of units in particular, I answer as I have already answered in previous questions: "Of course, we have a vision, which is a national vision, and we have made a great effort in recruiting 7500 professionals." Mr. João Ramos, in a specific hospital, I can have all 42 medical specialties filled out, but if there is a lack of an anesthetist or a surgeon, there are areas of the hospital that simply don't work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u144	They're not working! That is why these shortcomings are more serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u145	It is a work of high complexity that has to be done in consultation with the ARS (regional health administrations) in regional planning, and must be done in consultation with hospitals because, often, we have situations in which the effective hospital is complete— from an abstract point of view, the number of people who are in the hospital is sufficient—but, if the radiologist is missing, if the pediatrician is missing, this hospital is dysfunctional. The same thing happens to primary health care, because I can have a complete USF (family health unit) with doctors and nurses, and working very well, but if you don't have an operational assistant or if you don't have someone doing the administrative work, the USF doesn't work well. Mr President, it is a very complex work for which we do not deny the difficulty and we do not cast responsibility. We will do everything that, as the months go by, these problems will be improved, but, of course, it would be foolish for me or any other political leader in functions equivalent to my saying that we will have the complete resolution of the problems in a short time. It will take time, it will require effort, it will require a lot of organizational intelligence and a lot of cooperation between entities and, of course, it is not, in abstract, to have more 7000 or more 8000 professionals to solve the problem of specificity in particular and the category of specialisation of the resource. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u146	Mr João Ramos has the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u147	Mr President, Minister, we note that we have been told that the number of health centres has been increasing, but the fact is that in this area the authorities are forced to assume responsibilities that are not theirs. With regard to permanent deficiencies, we understand and that is why the CFP says there has to be a programming for structural investment, because the investment cannot be made just to come, to respond to the ruptures at every moment that arise. There is a question here about professionals, and the Minister knows that we do not follow it, that it is that we have come to agree with the social sector to respond to the lack of doctors. Again recently, we had a response from the Ministry regarding Benavente and also the Setúbal district on this matter, which the CFP does not follow, because if there are professionals available to be hired by Mercy, there is no reason not to be hired by the Ministry. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u148	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u149	Mr President, Mr. João Ramos, allow me to share with you also on the issue of investment that is the current situation in 2018. We have in the State budget EUR 160 million for investment and are associated with this value the PO SEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use), whose overall value will be close to EUR 100 million. We have, as the honourable Member has mentioned, many partnerships with municipal chambers, whose investment, partly by the authorities, is made on behalf of the people and of the public interest. We have the new hospitals on launch. by adding this set of investment initiatives today on average we have more than twice the investment that was made from 2011 to 2015. If you ask me if that's enough, I say it's not. Until I tell you more: if there were conditions in the country, if there were resources, if there was financial availability without compromising the public finances and the growth of the economy, the SNS, after the state in which it stayed in 2015, would need, for investment, a real Marshall Plan. And a Marshall Plan would mean massively allocating financial resources to rapid transformation, modernization of equipment and infrastructure, but we have to be realistic and realize the context in which we move. Still, we are running out of the largest investment programme in the legislature and also in recent years. On the question of the social sector's point of view, Mr Ramos, we, among a public response that does not yet exist, and the lack of response to people, clearly choose to temporarily respond to people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u150	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Elza Pais.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u151	Mr President, Minister, the SICAD (Intervention Service on Addictions and Dependencies) recently presented in this House a report on the country's drug, drug addiction and alcohol situation. A report, moreover, of great quality that reflects the quality, rigor and competence of professionals in the area. Professionals who, it is appropriate to say, very resiliently, had witnessed, in the previous government, the dismantling of the IDT (Instituto da Druga e da Toxicodependência ) that worked well, the dismantling of a structure that was structured and articulated. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has criticized this option, time has shown that we were right, and today you already recognize it. And we know it's not easy to rebuild what was destroyed. Mr Minister, we know that a working group has been set up to present new alternatives to the restructuring of these services. Question : When is this restructuring going to take place? Can you tell us which model is going to be adopted? Another question has to do with consumption. There are positive aspects, with regard to the consumption presented in this report, from the outset on on the increase in the perception of young people in the face of risk — one of the aspects which I stress with a positive note — but also about the collection, for treatment, of cannabis users. In fact, it is the most consumed drug, as 50 % of new users are cannabis users, and it was very difficult to attract these consumers to treatment. That is why these aspects are very positive. But, Minister, there are worrying issues, such as the increase in cannabis and alcohol consumption among women and older people. More: the high consumption of alcohol, to which the crisis was not outside, is associated with 41% of situations of domestic violence and, as is known and is also said in this report, reaches 280 000 people. Therefore, these consumptions have also increased as a result of the crisis that the country has experienced, with very serious consequences, obviously, for the health of people, such as liver diseases, etc. So I ask, Minister : what are the new strategies for prevention, treatment, primary health care, for these new sociological realities, for these new risk situations? Is the SNS closer to what Mr. Minister has just spoken about, and does he also consider the issues of alcohol and drug addiction? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u152	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u153	Mr President, Mrs Elza Pais, I would like to associate myself with your intervention, stressing the importance for the country of work of all teams, including those of SICAD, which have developed in multidisciplinary terms on the ground. We have had a remarkable performance in international terms. Today, we are considered—as is known and recognised—one of the best experiences and this work is due to the hundreds of professionals who are part of SICAD, for which the Government is currently finalizing the decision-making process towards the structural and organizational adjustment process that can not only add value to the continuity of the work that has been done but also allow them to do so in more favourable conditions. As Mrs Elza Pais pointed out, in terms of additions and the evolution of dependencies, we have had a history, which is positive. We are very pleased with all the results obtained in the different areas. He has focused on a specific group, which is the group of young women, girls, as must be the target of a specific concern, and he is being, as always. The link between the Under-Secretary of State and Health, which protects the area, the SICAD itself and also the national network of primary health care in the proximity strategy, aims to immediately implement strategies that deepen the action on this group and ensure that these new emerging consumptions—and alcohol is not a new consumption—that, in the light of new regulations that may arise, are framed, so that we can protect our young people more and that this work, in this area, can actually have good results. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u154	To put questions, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u155	Mr President, Minister, in fact, the country's patients have been witnessing a gradual deterioration in the quality of the services provided by the National Health Service, and this week the Minister came to define that the Minister of Finance was the « public enemy number one » of health in Portugal. [[It's true, too!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u156	If not, we see: when we see the growing lack of basic working conditions, from Santarém to Faro, from Hospital do São João to Hospital D. Estefânia, we realize that the Minister of Finance is responsible. When doctors say there are no minimum conditions and they have to take disciplinary responsibility exclusion documents, where they say they are unable to provide the best health care patients need, the blame lies with the Minister of Finance. When, contrary to what Mr Minister says, the waiting times for consultations, the waiting time for surgeries, the waiting time for complementary diagnostic examinations, the blame lies with the Minister of Finance. They are increasing, contrary to what Mr Minister says, waiting times for consultations, waiting times for surgeries, waiting times for complementary diagnostic examinations, and the blame lies with the Minister of Finance. The human resources, which are so necessary, continue to wait to enter, even now, the 700 specialists had to wait a year for them to be placed. Whose fault? It's from the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Health has negotiated with the union of nurses, promising additional remuneration to specialist nurses, and has not fulfilled the promise, blaming, again, who? Mr. Minister for Finance. Hospitals are unable to cope with debts and are unable to make investments, the result of captivating. Whose captivating? by Mr. Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u157	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u158	And the 35-hour contracts, so promised? Oh, my God! Has passed 2016, 2017 and now, in 2018 is it? Whose fault? It's from the Minister of Finance. Mr Minister, I would like to see — and I would like to ask you this question in your eyes — what Mr Minister has defended within the Council of Ministers, what has been the position of the Ministry of Finance and what has now been the position of Prime Minister Antonio Costa in the face of the successive blockades of the Minister of Finance to the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u159	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u160	Mr President, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, I understood well the exercise you have tried to do, to repeat ten times something that is not true to see if it becomes true,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u161	That's what you do every day! What is your admiration? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u162	... but, Mr President, I will explain to you how the Council of Ministers, the Government and the relationship between the Ministers works. That is how Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite: more than 800 million health-related health-related diseases in current transfers than in 2015 — it is not little, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, in view of what had been the abrupt reduction of 1000 million in the previous period; more than 7500 professionals — it is not little, Mr. Member; more care activity, more therapeutic innovation, which is worth many million euros and which, in the time of the previous government, you supported, was all in the drawer. Not that episode of hepatitis C, in this House, nor the therapeutic innovation in this area would have been released. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, honourable Member, an area that you know very well, at the end of 2015 at this time, there were 5000 patients/ 5000 authorised treatments today there are almost 19 000. This is where the Council of Ministers is actually able to resolve health. Mr President, let us now exercise the following reality and not fiction. Mr Deputy, within the general line of your party, has repeatedly painted a picture, which is the framework that is appropriate for you to paint. Mr Member, go see each of the hospitals in the country—if you want to, until we can go both, I like that, we can combine at the end of the debate —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u163	I've been waiting for you since last time!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u164	... because, in all, investment processes are under way or authorized. Is Mr. Deputy here talking about Santarém? Oh, my God! Look, as far as the works of Santarém's operating block are concerned — do you remember, Mr? Oh, my God! — go to the books and records from 2011 to 2015. in the Algarve, 5 million euros of investment are currently being executed. But we can go through the country and we can go see. If I wonder if we really would like to have these works and this investment all completed today, I tell you that of course we would like to, but it is being done so that professionals have more working conditions and greater resolution capacity. Finally, with regard to this idea that I blame the Minister of Finance, where did you hear me blame the Minister of Finance for something? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u165	In an interview you gave!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u166	on the contrary, Mr President, I have always said that the relationship between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance is exemplary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u167	Wonderful!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u168	Now, when faced, on Wednesday, with a very simple question, which was to know what was missing for the contest, I said the truth: there was a missing signature. And you know why? Because Mr. Minister for Finance was in Brussels and arrived on Wednesday afternoon. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u169	It was 10 months! Mr. Minister is more concerned about Brussels!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u170	So, look, I'm responding to one fact and next week the contest will be there. You have to do better, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, you have to do better to find an innovative narrative that is not to invent a misfortune where it does not exist, hiding that which is also your responsibility, because at the time it was in operation, about the state in which you left what we are trying to rehabilitate today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u171	Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, from the PSD, has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u172	Mr President, Minister of Health, we have already noticed that Minister Mário Centeno, in the last year or the last 10 months when doctors were waiting, was in Brussels. He is concerned about Brussels, is not concerned about Portugal and much less about the National Health Service. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u173	Mr. Minister came here to talk about Santarém. I can also remind you of the IPO of Lisbon, where they were waiting for two years, when there was a bill for all works since 2015. He then spoke in the State Health Budget, saying he has the lower value of the last decade, compared to GDP. The country is growing and the government is investing in health. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u174	GDP has increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u175	Look, what is very clear in this debate, Minister, having returned over two years of management of this government, is that the person in charge of health is not the Minister of Health, who in charge of health is the Minister of Finance. [[PS protests.]] Therefore, Mr Minister, in the scrupulously fulfilling our mission, as Members of the Assembly of the Republic, the PSD Parliamentary Group will still present a request today to call on the Minister of Finance to the Health Commission to respond, before the Members and before the country, why it is continuing to block the necessary investments in health, which has affected, on a daily basis, the lives of millions of Portuguese, millions of patients in our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u176	You'll hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u177	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u178	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, it would be good if the public accounting and analysis exercises on the relationship between public spending and health were made with a little more rigour. With the GDP with which you left the country, any fragment of public spending came to health. You know what your problem is? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Your problem is that today we have the greatest public spending on health for the last six years and, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, we also have the best GDP, and that is what hurts you. [[PSD protests.]] What hurts you, indeed, is that you guys spat up the economy,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ...you have given up employment, you have left people living in deplorable conditions, with health implications that you, as a doctor, know. So now we realize that you didn't have a GDP, a GDP that left the country behind? Oh, my God! We are doing our best, we have the largest volume of public spending in the country, and now we are doing accounting juggling here, saying that, after all, as GDP is growing, expenditure is not enough? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u179	You now have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u180	Mr President, Minister of Health, said recently to the Left Block Parliamentary Group, that there is no limitation on hiring professionals, for example in case of temporary absence from work, but it is not true, because there is limitation and are the administrators of the hospitals who say so. The Minister will certainly not say that the administrators of public hospitals do not know the reality of their own hospital. But the good news is that, with the initiative presented by the Left Block today, to be approved in the Assembly of the Republic, there will be no such limitation. I would like to ask you another question, which has to do with the following: Mr Minister also said recently that private people have lost capacity to absorb professionals. We wanted this to be so, but we doubt that it is so, because the truth is that the capacity to absorb public resources continues to increase in private people and the public funding of private people also continues to increase. Data for 2015 said 51% of private hospitals were funded with public money. But if we were to see the 2016 data, we found that, for example, the number of public beds in the national care network continued and increased the number of beds in the private sector, including private institutions for profit purposes, having also increased the expenditure with conventional, private, to perform complementary means of diagnosis, which in 2016 reached almost EUR 400 million. So, Minister, I ask you a very specific question: what is the rationality of being closing 54 beds of internment at Pulido Valente Hospital to deliver them to the Santa Casa da Misericórdia, which will explore beds of the national care network? Is it or is it not to increase the absorption capacity of the private? Oh, my God! I ask you another question, Minister: why will the Pulido Valente Hospital close your imaging service at 15 hours and 30 minutes? A circular was distributed in the Pulido Valente, saying that the Imagiology Service no longer works from 15 hours and 30 minutes every day. Is this or does it not continue to pass to private a series of complementary diagnostic examinations? Oh, my God! Is it or does it not continue to increase the absorption capacity of the private, the public financing of the private, harming the budget of the National Health Service? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u181	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u182	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, on the question you have put, that of the substitutions, what is agreed with the Secretary of State for Health, and it has been transmitted to the hospitals, is that the substitutions will be made agile from January 2018 and this embarrassment that you have mentioned, that the hospital administrators have been giving notice, will be overcome. The honourable Member mentioned information, which, I believe, came in a daily newspaper on 51%. I was careful to read this news, or this work, and I must tell you that it is a deeply wrong job because it mixes things that are not mixed up. For example, consider it a private charge, which could be public, something that we consider absurd, which is the dispenser of medicines in the outpatient clinic. It's nobody's head, I think, in this House, nationalize the community pharmacy network and move on to distribute drugs with their participations through public pharmacy. This news also spoke of ADSE. Now, ADSE today is a participating public management institute, with private funding that comes to it from the discounts of its beneficiaries. So this is not about public money. Finally, Mr President, we will wait for INE data, but we have the preliminary information that in 2017 the public versus private spending trend has been changed in favour of public expenditure. Now, what we cannot compare is areas that are not comparable. The honourable Member said, well, that ideally we should do fewer complementary means outside the SNS and, at that, you are absolutely right. Public resolution must cause the invoice to be lowered to the conventional sector. Regarding the case of Pulido Valente, I do not know, I will try to understand why, but when it comes to a hospital, I admit that this is a measure of organization between the Hospital de Santa Maria and the Hospital Pulido Valente. As for the integrated continuous care beds, Mr. Moisés Ferreira knows that this network today has the greatest number of beds and answers of all time and that it has been formed, almost all of it, on a partnership with the social sector. These beds are very missing and it's a network that's been working well. The information I have about Pulido Valente is that these 54 beds have not been closed—they will have been temporarily closed—and what the President of the Hospital de Santa Maria and the Hospital Pulido Valente told me was that instead of 54, they would now open, in March, 58 beds of general admission. So that problem will be solved. On the issue of unnecessary spending with the private sector, this is our work and it is precisely why Pulido Valente will inaugurate, next year, an integrated diagnostic and therapeutic centre — the first clinic of public diagnosis, resolution, integrated — and will be the first, we wish, of several, that, in a single time, users may have their needs for complementary means of diagnosis and therapy solved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u183	You now have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u184	Mr President, Minister of Health, briefly, what the CDS has to say today at the end of this debate is that we note that it was indeed relevant and regrettable because the reality of health is even very serious and it was quite clear here that this government is not going to save the National Health Service. What we have seen today here, Minister, was a Minister closed on himself, on his own government, accused by his own supporters. And we saw him do, once again, an exercise of rhetoric, an exercise of propaganda, which does not, in any way, glue to reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u186	But we have seen more, Mr Minister, we have seen Mr Minister support for the cuts that the Minister of Finance is imposing on health, which is very serious and does not reassure us in any way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u187	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u188	I will finish, Mr. President. So at the end of these 60 % of the legislation, more than a question, here today, I would like to ask you: do not underestimate yourself, Minister, assume your responsibilities, for the sake of the National Health Service and the health of the Portuguese. The CDS will do its part, Mr. Minister. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u189	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u190	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, at times when I hear her, I feel that when we want to transform reality so much, it is even possible to transform a non-reality into something close to anything concrete. [[CDS-PP protests.]] And, if I may, it is this exercise that enables me now to make the return of some recommendations. Mr Member, do not turn away from reality and facts! Ask for independent information. See, on April 6, in the morning, the World Health Organization ( WHO) and the European Observatory for Health Policies and Systems make the mid-term evaluation of public policies in the sector. You're not going to tell me they're doing the government a favor, are you? Oh, my God! Surely you won't say that. The honourable Member is invited — indeed, she would be! — to be present at this session and to hear, independently, what is right and what is wrong, because indeed there is still much work to be done and the final report will be completed at the end of the legislature. Madam Member, I thank you for your recommendations, but do not worry about my state of mind or my framework in government, because it has never been as good, strong or as demanding as it is now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u191	You talked about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u192	The honourable Member is here to recommend that I not be sub-alternized. But, Mrs. Member, I am not subordinated.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u193	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u194	Believe me, I'm not. I am very proud to work in a government that did more for the country in two years than you could actually have done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Rice from PSD MP Angel War.]] Madam Member, I am very proud to work in a government led by a Prime Minister who has a vision for the country and thinks the country in the medium term. And, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto — perhaps that, to you, has caused you some discomfort! — I am also very pleased and very proud to work in a government where the Minister of Finance has the respect and consideration of Europe, to become President of the Eurogroup and to ensure that Portugal has respect for the external partners and the countries that relate to us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] So, Mrs. Member, be quiet. I finish by inviting you: come with me to see the truth and reality and do not close, do not subalternise, in the offices to see only what they tell you or what does not correspond to reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u195	Mr João Oliveira, from the PCP, has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u196	Mr President, Minister, the only way for all citizens to have the right to health is to ensure that, poor or rich, everyone has access to a qualified SNS (National Health Service ), with the ability to respond to the needs of users and with quality in the health care they provide. Therefore, the path cannot be that of PPPs (public-private partnerships) or that of referral of SNS users to private services. The path must be different, it must be that of investment in the National Health Service and, Minister, reality confirms this need. at Santa Maria Hospital, patients are informed that there is only 30% capacity for radiotherapy treatments, the remaining 70% of patients have to be referred to private services. In Lagos, the hospital facilities do not provide the necessary health care for the users of the municipalities of Lagos, Vila do Bispo and Aljezur and it is necessary to invest in the construction of a new hospital. In Évora, in addition to the progress that it is necessary to ensure in the procedure for the construction of the new hospital already in 2018, there are other investment needs. Mr. Minister, we did not devalue the investment that was made at the end of 2017 in imaging equipment for the Évora hospital, worth EUR 1 million and EUR 200,000, which is an advance in relation to the total cut imposed by the previous government, PSD / CDS. however, there are other investment needs that need to be assured, such as: increasing the number of beds in the intensive care unit, expanding the pediatric urgency, providing two block rooms for outpatient surgeries, expanding oncology or creating a second hemodynamic room. These are only a few concrete examples of the investment needs that exist, either in equipment or in infrastructure, in the SNS. The question I ask you, Minister, is what is the commitment that the Ministry makes for these investments, which are necessary? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u197	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u198	Mr President, Mr. João Oliveira, the question concerning the access of cancer patients to radiotherapy services is so important that we have given him high priority. That is why, at this time, it is being installed at the IPO (English Institute of Oncology) in Lisbon a new linear accelerator and that was authorized to the Hospital de Santa Maria the installation of two new linear accelerators, which will happen in a few months. This means that in Great Lisbon, the SNS is, for the first time in its history, fully autonomous in the treatment of radiation therapy for cancer patients. This is an advance, Mr. João Oliveira. Regarding the hospital in Évora, as you mentioned, well, there is an important investment in progress and, in relation to the hemodynamics room, it is authorized and will surely be realized. Mr. João Oliveira, now two years from the end of the Legislature, we are able to realize, materialize and make visibility to many investments that were in the process of project assessment and decision making. We believe that more than two-thirds of these investments will be on the ground for two years. Will that be enough? It will certainly not be so, Mr. João Oliveira, but I assure you - and that is the commitment I make here before you - that in 2019 the Portuguese hospitals will resume a path of investment, modernization, concrete initiatives, with concrete equipment and effectively reinforced human resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u199	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u200	Mr President, Minister, when we ask these questions is because we know the reality, we know the difficulties and we know the investment options that need to be made in the SNS to solve the user problem. We also know the starting point, we do not ignore the cuts that have been made over the years in the National Health Service and we do not forget the time of the previous government in which, in some hospitals, the diapers of the patients were made with towels and garbage bags.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u201	And now what is it?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u202	We do not forget the situation of impoverishment that has been imposed on the National Health Service, nor the consequences that these cuts have had and will certainly also last for a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u203	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u204	I will finish, Mr. President. in this regard, Mr Minister, without the government's options being different, only the speech does not change reality. There is one last look that I wanted to put, very quickly: that of the number of beds in the SNS. Between 2005 and 2015, there was a reduction of 4500 beds in the SNS and, at the same time, in the private sector, increased 2300 beds. This means that there are user needs, but there is a transfer from health care to public service to private business in health, and this is an investment that the government has to consider as well. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u205	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u206	Mr President, Mr. João Oliveira, with regard to this number of 4500 beds referred to, in the accounting that is made, in particular on the maps of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), the beds of PPP hospitals which are indeed beds of the SNS, and are not being considered as the integrated continuous care beds which currently exceed 9000. However, Mr. João Oliveira, you are absolutely right — I repeat, you are absolutely right! — because, nevertheless, in the area of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, for example, the reduction in the number of beds was beyond normal and that is why the ARS of Lisbon and Tejo Valley remained to present to the Government by the end of this month a map aimed at reviewing, at discharge, the lot of the hospitals of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, increasing their capacity, in particular in medical detention, because it is obvious that we cannot have situations, in some hospitals, in which the contingency plan lasts all year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u207	But that's not for acute patients!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u208	And it lasts all year. Why? Because there's a disqualification between the offer of boarding beds and what it's looking for. I quote two or three examples: Prof. Fernando Fonseca Hospital and Setúbal Hospital, among others. in this sense, at the end of this month we expect to have a proposal from the ARS of Lisboa and Vale do Tejo and the objective is clear: requalify and, contrary to what has been done so far, increase the number of public beds in the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u209	Can you increase the project of the Seixal hospital? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u210	You have the floor, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marisabel Moutela, to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u211	Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretaries, two years later, PSD and CDS continue — they do! — children, frozen, reduced,... [[PSD protests.]] ... by the repugnance that they violently feel by Portugal having a government that is of the Socialist Party and which, above all, is supported by the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens. It's your hatred for this left-wing government. Two years later, despite the change in leadership, the PSD is still in crisis, more divided and not able to guide its course, so that now the way is to try to create a crisis between the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance and limit the political debate on health to the first titles of printed and online newspapers. Mr Minister, let us be serious about the true national shame—and that, yes, is the true one! — which has involved this competition with the specialist doctors. What is really at stake here is the employment relationship of these doctors, their link to hospitals and the National Health Service and, consequently, their remuneration status. The national shame, the national drama, is to try to associate the delay in this contest with the lack of doctors, waiting lists or overloads in emergencies caused by epidemiological episodes. Mr Minister, since we are sure that they are more doctors who are concerned about health policy than to think of a new call not to be confused with the common doctors, we wanted to make it very clear here whether these specialists, already trained as such by the Order of Doctors themselves, are or are not performing specialized medical functions in hospitals where they are and whether or not they have a work relationship, which is not exactly that of the bond, being in no way to question the health care that they provide to the patients, because the manipulation that has been done around this competition, that is, is, a shame and a national drama. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u212	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u213	Mr President, Mrs Marisabel Moutela, allow me - before answering your question - to reaffirm what is the position of the Government and the Ministry of Health, in the face of all the professionals working in the SNS. We will never enter the game of those who want to instrumentalize a large number of people who, under very difficult conditions, in the years 2011 to 2015 guaranteed the necessary resilience to the National Health Service and continue to do so every day, in working conditions and even in very difficult functioning. We do not confuse this attempt to manipulate with the respect we have and with the will that we must continue to dignify professional careers, to revalue work and to pay justly — under the conditions in which the country can do so — recognizing the design of technical careers that effectively have a profile that motivates young people to set themselves in the SNS. therefore, there is the noise that there is, there would be the shout that there is, Mrs. Member, can be sure that the way of government is one: to ensure that respect for the public interest and the interest of the citizens with respect for the 132 000 professionals working in the National Health Service. I would also like to say to you, on the specific question which you are asking, which is a fact — and we have already taken it politically — that the competition should already be made and these doctors should already be provided in hospital assistants. They are in the SNS, but, of course, some of them will be even in hospitals where they are less needed when they could be in Santarém, in White Castle or in Évora. That is why we will correct this time that has passed, also recognizing that, in its overwhelming majority, they have not left the system, they are in the system. It is therefore urgent to give them what is the right status, the remuneration that is contracted for that status and, quickly, give them the opportunity to choose a hospital where they can perform their work in the coming years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u214	You have the floor, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr José António Silva, to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u215	Mr President, Minister of Health and other government members, Mr. Members, it is never too much to remember some truths: there are 700 specialists in the hospital area waiting for the opening of the competition almost a year ago and, until two days ago, there were 110 specialists in the field of general and family medicine who waited almost six months ago for the opening of the competition. Who is responsible for this situation, Minister? Oh, my God! Until the beginning of this debate, I have always thought that the person responsible was Mr Finance Minister. But, Mr Minister, after hearing, I have no doubt that the person responsible is the Minister of Health, as is responsible for the delay in hospital consultations, which, in many cases, is more than two years old, is responsible for the increase in waiting lists for surgeries, which already exceed 200 000 users, and is still responsible for the lack of doctors in health centres, where in some cases there are users without family doctors for more than two years. Mr. Minister is still responsible for the chaotic state that reached emergency care services in the National Health Service, where many doctors work placed by service providers, many of them indifferent. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: This is the reality, it is a situation by which the Government of the Socialist Party, with the support of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, is entirely responsible. From north to south, from the coast to the interior, we are faced every day with the chaotic situation experienced in health centers and hospitals in our country, in some cases with waiting times longer than 15 hours for care. From the lack of doctors to the lack of nurses, from withdrawing nurses from intensive care to place them in emergencies, from emergency services with patients with various diseases and without infection control, it is time for this government and the Minister of Health to humbly assume the failure of their policies and to no longer hold the previous government accountable for the degradation that is spreading in the National Health Service. I therefore ask you, Minister, how it is possible to reach this point. I also present to you a very concrete question: what exactly was the state's spending on medical services in the National Health Service? I do not ask you what your debt is, but I ask you what you spend on the National Health Service in the previous year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u216	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u217	Mr President, Mr António Silva, I very much welcome the challenge which I face and which, in fact, allows me one day to be able to pay back, asking about which responsibilities it attaches to your conscience. We are at the beginning of the responsibilities of this government. This government is responsible for, within two years, having made the largest number of hospital consultations and primary care; it is responsible for having operated the largest number of patients and indeed having done the largest number of surgeries; it is responsible for improving access in terms of reducing economic barriers, with the cut that was made in the moderate rates and with updating the access to transport of non-emergency patients; it is responsible for having the record number of transplants ever performed; this programme was seriously affected, as you know, in 2012 and 2013 by an early measure taken by the government that you have supported; it is responsible for the greater number of human resources that there is memory in the National Health Service; it is responsible for the recovery of funding;... [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] ... is responsible for the greater capital allocation, which will enable the National Health Service to stabilize financially; it is responsible for the greater gap in access to therapeutic innovation, in terms of medicines for cancer, for HIV/AIDS and for hepatitis C, among others. Mr. José António Silva, this government is responsible for being, like any government, humble.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u218	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u219	Humility is to recognize that there is much work to be done, but also in terms of investment, the history of what you are describing very much compares to the government. Mr President, I tell you this: in the midst of this confusion that we are seeing — we know that this is the strategy — you will do everything in the months that separate us from the end of the legislature, to create an insistent perception contrary to reality. Do you know why, Mr. José António Silva? Because you don't see very well the four-year-old confrontation with four-year-olds. From the beginning we feel this difficulty, because there is such an unfavorable evidence that they are now engaged in a game of responsibilities, inventing differences or divisions where they do not exist, because it also costs you a lot to have in front of a government that is one, that has coherence and cohesion in the policies that practice and speaks to one voice. That's what it costs you, but actually, I'm not responsible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u220	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Catarina Marcelino.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u221	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Under-Secretary of State for Health and Parliamentary Affairs, Secretary of State for Health, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there can only be an explanation for what we have seen here today by the PSD and the CDS : a memory blackout. That's the only explanation for what we heard here today. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is because, if it is not a memory blackout, it can only be political hypocrisy. It is regrettable that those who did what they did to the National Health Service... In addition, serious situations of this time have already been recalled today, such as the history of diapers that did not exist, with patients wearing towels instead of diapers. But I could also remember the sad situation that was seen — and many of us remember — in a hearing with the Minister of Health, a patient with hepatitis C asking not to let him die. Those who remember this are indeed amazed at the political hypocrisy we are witnessing here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is also regrettable that this vile attempt to say that whoever is in charge of health is the Minister of Finance. You are very, very wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u222	Speak to the bench on the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u223	You are very wrong, because you are forgotten. You are forgotten by your government, you are forgotten when the then Minister of Health was Deputy Minister Maria Luís Albuquerque. What you say happens to this government was what happened to your government! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I recall three government offices, one of 2011 and two of 2014, which made it necessary to submit to the Ministry of Finance, for prior authorisation, any new investment and health expenditure. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u224	And now, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u225	It was like this in your time!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u226	Now it's the same or worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u227	It costs you, but this is the truth. in the socialist government, there is cooperation. And cooperation means the results achieved. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] Of the EUR 1000 million that you have cut into health, 800 million has been recovered. This is cooperation in the government, it is not submission. This is cooperation in the government, cooperation between the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance! Whatever it takes, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to see that we have improved GDP, improved deficits, reduced debt and, at the same time, achieved such results: to recover 800 million of the 1000 million you cut in the previous government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u228	And the gentlemen left debts that we had to pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u229	This is the truth. The truth costs, but it is what it is. As much as you repeat, the lie does not become true. There are, in fact, structural problems. The Government assumes that there are structural problems, aggravated by your government, which have to be solved. And unlike the PSD/CDS government, what the current government is looking for are creative solutions. That is, incentives for the placement of doctors in the interior, plus half a million Portuguese with family doctors, the open competition this week, plus 110 family doctors placed, dentists in health centers... This had never happened in Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have more than 1000 responses in continuous care, plus 120 innovative drugs. What do you want more? Oh, my God! Do you want to come here and say that Mr. Minister is sold to the Minister of Finance? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u230	Sold? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u231	Is Mr. Finance Minister sending you to the country? Well, you're wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u232	The honourable Member is saying that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u233	We have a serious government, a government that is trying to solve what you have destroyed, because we have a starting point. The starting point is 2015 and, as Mr. Minister of Health says, well, in 2019 we're going to see the results, because we're in the middle of a trajectory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2019, let's compare with 2015 and let's see who respects the National Health Service, because Portuguese and Portuguese know well that the Socialist Party is always next to the National Health Service and will always be in defense of the health of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u234	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u235	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Marcelino, I can no longer agree with the analysis she makes when she says that, at the end of two years, we have made a national effort and, from a very difficult point of departure, which is denied and devalued by those who criticize us, we are recovering a very significant delay. Those who know the health sector well know the impact that has an investment stop of five, six, seven years. But for the PSD and CDS, this is of no importance because, in their opinion, they gave us the SNS « key in hand », ready to use. So we're starting not from the zero point, but from a very negative point, not anything. It is true, Mrs. Catarina Marcelino, that the great objective of the opposition, this increasingly fattened objective, would have been to interrupt the game in the middle, because truly what bothers them and afflicts them is the game to come to an end. As they could not interrupt the game in half, of course, it will be a second part in which the lack will be more directed to man and less to the ball. But here we are prepared, full of energy, to accommodate this kind of impact, with the will to serve the country, to serve Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u236	Mr Minister, do not talk about football because Mr Telmo Correia is also a commenter!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u237	Mr. Minister is armed in Bruno de Carvalho!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u238	You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Isaura Pedro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health and other members of the Government, primary health care is a clear example of the de-investment of the current government in the National Health Service. in more than two years that the Executive takes office, it created only 46 new family health units ( USF ), less than 9 of the 55 created by the previous government, between 2013 and 2015. As for the family health units created in 2017, there could hardly be a bigger trick.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u240	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u241	In January this year, the Prime Minister really missed this Parliament when he said that 23 USF was created last year. A few days later, the government came to say that it was 18, but by consulting the National Health Service portal, we verified that it was 16 and finally the National Association of the UFS says that, legally, none were created. What are we in, Minister? It is that in 2017 there was not even the publication of the office to determine the number of family health units to be constituted and, if the office was already published this month, the fact is that it does not set a minimum number of USFs to constitute. I ask you, therefore, it is formally guaranteed that this year the 30 family health units of model A will be formed, although there are already 33 applications. I also ask you why the government limits the possibility of progress for model B to 20 USF, although there are already 67 applications, many of which are approved by their respective ARS ( Regional Health Administration ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u242	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u243	I'm done, Mr. President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u244	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u245	Mr President, Mrs Isura Pedro, I confirm that in two years we have created virtually the same number of USFs as the Government that you supported in four years ; I confirm that this year we will certainly exceed the 30 USFs of type A ; and I confirm, Mrs Deputy, that according to the Electoral Programme and the Government Programme, we have planned, in this legislature, to do at least 100 and that, since we, at the end of this year, forecast to have 83 USF, this objective will certainly be achieved, if not exceeded. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-23.u246	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with this reply, the debate with the Minister of Health, which was part of our agenda today, is concluded. The plenary will meet again on Wednesday, 28, at 3 p.m., and will have as its only item on the agenda the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. I wish all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 18 minutes.]]
