ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. of the first item on the agenda is the joint discussion, in general, of Resolution Projects Nos 824 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Continental Platform and 907 / XIII / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the enhancement of the extension of the Continental Platform ( PS ). Mr António Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal will be bigger, Portugal will have more sea and the sea has always been a design of our greatness. We are all sure that the extension of the Continental Platform will be a fact and in this context of expanding our maritime borders autonomous regions, if any, the Azores, will have a vital contribution to the future surveillance and monitoring of our maritime area. It will be mainly through the autonomous regions which, geographically, will be larger. The privileged geostrategic location of the Azores requires that part of the Portuguese Navy resources be set in this region as well. We will be more Portugal, we will be more Azores and we will be more nation. In fact, this movement of means also translates into strengthening the autonomy of the Azores, an autonomy that gives projection and identity to Portugal. However, it is important to reiterate that autonomy needs to evolve, it needs adjustments to the current and demanding regional, national and European realities. We need to improve our autonomy in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. We look forward to a new constitutional review, because we aim to help transform Portugal into a more coherent and more internationally recognized country. in this sense, we consider it essential to strengthen the right of participation of autonomous regions in the negotiations of international treaties and agreements that concern them, as well as the benefits arising from them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u3	Mr João Azevedo Castro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The oceans place a new social and economic frontier with regard to the welfare and future prosperity of mankind. They are a source of food, energy, minerals, health, leisure and transport, of which hundreds of millions of people already depend. They are undeniable in the face of the challenges of population growth, food security, climate change, energy, innovation and sustainability, requiring care with excessive exploitation of resources, pollution, increased temperature, acidification and loss of biodiversity. The OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) stresses the potential to double the economy of the seas by 2030 to a value of $3 trillion in higher growth for many sectors than the global economy. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea addresses the continental shelf of a coastal State such as the bed and the basement of the marine areas that extend beyond the territorial sea in the natural extension of the land. Portugal created a Mission Structure, formalising a proposal for the definition of the outer edge of the continental margin in order of 350 nautical miles, extending the areas under national jurisdiction beyond the exclusive economic zone. The contribution of the Atlantic depth conferred by the Azores and Madeira will provide sovereign rights for about 3, 8 million square kilometres of living and non-living natural resources that it is important to know, protect, for a sustainable exploitation. We are thus faced with significant economic and social potential, in which countries and regions implement strategic policy frameworks that are intended to be concerted in order to better manage these resources. We live in an increasingly multipolar, rapidly changing world, where the challenges of regulation and governance are expected to become increasingly complex. It is in this context that the draft resolutions under consideration reinforce Parliament's attention to a process of this dimension and importance. We are talking about multiplying by 41 the immersed area of the national territory, occupying one third of the North Atlantic, about 90 % of the European Union area ; of geological structures such as the Star Fund, the Fall of Glory or the Ferradura; of underwater mountains to explore, such as the Great Weather, the Anti-Altair and Josephine ; of cobalt, titanium, zirconium, nickel and cerium; of polymetallic sulphors, such as copper, zinc, lead, silver and gold; of unsuspected environments, of high toxicity, with life that has developed resistances so far unknown; of several hydrothermal sources, such as the one identified in June, in the Giant, 570 meters deep, 60 miles from the island of Faial, in a portuguese expedition led by Portuguese scientists, with ships and national means. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We talk about sovereignty, we talk about knowledge and innovation, we talk about the blue economy, we talk about strategy, we talk about the government programme, we talk about the future, we talk about the Portuguese contribution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u5	Mr John Vasconcelos spoke for a speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the extension of the continental shelf, the scientific and economic importance of the country will undoubtedly be enhanced, with sovereignty rights for the exploration and exploitation of the natural resources of the soil and the marine subsoil of this exclusive economic zone. For the Left Block it will be essential to ensure the public domain of these resources without concessions to private interests and respect for environmental standards and economic decarbonisation. Is this what PSD and PS defend? It should be remembered that the PSD and PS defend the granting of our sea to private people. Does this mean that they want the state to defend the interests of large corporations and companies so that they can unleash natural resources without being disturbed? It is no longer strange the recommendation that the PSD presents here. Why is there such a hurry when the UN will only decide in the next two or three years on the Portuguese proposal? The real motivation of the PSD will have to do with the need to reaffirm the geostrategic importance of the Azores after the reduction of the US military contingent and consequent devaluation of this location for NATO. Recently, we have seen an effort both from the PSD and PS to invest in the Azores, in order to make the region more attractive to the interests of the United States of America and NATO. It is in this context that the Centre for the Defense of the Atlantic, in the Azores, which serves both the United States and NATO, and even, who knows, the future European army. Therefore the PSD recommendation, in particular, is only an incentive for the return of the Azores to the map of war and therefore in accordance with the policy advocated by the PSD – also by the PS and now by the CDS – the only credible way to boost the economy of the region. The concern shown here by the PSD does not lie with the need for means to monitor this fishing area and other resources in our exclusive area. If so, they would have defended this reinforcement when, about 20 years ago, the European Union liberalized fishing from 100 miles. At the time, PSD and PS did not move a finger to invest in the patrol of our seas. The Left Block argues that an effort must be made to ensure the defence of the soil and subsoil resources in this area of the Continental Platform, but that greater investment should not be limited only in the maritime guard, as air resources will also be needed and even using satellite reference. In short, the PSD raises a problem that exists, but in our view, in a demagogic way, because it seeks a simplistic solution that addresses its true motivation: to sell our geostrategic position to the geostrategic interests of the United States of America, NATO and also of the future European army. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u7	You have the floor for an intervention by the CFP parliamentary group Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : These draft resolutions refer us to the problem of the Portuguese claim to the extension of the Continental Platform. With regard to this, it is never too much mentioned that there is a significant set of workers affected by this mission unit that continue to be precarious. And since we are talking about the Continental Platform, before we talk about other very relevant aspects, we wanted to leave this reminder in the sense that it is important that the situation of these workers be regularized as soon as possible. They deserve it, and that's important. And it is not just a matter of merit, it is a matter of decency on the part of the State that these workers see their situation regularly. What is proposed in the PSD project, which is the one that was initially scheduled – in relation to the Socialist Party project we have nothing to object to what is proposed, has a broader approach to the issue of the Continental Platform, which is basically obvious: that the Portuguese Armed Forces, particularly the Navy, should have a permanent presence in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. I would say that not only in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, but also in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. That is, of course, that the Navy, like the other branches of the Armed Forces, should have a presence throughout the maritime area in which Portugal is responsible for affirming the sovereignty of the Portuguese State over these regions and taking on the responsibilities of Portugal as a sovereign State in all areas in which it is responsible. Obviously, for this, there must be means. Therefore, the question of strengthening the fleet of the Portuguese Navy on ocean patrol ships is fundamental. In fact, if it wasn't all the sabotage that the former PSD/CDS government did to the ship yards of Viana do Castelo, while they did not privatize them, we could have today a more significant fleet of ocean patrol ships and we could be much earlier in this matter. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] It is important that these ships exist and that there is a permanent presence of the Portuguese Navy in the autonomous regions. However, this has nothing to do with the Continental Platform, because whether or not it is extended, autonomous regions are there! They were already there and therefore irrespective of that, it is essential that this presence exists. By the way, it is important to say that the PSD resolution project has an extension that is inversely proportional to the extension of the Continental Platform. In fact, it is an absolute smallness and it is limited only to saying what is obvious: that the Portuguese Navy must be present in the Azores. It must be, yes, as it must be present in Madeira, as it must be present in the territory of the continent, in order to assume all the responsibilities that the Portuguese State, through its Armed Forces, must assume before all the territory which is under its sovereignty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u9	Mr João Rebelo also spoke for an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the PSD Parliamentary Group — and the PS Group, which later joined this issue — for bringing to this House a topic as relevant as it is, as it is, the Continental Platform, its extension and the responsibilities that this extension brings to the Portuguese State. Today we are discussing this issue not in its traditional association with the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea but in the view of the Committee on National Defence. And I am glad that this is the case, because this matter cannot be furnished with a broad perspective of national security and defence. It is not possible to speak of the economy of the sea, exploitation, protection and preservation of mineral, energy and biogenetic resources without ensuring the exercise of sovereignty over maritime space. Allow me to begin by making a formal and friendly criticism of the PSD. It would not have been wrong for the PSD to refer to the CDS-PP when it mentioned in the text of the draft resolution the PSD electoral programme to the 2015 legislative elections. The electoral programme for the 2015 legislative elections is not only the PSD but also the CDS — the coalition was PSD / CDS. The « commitment to assess the possibility of fixing part of the Portuguese Navy's resources in the Azores » was assumed not only by the PSD but also by the CDS. Debating the Continental Platform and its strategic dimension refers us to the Strategic Concept of National Defence, approved by the Government and discussed in the Assembly of the Republic in the past legislature. It is never too much to remember what he has in relation to this matter. This document, in order to defend the Continental Platform, states that it is necessary « to maintain an adequate capacity for surveillance and control of maritime space under national responsibility and interterritorial maritime space ». Ensuring the ability to monitor and control sovereignty spaces is not limited to the inclusion of this need in documents of a strategic nature, it is made specifically with the institutions and with the instruments of the State. I speak in general of the Armed Forces and in particular of the Portuguese Navy. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's important to be clear. The Navy is not improvising. The acquisition of new means is an absolute necessity and it is imperative that we place at the centre of the debate a new political element prior to the presentation of these draft resolutions under discussion, which is the Military Programming Act, which yesterday entered the Assembly of the Republic and which will deserve our deep discussion in the coming months. The Navy needs a constant renewal and updating of its means, because its abandonment would mean neglecting essential means, with the consequent inability to carry out the inevitable expansion of maritime surveillance and control missions. But the need for investment in the Navy team is neither comprehensible nor compatible with the application of captives or other budgetary tricks to which we have been watching. at this moment, the Portuguese Armed Forces have the lowest effects ever. Since 2004, since their professionalization, they have increased from 38 000 to 27 000. In December of this year we will reach the lowest ever number of military officers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u11	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u12	We all have to manifest the best projects and new missions to the Armed Forces. When this happens in the hands of a government that has failed to respond to this serious problem, which are the effects of the Armed Forces, and with budgets approved by the CFP, the Greens and the Left Block, we will have many difficulties in talking about new missions and new means for the Armed Forces and the Navy in particular. It is dramatic what is happening at this level in terms of human resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u13	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u14	I would just like to remind you, Mr President, and I end with this, that at this moment many effective workers working on Portuguese military vessels sometimes have missions of more than six, seven, eight months at sea without being able to return and be with their families. That is regrettable and I would like to highlight it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will vote in favour of the two draft resolutions, which are important for the future of Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u15	Mr António Ventura of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u16	Mr President, Mr John Vasconcelos, the honourable Member spoke of « selling », « war », « private»... You can see negative things in something that is positive. No one understands. We are not talking about bad economies or bad research, we are talking about a greater magnitude for Portugal, we are talking about the design that has always made us great, which is the sea. We're talking about more resources. We are talking about fixing greater surveillance, greater monitoring, both in the Azores and in Madeira, and you can predict a black future that no one can see! [[BE's protests.]] As for this black future that no one sees, we have said that you are always predicting the black of politics! This is a positive situation for Portugal! This is a positive situation for the autonomous regions! This is a positive situation for the economy of Portugal! Nothing negative here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u18	Unless you have a crystal ball that sees everything black, as the Left Block pointed out. Mr António Filipe, in fact, the CFP has stopped in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u19	Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u20	And it's still parked in time, because, after three years of supporting this government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u21	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u22	...it was already more than enough time to change what they think is wrong. They have lost all political legitimacy to continue to attack the PSD/CDS government as you have the tools in hand to change the state of things. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u23	The PSD Parliamentary Group also has 2 minutes to close this debate. To give the closing speech, Mrs Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The great national designs do not exist as sand on the beach, they are precious stones, because they are rare, are carved by vision, determination and cohesion around the projects that catalyze the development of a people. Discoveries were one of these national designs. The first globalization was catapulted by the Portuguese from the discovery of two islands: Porto Santo and Madeira. We are now celebrating the 600th anniversary of this great moment in our history. The Autonomous Region of Madeira is thus the Portuguese border of the South Atlantic. More precisely, it is in the purity of the sea of the Wild Islands, in its natural heritage, in the dominating silence of the plateau of the Great Island, in which we reach the vastness of our maritime territory. In geological terms, they were born before Madeira, as if the Forests had to be born first so that the Atlantic could be prepared for the arrival of Madeira. Our national sovereignty must be well founded on its border. The discoveries of the past gave rise to the new national design: the extension of the continental shelf. That's the geostrategic jewel of our time. This design brings challenges and places great responsibilities on the international governance of the seas and oceans. We need a holistic vision that involves autonomous regions so that Portugal can position itself internationally as a reference country and be a leader in terms of the sea. After five years since the adoption of the Law on the Basics of National Maritime Policy and Management, it is important to maintain Portugal's plan to grow by the sea, providing it with instruments that allow it in a sustainable way, providing the autonomous regions with these maximum borders of the maritime extension, with the increase of the establishment of resources of the Armed Forces, in order to guarantee national sovereignty. The extension of the Continental Platform is an example of another unique opportunity: Portugal, from the unique blue of the flowers to the purity of the sea of the Forests. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u25	Before we get to the next point in our work, I give the floor to Secretary Pedro Alves to report on a number of legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u26	Legalizes the cannabis for personal use, which goes down to 1. the Commission, with connection to 9. the Commission, and 1051 / XIII / 4. a ( BE): — Regulates the long-term transport of live animals, which falls to 7. the Commission. The draft resolution No 1855 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) : — Recommends that the Government submit to the Assembly the amounts of the Fund for Financing Decentralisation in 2019 and the Proposal for Law No 172 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) : — Approves the Military Programming Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u27	Mrs. Members, we will enter the second point of our agenda, which is from the evaluation of Decree-Law No 25 / 2018 of 24 April, which regulates the Cinema Law as regards measures to support the development and protection of cinema and audiovisual activities[ Parliamentary Assessments No 65 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ), 62 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ), 63 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) and 66 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ). The CDS-PP, as the author of the scheduling, has 2 minutes in the closure and the Government has another 1 minute. I give the floor to Mrs Vania Dias da Silva to open the debate on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u28	Mr President, Madam Minister — whom I particularly welcome because I am here today, because this Government has not always given due attention to parliamentary assessments — Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: A few months ago, the film and audiovisual sector was surprised by a regulation of the Film Law which, echoing the already usual sovereignty of this PS government, who thinks that everything can and does not need to hear anyone because he knows everything better than anyone else, managed to disagree with everything and everyone without exception. For this reason, the CDS and the overwhelming majority of the parties with parliamentary seats requested the parliamentary review of Decree-Law No 25 / 2018, which the CDS scheduled at the first possible opportunity after the discussion of the State Budget, as it had promised. It did so for a simple reason: in order to correct the mistakes of a regulation to which the impulses of the Socialist Government have led, hearing everyone without exception, in an attempt to find a solution that nearly all the needs of the sector and that overcomes the difficulties that have been made to feel, something so that the President of the Republic has, moreover, warned the President of the Republic when the enactment of this Decree-Law, who did so immediately "to avoid further delays" in the contests which, then, have already taken more than six months of delay. What we propose, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it does not revolutionize the previous model, rather. What we propose fits the previous model, improving it, giving it more transparency and objectivity and providing it with more and better scrutiny powers. A model that, said in favour of the truth, allowed this, in the harsh years of the troika, to be of the few sectors of culture that still could grow. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the CDS, it does not make sense that the Specialized Section of Cinema and Audiovisual, of the National Council of Culture, has a word to say in the formation of jurors lists but does not have it in terms of the scope of the issue, as regards priorities, criteria and the implementation of measures to support the development and protection of film and audiovisual activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u29	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u30	What makes sense for the CDS, therefore, is that the Specialized Section has an active voice and effective participation in the multi-annual strategic plan and not in the training of the jury, which, once again, because of efficiency and transparency, we propose that they become rotating. With this objective in mind, and after having heard everyone, including the President of the Party, Assumption Cristos, and having gathered the contributions of all interested parties, we withdrew the Specialized Section of the Jurisdiction and the choice of persons who compose it, moving it to the ICA (Instituto do Cinema e do Audiovisual ) and to the guardianship, but, on the other hand, we give a role to the actors of the sector in what is most important, more serious and more effective: a word on the evaluation of what is done by the ICA, with transparency, data and objective metrics, and a word on the future priorities and strategy for the film and audiovisual sector. Only then will the Specialized Section have true freedom to carry out its mission, leaving the executive decisions for those who must really commit themselves to them: guardianship. A role which only the State has and which cannot dispense the ministerial chancellor. Thus, there is more participation, more inclusion and more supervision. This is the contribution of the CDS so that we can all find the best model possible together. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u31	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The public service of art and culture is designed by the support of the State to free and independent production, which breaks with the imposition of a cinema monoculture defined by ticket successes or market criteria. To this end, adequate funding and clear forms of allocation of fair and due public support for cultural creation and production and, in this case, cinema should be ensured. This is also why the PCP presents this parliamentary assessment of Decree-Law No 25 / 2018, which regulates the Film Law in terms of measures to support the development and protection of cinema and audiovisual activities. The policy of strangulation of artistic and cinema production results in an increasing dependence on the market and, consequently, in greater subjection to the monoculture of large producers and distributors. Thus, in principle, the CFP also draws to this discussion the financing of support for creation through the State budget and not only and only through charges charged. With the proposed amendments that we are presenting today, we want the establishment of jurors' lists to ensure the rotation of elements, to be approved at the level of their constitution and selection and not subject to any validation or interference by the SECA, the Specialized Section of Cinema and Audiovisual, the National Council of Culture. We also want to strengthen the protection of the holders of the rights and authors of the works in terms of the use made by the ICA (Instituto do Cinema e do Audiovisual ) of the works supported for the exercise of their activities in promoting, disseminating and displaying the national cinema. We defend that the directors are extended the financial support that the Decree-Law only provides to the independent producer in terms of support for writing and the development of cinematographic works, as well as in terms of support for the completion of the work. We believe that, with regard to safeguarding the investment obligation, the free and affirmation of the free promotion of national cinematographic works supported by the ICA as a public service component should be ensured by dissuading valuations at table price and artificial inflation of the value of support granted. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we continue to have a problem of another order, at the level of the Law itself which originates the current Decree-Law under discussion, which lacks fundamental aspects in terms of ensuring the exhibition of Portuguese cinema, promotion and stimulation of non-commercial cinema, support for digitization itself, support for cinemas and cinema festivals. On these and other matters, the CFP will continue to intervene to ensure the right to creation and culture as a dimension and part of democracy itself. We believe it is possible, in the field of specialty, to go further and give a more adequate response to the needs, demands and what is necessary to do in order to effectively promote the development of Portuguese cinema in our country, with the active voice of all those who have made their contributions to the Assembly of the Republic, with which we are available to continue this dialogue. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u33	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, the constitutional and state support provided for film production depends solely on the provision of revenue from fees charged to private entities. This model has three problems: the first is that it is insufficient, as we all know; the second is that it resigns the state of investment in cinema through general revenue, not only in creation and production, but also in essential tasks in the archive, preservation and memory; and the third is that it opens the door to conflicts of interest between private entities that pay these contributions and decisions that are made in support of film creation, which is free and independent. This latter problem is precisely what is at stake in Article 14. the Decree-Law No 25 / 2018, which defines the rules of appointment of the jury of the contests. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, ICA is a public institution with its own and independent bodies which ensures the implementation of public policies for cinema and audiovisual, which regulates competitions, opens competitions and allocates support. On the other hand, the SECA, Section Specialized in Cinema and Audiovisual, of the National Council of Culture, is a purely advisory body that integrates the various interests of the sector, from directors to large distribution companies such as NOS, or television operators such as TVI. These large companies pay the fees financed by this sector, but there is no reason why, in the event of the appointment of the competition courts, the ICA's powers are reduced and the SECA has the power to press the decisions of the competition courts. Cinema is the only case, throughout the culture sector in Portugal, where the appointment of the jury of competitions for support for creation passes through the National Council of Culture. We should therefore ask: why? Why is cinema an exception in this appointment of contest jury? It is an exception because it is understood that companies that pay the fees must have a word to say about the decisions of artistic creation. In other words, these companies are seen and understood as some kind of shareholders in the sector and want to have their representatives and their interests represented when it comes to deciding on public support — public support! — independent creation. And the proof of this is that these companies threaten to stop paying the fee if this power is withdrawn from them. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something we cannot accept. We cannot accept that a regime of exception and conflict of interest is created and, above all, we cannot accept that the State and the cinema are held hostage to the commercial interests of the oligopolistic companies in the production of cinema and audiovisual production. The Block therefore proposes that it act in cinema as in the other areas of culture supported by the State and that ICA be guaranteed the autonomy and exclusive responsibility of appointing the competition jury. We are now ready to discuss and approve any proposal that goes so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u35	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u36	I will finish, Mr. President. We also propose, as has already been said, that the support for writing and development be given directly to the authors, argumentists and directors, without necessarily passing by the producers. We therefore believe that our proposals are sound and we hope that they will be able to count on the support of all parliamentary banks. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u37	Mrs Anne Sofia Bettencourt of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u38	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister for Culture, Mrs. Members: Today we appreciate the regulation of the law of cinema and audiovisual and, when we discuss this regulation, we are no longer exhausted from the subject of the underfinancing or financial holes of ICA, Institute of Cinema and Audiovisual. In the context of the crisis, in the worst years of the crisis, the former Government was prepared to make a law, a basis for the definition of an effective policy for Portuguese cinema and audiovisual. It was not a law to address specific financing problems, it was, and it is, a law that served, and serves, as an instrument for the development of the cultural objectives of the film and audiovisual sector, combining it with its promotion as a strategic vector of the economy, development and innovation, in order also to contribute to the stabilization and creation of stronger and more balanced companies. Much has already been achieved, but, of course, much will still be in the way of coming to be. Being a dynamic and creative sector, it is not expectable that the requirements are not a constant. There are, however, principles that fit the law of cinema and audiovisual that remain today: greater and better involvement of all who should indeed have a word to say in defining the objectives for the development of a film and audiovisual policy. The Decree-Law that we appreciate today, although stating that it aims to establish greater transparency, sin because this is not truly poured into its articulate. by not developing, in particular, models that ensure greater involvement, clarity and definition of how entities intervene, does not meet the objective of transparency that, in these, would like to ensure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u40	More important than the discussion in terms of the competition courts, which for the PSD is essential is transparency: transparency in the criteria and, above all, in the clear definition of each person's role.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u42	Thus, and having requested this parliamentary assessment, the PSD will, as it is always, be available to collaborate in the search for the best solutions in order to ensure participation, involvement and transparency. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u43	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carla Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u44	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister for Culture, Mrs. Members: Decree-Law No. 25 / 2018, today under review, approves the rules governing the Law of Cinema. This Decree-Law simplified the administrative procedures, disbursed the competitive procedures, reduced the deadlines for applications and costs, for example, opened up written contracts, when the support is less than €10,000, started to allow the argumentists to apply for individual projects, allowing more creators to integrate the film and audiovisual support programs. We have also created a new modality, supporting the distribution in national territory of cinematography of cultural interest and ICA now supports initiatives that contribute, in a broader view, to the development of the film sector. Improvements to the existing diploma are significant, and this is indicated by the Left Block. That said, not everything went the way we expected. The promulgation of the diploma has been considerably delayed and the deadlines laid down in advance by the guardianship have not been met, and we know how delays in opening tenders are detrimental to the sector. This is an issue addressed in a number of requests for assessment of the diploma, which we have assumed, but there are others that deserve to be rebaptised. The Socialist Party should not accept that the PSD asserts that there was no capacity for dialogue or strategic guidance by the Ministry of Culture. All the amendments proposed in this Decree-Law were worked with the industry agents, contrary to what happened in 2012, which I remember was the year when the cinema agents considered the 'zero year' of Portuguese cinema, for the absence of replies from the government and for consecutive delays in opening invitations to tender. What is even more strange to us is that the CDS requests the parliamentary assessment of this Decree-Law, stating that this Government, by assigning to the ICA the responsibility to make the list of jurors and hear the SECA in a non-binding process, deresponsibility to guardianship. The one who took responsibility for the custody was the ladies. Members of the PSD and the CDS, when in the previous diploma they referred to the SECA—to the SECA! — the establishment of the list of jurors, having as chairman a member of the ICA without the right to vote. [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u45	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u46	That is the total deresponsibility of the State in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what we wanted to reverse, an amendment which was required, because it was a requirement of the environment, leaving the SECA only as a non-binding advisory body in the appointment of jurors and attributing what we consider to be its responsibility: the design of a multiannual plan that fits the annual options, which the ICA executes, strengthening the presence of producers and associations of the sector. I regret that the CDS has been stuck in Article 14. the, trying to understand how he gave the reel for this change he wanted to make, and did not read the remaining articles of the Decree-Law. If not, I would have realized that contrary to what is stated in the application for assessment, the liquidation and supervision of fees exists in Articles 41. o 43. So it would have been nice if you had read the diploma to the end. With regard to the issues raised by the CFP, which states that there is an excess of referral to the seat of the regulation, I would say that this was, let us say, an option which we have taken after the years have shown us that the regulation is in fact the legal form that allows...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u47	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u48	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I'm going to go a little ahead.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u49	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u50	I shall end with an issue which we shall thus say all requests for parliamentary assessment and which concern Article 14. we realize that the changes we have made probably do not yet have the degree of clarity necessary, but we are available for these changes to be worked out by all in the field of expertise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u51	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Culture, Graça Fonseca, who I take advantage of to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has heard the speeches concerning requests for parliamentary review submitted by the various parliamentary groups and considers that there are perhaps two issues worth highlighting. On the one hand, of the issues that have been raised here today and which are transversal to requests for parliamentary assessment, there are those that relate and are within the framework of the Decree-Law and there are issues that are within the framework of the Film Law. This was a point that the Government would not fail to stress because what we are discussing is the parliamentary assessment of the Decree-Law. On the other hand — Mrs Carla Sousa has already done so a little — history has helped us always to put matters in place, and history says that SECA exists 11 years ago but only with the previous government in 2012, has come to have a binding opinion on the constitution of the jury, contrary to what seems to be being said here. In fact, it was this government that changed, precisely by Article 14. the, which is the power of SECA.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u53	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u54	The SECA is thus not to have binding power as it had in the law that comes from the previous government and this was the change that existed between 2012 and 2013 and then in 2018. It is also important to highlight the issue of financing and evolution, as was also mentioned here. If we look at the evolution figures that ICA has annually indicated on investment in the sector, we find that in 2013 it was 10 million, that in 2014 it was 15 million and that for this year and next it will be more than 20 million. This is also a very relevant fact to highlight in this discussion. Having said that, and since there is now a year of implementation of the amendments which were introduced in 2018 in view of what the previous Government has introduced, and as the honourable Member has already said, the Government is of course available to, at the parliamentary level, and in the field of expertise, to contribute to improving the way the jury system is regulated and also, if that is the decision of the Assembly of the Republic, to improve the whole model which has been discussed here for film financing. on this occasion, and since we are discussing this matter, I cannot but call on Parliament and the various parliamentary groups here to ensure that we are not limited to Article 14 in this discussion. o and the constitution of the jury. The film and audiovisual sector needs a much deeper and more strategic discussion than only the discussion about article 14. o. in this measure, the Government is obviously available to engage in this strategic discussion. over the past few months and indeed for the last few years, contrary to what the CDS also seems to say, has been carried out a long process of listening to the sector, and this is, in fact, one of the reasons to change the date on which the 2018 model was modified. over the last two months, it was also possible to meet and talk to several of the actors of this system to try to understand exactly what is the evaluation that make of the application of the 2018 model and where we can converge from now on. This is a discussion that we are available to do, without prejudice to, as I say, in addition to being very important to us, being above all very important to the sector that we do not remain by this discussion of Article 14. the, that we do not stay for the discussion of the jury, and that we seriously discuss the film strategy for the next 10, 20 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u55	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are no more entries, I call on the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group to close the debate. Anyway, the PSD and the government still have time available, but I don't know if they want to use it. [[Pause.]] As there are no indications to the Bureau to do so, I give the floor to Mrs Vania Dias da Silva to make the final statement. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u56	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, we all seem to have the hope of consensus, for all the speeches we have heard here, perhaps excluding the intervention of Mrs Carla Sousa, more renouncing...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u57	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u58	... to study some matters that were consensual to the rest of the parties and even to the government. I would say that we can, effectively within the Committee on Culture, better study the possible model so that we can all reach a common goal, of greater accountability, of greater scrutiny, of greater transparency in the cinema sector. This was a consensus which the previous Minister for Culture ignored, because he did not listen to all, as he should have done. Moreover, complaints from the entire sector, on the one hand and on the other, were made public, but the CDS is fully available for us to reach this consensus, on which Mr.Minister was still speaking, until we could do the strategic discussion of cinema, which cannot be done at this headquarters, of course, as he has just said, because we are now alone and only dealing with the regulation of the Film Law and, therefore, we will have to do it elsewhere, in a wider headquarters for this purpose. We are, of course, also available for this strategic discussion. It is in the interests of all of us that we do so and the CDS has always been willing to make these bridges and these consensuses. So, Mrs. Minister, you have all of our availability. In fact, the purposes that we intend to serve are not only to frustrate anyone but also to obtain measurable data without interference and with freedom of choice, which is absolutely imperative here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u60	We believe that all together, in this House, we can effectively reach the consensus that has not been reached before, but now there seems to be room for it. Mrs Carla Sousa, join us and we will see exactly how to do so in the Committee on Culture, perhaps even in a wider working group, we will discuss all the issues that are at stake here. Mr President, just to finish, I would like to point out that the CDS was talking about the disresponsibility of the Minister of Culture for not putting his chance in the choice of jury and not because of anything else.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u61	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u62	What we say is that the Minister has to choose the jury. That is not what Mrs Carla Sousa has understood, but that is what we understand. It is not the SECA who is responsible for choosing the jury, it is the Minister of Culture who must approve this choice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u63	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that proposals for amendments to the Bureau of the CDS-PP, the PSD, the BE, and the CFP relating to this Parliamentary assessment will be sent to the committee, as is the rule. Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs asked for the floor. What are you doing, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u64	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u65	Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u66	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, in her first speech, said that the Government did not participate in many parliamentary assessments. Without any kind of acrimony, because the debate went well, I just wanted to inform the House that 14 debates were held on parliamentary assessments of legal decrees and that the Government was present at all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, but you did not make an inquiry on the conduct of parliamentary work. We move on to the third point of our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion, in general, of Bills Nos. 872 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Preconception protection regime, assisted drug procreation, pregnancy, childbirth, birth and puerperium and 1034 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — The second amendment of Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March 2014 strengthening the rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth is adopted. You have the floor to start the debate, Mrs Catarina Marcelino, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is among the safest countries in the world to be born. In 2017, 6 women died for every 100,000 births. There are countries where these numbers are 1000 to 100 000. This has not always been the case in Portugal. Quoting the INE, the growth in the number of assisted births will have made a significant contribution to the evolution of maternal-child mortality rate. In 1970, about 62 % of births were carried out in a household, but in 1980 this proportion was already 26 %, currently in a residual value. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, giving birth is not a medical act at first, giving birth is a physiological act. However, it is not and may not, under any circumstances, be concerned with the imperative to maintain the assisted birth. however, it is necessary to guarantee the quality of this moment. in low-risk births women should be allowed to participate actively at the moment and in decisions that do not question their health and that of the baby. following Portugal's last report under the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, recommendations were made to the country to invest more women in decisions on their pregnancy and childbirth. This change goes not only through established practices, but also through the involvement of the health system as a whole, public, private and social, of health professionals in the various careers, primary health services and hospital services, with women always as an active part of the process. It is in this context a paradigm change, in a country that has overcome the protection and good results of reproductive health, that it is important to take another step. This is the objective of the Socialist Party's bill that establishes a regime of protection in preconception, in WFP (assisted drug procreation), in pregnancy, in childbirth, in birth and in puerperium. This diploma meets the WHO guidelines (World Health Organization ), with particular relevance to cases of particular vulnerability, such as in situations of death or pregnancy in adolescence. One of the most innovative aspects of this bill is the establishment of a birth plan during preparation for childbirth. This plan is worked by mothers, parents and health professionals. It is safeguarded that the plan is interrupted whenever there is a risk to the mother or the baby or if the mother decides to do so. The law also provides for the establishment of postpartum recovery plans. It provides that during the first week after birth there is direct contact of mothers, parents or reference people with the health establishment where delivery occurred to clarify doubts about the care to be taken with the newborn, breastfeeding, which should be supported, but never forced, or about the physical and emotional condition of the puerpera woman. It is also guaranteed that the woman cannot be accompanied by the person against whom criminal proceedings are instituted for the practice of rape, sexual abuse or domestic violence against her. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u69	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u70	I'm done. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a law within the framework of guarantees and citizenship rights that meets the power of choice which the UNFPA ( United Nations Population Fund ) considers essential in reproductive health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u71	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u72	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. This bill is an opportunity for the Assembly of the Republic, with the improvements and contributions that the specialized process allows, to take another step in consolidating the success of this journey, which brings us to the 21st century as a good country to have babies and to be born. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u73	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is well known that there are gaps in the clarifications provided to pregnant women with regard to ways of mitigating pain and delivery options and that there is often no freedom of choice. Several cases of negative delivery experiences are also known, precisely due to the lack of information, possibility of choice and respect for pregnant women, and there is a commonly designated dehumanization of childbirth and consequently disrespect for the fundamental rights of these people. The NAP considers that an important path has been made in improving the provision of health care and that it is now time to make a qualitative leap, that is, it is not enough to reduce the mortality of mothers and children, it is necessary to ensure respect for their rights during pregnancy and childbirth, thus ensuring a positive delivery experience for all. The whole process must be based on respect for human dignity, without any discrimination. So today we are discussing a bill to strengthen women's rights in this area, already after we have recommended to the Government in a resolution which was adopted here in 2017, among many other initiatives related to rights in parenthood. For the NAP the will of the pregnant woman must always be respected, except, of course, in unexpected clinical situations that make it impossible for her. Thus, and following the indications of WHO (World Health Organization ), we propose: that the father, the second mother or other reference person may participate in clinical care of pregnancy, if that is the will of the pregnant person; that, in addition to this person, pregnant women have the right to follow up by a third person chosen by them; that a questionnaire of satisfaction for women and health professionals be created; that preparation courses for childbirth and parenthood be implemented; and that they are effectively guaranteed and put into practice delivery plans with the preferences of the pregnant woman for the entire process. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, measures that promote respect for human rights continue to be a priority at national and international level and everything begins as we were born.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u75	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The democracy achieved with April 25 actually brought unforgettable gains in several areas for the country and two of them are here at the moment in discussion with these projects: health and human rights. We are talking about gains and indicators of maternal and child health—it has already been mentioned the brutal and very positive breakdown of both mother and child mortality—but we are also talking about the recognition and operationalization of reproductive rights and sexual rights. It is a path that prides us as a country and it is a path that we have an obligation to deepen from day to day. That is what we must do and I believe that is what we are discussing — and well! — with this agenda and with these proposals for agenda. To deepen health care, to deepen the humanization of the National Health Service, to deepen rights that give us information about participation and follow-up in childbirth, for example, it is essential to make and continue this path. Therefore, on the side of the Left Block, we follow several of the objectives that remain and that are behind the projects that are under discussion. The strengthening of planning and information, the strengthening of prenatal care, the strengthening of the right to follow-up in pregnancy, the creation of a birth plan, which is a good proposal, the strengthening of respect for the will of the pregnant woman, the strengthening of the right to follow-up during childbirth, the strengthening of contact and proximity with health care at all stages, including in puerperium, post-partum recovery plans and the recognition of the right to breastfeeding are all objectives that we recognise their validity and follow-on-the-CL. Therefore, we will support and follow up on all the projects that point to it. We leave, however, a question that we hope to discuss in the specialty, but we cannot fail to put it now: the draft law that is proposed by the Socialist Party has a revocative standard that nullifies several articles of the consolidating law that refers to the rights and duties of the users of the National Health Service. It seems to us that it would be important to leave in this consolidating law at least a reference to the rights enshrined in the Socialist Party's bill and to make the existing consolidated law communicate with a new law that is being created. It is, as I said, something we think we should discuss in the specialty, but we could not stop pointing out now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u77	You now have the floor for the PCP, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP's intervention on the rights to health and the follow-up of pregnant and puerpera women is vast. The CFP has presented several legislative initiatives, some of which have been approved, which aim not only to guarantee the effectiveness of sexual education, such as the promotion of sexual and reproductive health and the protection of maternity and paternity, of which are examples: the guarantee of follow-up by the future father to pregnant women during childbirth; the right of special leave in situations of risk; the strengthening of guarantees of the right to reproductive health; the regulation of assisted reproductive techniques; the adoption of measures to strengthen the protection of motherhood-patternity. in the areas of maternity and paternity rights, we highlight the following proposals: the creation of a specific maternity leave of prematurity with duration of the period of hospital stay of the unborn child, ensuring the payment of the respective allowance to 100 %, on the basis of the reference remuneration; the allocation of maternity and paternity allowances always based on 100 % of the reference remuneration; the extension of the compulsory period of leave of the woman from six to nine weeks; the free decision of the couple on the period of parental leave of 150 or 180 days in the case of sharing, always ensuring their payment to 100 %; the provision of the termination of maternity or paternity leave in case of illness or hospitalization of the parent or child; the provision of the possibility of enjoying the extended parental allowance also in a shared manner, according to the option of the spouse; the strengthening of protection in the event of unemployment, enabling the cumulation of unemployment benefits with the prematurity allowance or parental allowance. For the PCP, policies and measures to promote sexual and reproductive rights, maternity and paternity, the follow-up of pregnant women must invariably pass through the affirmation of important civilizational achievements that they constitute and the adoption of a diversified and cross-sectional set of measures that contemplate education, health, employment and social security and, in the specific case of health, by a National Service of Universal, General and Free Health with human, material and financial means that allow the provision of quality and timely health care. The PCP defends the strengthening of targeted health care for women covering the entire life cycle, and, in the specific case of pregnant women, from preconception to childbirth encompassing the period of puerperium and for the newborn. Regarding the PS project, we would like to reaffirm that it is not enough to make proclamations, it is necessary to create all the conditions, including the strengthening of professionals, in order for these rights to be implemented in life. with regard to the NAP initiative, at least, it is strange that, in discussing, in the specialty, a project of the same content, will now present this initiative. We are, as we have always been, available to, in the field of expertise, contribute to ensuring that the greatest protection for women is preserved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u79	Mrs. Isaura Pedro of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing two initiatives on the protection of women in pregnancy. Draft Law No 872 / XIII / 3. through which the Socialist Party intends to establish a regime of protection in preconception, in assisted drug procreation, in pregnancy, in childbirth, in birth and in puerpery, and the Bill No. 1034 / XIII / 4. a, the NAP, which aims to strengthen the rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth. These legislative initiatives address important issues, such as the rights of women in matters of maternity protection. These matters are also of particular importance in Portuguese society, at a time when the country is debating the serious problem of low birth, an issue which would deserve the Government to take bold and vigorous measures but which unfortunately do not have the left's concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u82	Having said that, the PSD cannot fail to express some doubts about the initiatives in the presence, since the purposes of these initiatives can be compromised by the concrete solutions they contain. In fact, it seems to us that, at the end of just four years, once again, Law No. 15 / 2014 of 21 March, a diploma that consolidates the legislation on the rights and duties of the health services user may compromise, contrary to the intended, the consolidating character which was at the basis of the approval of that law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u84	On the other hand, the authors of the initiatives under discussion today cannot fail to take into account the possible contradiction between the same and other projects under parliamentary review, and I refer to Law Projects Nos 555 / XIII / 2. a, the PAN, and 563 / XIII / 2. a, from The Greens. In fact, it is now proposed that several articles of Law No 15/2014 should be repealed, when those diplomas, otherwise, amend them or even add new articles to them. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issues referred to should have been considered previously by the Socialist Party and by the NAP. The presentation of legislative initiatives must be based on a principle of usefulness, opportunity and necessity and not on any political convenience of occasion. For the PSD, birth is a serious matter—it would really be crucial for our collective future—and it deserves an approach that does not compromise the objectives it says it pursues. We therefore appeal from here that the parties that have put forward proposals in this area should have this in mind in the context of the parliamentary legislative process involving the bills under discussion today and others already in Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u85	For an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills we are discussing today — PS and NAP initiatives — propose, even in different ways, to legislate in order to strengthen rights and duties as regards protection in pre-conception, in assisted drug procreation, in pregnancy, in childbirth and in puerperium. We know that Portugal has the best indices in the world in relation to maternal and child health, the result of large investments and technical-scientific support and free improvement of prenatal health care and then during birth and puerpery, also the result of improved care and social support, and this is a clear reason for our pride. It is not, of course, preventative, on the contrary, that we continue a path of improvement and greater humanization of these moments and of clinical assistance, duly accredited and technically sustained, which is provided to women at this time. For us, therefore, the creation of the birth plan, proposed in these two initiatives, seems to us to be a very positive step. We would like to say that, in fact, while the NAP only amends Law No 15 / 2014, the PS, in turn, opted to consolidate in a single degree all the rules relating to this matter, which, in the view of the CDS, is more sensible and simplified in legislative terms. That is why, in terms of legislative technique — in fact, as mentioned in the Technical Note itself — seems to us to be more sensible and better prepared the PS proposal, even if there are some aspects, and I am not going to lengthen, which we believe, in the field of expertise, clearly have to be improved and improved. The PS project raises a number of questions to us — in fact, already mentioned here by other parliamentary groups — in particular with regard to the budgeting of some of the proposals that are made because it is said that this law would enter into force 60 days after its publication. We therefore want to know whether this will actually turn from words to acts, because it is necessary that the services have budgetary coverage in order to be able to implement these measures. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that the subject is very relevant, the path of humanization and the improvement of health care without setbacks is fundamental to us. We consider that it is possible and necessary to improve legislative proposals in the field of expertise, and therefore, in our view, they deserve the best attention of this Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u87	To close the debate on this matter, Mrs Catarina Marcelino has the floor. It has 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am pleased to note that in this House there is availability and willingness on the part of all parties to support an initiative of this kind, which goes towards improving the quality of response to women when they have children, as well as their families. in this sense, the Socialist Party proposes a qualitative leap in the act of being born in Portugal, so that mothers, parents, babies and families can have good experiences at such an important time in their lives. I believe that this bill makes a positive contribution to the recommendations of WHO, UNICEF (United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund ) and UNFPA, allowing Portugal, which in the 21st century has achieved such good results, to step forward with regard to reproductive health for women. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u89	That concludes this item on our agenda. We will continue with the joint discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos. 928 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Assign a temporary residence visa to foreign citizens with a year of social security discounts and 1035 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Change the scheme of entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from national territory, establishing the allocation of the temporary visa of residence to immigrant citizens with a year of social security discounts. To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is on behalf of the primacy of the human rights of immigrants, affirmed in the Global Pact for Migration and recently approved at the Marrakesh Conference that the Left Block presents this initiative. The restrictive guidelines that have prevailed among us on the regularization of immigrants are responsible for an accumulated liability of about 30 000 citizens who remain in Portugal in an irregular situation. in the overwhelming majority of cases, it is a condition that is not your responsibility because for many months, or even years, that have triggered the respective procedures for regularization with the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ). But the bureaucracy and the guidance given by political power leave these claims unanswered and condemn these people to perpetuating the condition of irregularity and thus to the maximum exploitation and deprivation of fundamental rights. At the initiative of the Block, the Assembly of the Republic has adopted amendments to the law which establish an essential rule: the regularization of immigrants cannot be a discretionary act of the Administration, it must only be the expression of recognition of the rights of these people by applying the law. These changes have already made it possible to significantly improve the response to the challenge of regularizing immigrants, but not enough. There is a broad consensus on the need to go further in the regularization regime, removing the prevalence of discretionary foreign and border services. The Government, with the recently approved decree regulating the « law of foreigners », has established that this additional step is to refer for humanitarian considerations the regulatory solution, applying Article 123. or the law. It's a non-response. It treats as exceptional what is normal and, being an exceptional regime, what prevails is still the discretion of the SEF. Responding to the request for regularization of those living here, here he works, here he discounted for social security for at least one year, with the possibility of a positive response for humanitarian relief reasons, he trivializes the use of the humanitarian argument and is at least mistaken. First of all, it is wrong in the legislative field. It is not in a volatile regulatory decree, but rather in the stability of the law which must be enshrined in the regularization regime. Second, it's politically wrong. What has made it possible to give a better response to pending requests, although they continue to wait for months, many months, for the SEF, is not the regulatory decree of the Government, are the guidelines that have been issued by the Government to the SEF, and still well. However, the rights of immigrants cannot be dependent on the variability of government policy guidelines. It's your rights, it's your lives that are at stake. And, therefore, its recognition cannot be exceptional, it must be normal; and it cannot be political orientation, it must be defined in the law. This is the point of this Block proposal, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This is, therefore, a fair proposal that makes the speech that Portugal is a country that wants to welcome immigrants much more than a simple speech, an effective practice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u91	Mrs. Members, with the exception of Mr André Silva, who will then present the draft law of the NAP, the Bureau shall not register entries and therefore leaves an appeal to the banks for registration if they wish. Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the Left Block initiative for the scheduling of this issue. Several national and international studies have highlighted the advantages of integrating immigrants, both economically and demographicly, and the importance of labour market entry. A recent study by the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation concluded that the country lacks the integration of immigrants to mitigate the growing ageing of the population, maintain the needs of the labour market and help balance the accounts of social security, ultimately fighting for the largest number of immigrants' entry. In our country, there is a problem of high morbidity in the process of regularizing immigrants, which in many cases takes more than one year, and there are about 30 000 immigrants in an unregulated situation who have been working and contributing to social security discounts for several years. Demographic dynamics of birth and mortality have no short-term consequences. Portugal needs immigrants, we must facilitate the entry of foreigners and we have the humanitarian duty to enter Portuguese society. We therefore consider that a temporary residence visa mechanism should be set up for immigrants with a year of social security discounts, thus respecting the rights of these citizens and allowing them to act within the law proceedings while awaiting the painful outcome of the regularisation process.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u93	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is at least the third or fourth time — I do not know very well — that the Left Block moves in the so-called « law of foreigners » in this legislature, but now with the NAP to tow. This time, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block and the PAN move into the « law of foreigners» to assign the temporary visa of residence not to those who enter the country legally, as is normal and is expected in various circumstances — work, research or study — but to those who have entered Portugal illegally. For us, Mr. José Manuel Pureza, this is a serious, very serious mistake. It is not only a conceptual mistake, because temporary visas are, in our opinion and by definition, for legal entry into the country — indeed, the law already provides — and, moreover, they heed the purposes of the Left Block to give basic rights, such as health and education, while it is expected by regularization, and there are already some mechanisms in this regard; it is, above all, a gross material error, since it is irresponsible, is dangerous and even contradictory in relation to the movement that is being made by this outside Europe. Furthermore, Mr President, it is an invitation to enter our country illegally by any means in any way and without the least control, making Portugal a rotating door, but, worse than that, making Portugal an easy base for those who come with bad intentions. We therefore understand that this makes no sense strictly. And for these people it is simple: you just have a year of discounts to be able to easily access a temporary residence visa. We strongly and periodically disagree with this solution, which, in the long run, can even bring serious problems, such as networks of trafficking in persons and terrorism.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u95	Exactly! Sometimes good intentions...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u96	These intentions may even be good in paper, but then, in practice, they have perverse and harmful effects, which, obviously, is not cautious in the projects that are now presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u98	This is a question that Portugal is putting in exactly the opposite direction in relation to what has been done by Europe outside, and we know what I think it has.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u99	Good! He's just saying good things about us!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u100	No, no. Still bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u101	Mrs. Members, facilitate legal entry channels, yes, as far as possible, we defend it without any problem; there is humanism in this integration, yes, as far as possible;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u102	No, no. Still bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u103	... to make Portugal an attractive country for residents, for nationals and foreigners, yes, as much as possible; to unlock the door to illegal immigration, with the potential harmful consequences that this may have of trafficking networks of people and networks of terrorism, never. The CDS rejects this view, so it doesn't contain us for that. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u104	For an intervention by the Socialist Party, Mrs. Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my God! Terrorism! Is that what you're talking about? People's traffic! Is that what you're talking about? You're wearing scrambled doors! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u106	Oh, my God? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u107	unlike the CDS, the Socialist Party does not fear immigration and does not welcome the European way of migration and immigration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u108	Come on, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u109	I am glad that we have not followed the European path in this matter, as in others. For example, with regard to the law of nationality, in which we have not followed the terrible attachment to the criterion of blood that the CDS likes so much. What is at stake is a political issue, whether or not we want to solve the situation of people who, contrary to what happens in the CDS imagination, already exist, they are already here. There are about 30 000 people who have been discounted for more than a year for social security, for the benefit of all of us and without anything happening in the darkness. So the question is whether we want any solution for these people. The PS has already issued the exit step for this solution and has submitted a draft resolution, which, in fact, later withdrew because there was a decree that came to regulate the said Article 23. the, allowing the regularization of the situation of people who even illegally entered Portugal through the foundation of humanitarian issues. It remains to be known whether, in the face of the terrible circumstances in which people live while waiting for their regularization, which means an effective reduction in their social rights, everything should be dealt with in the light of a regime that does not cease to be exceptional, even though it has been a great principle of solution which the Socialist Party and the Government have played, in the light of a logic of humanitarian interest, or if in fact we can find a normal solution to what is happening in Portugal. We understand that the two bills under discussion must be accompanied by exactly what I just said. however, these initiatives have enormous technical problems, which, moreover, have already been pointed out by both the technical notes that accompanied them, or by some opinions, such as that of the High Commissioner for Migration. But these are issues that are dealt with in the specialty and the PS is, and will always be, alongside those who defend a country friendly of the various immigrations, not only for its beneficial value at all levels, but, above all, for a matter of decency. We will do everything we can to ensure that these two legislative initiatives, which are in fact having technical problems, are being worked out in the field in order to take another step towards regularizing immigrant citizens and citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u110	Mr Rui Cruz now speaks for an intervention on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party, as a humanist party that is, in a country with relevant history and emigration in the world, is a defender of the good reception of immigrants and respect for their dignity and fundamental rights. The Social Democratic Party recognizes reasons of national interest in the demographic challenge, in the promotion of birth, in the sustainability of social security, in the crisis of economic growth, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u112	But...!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u113	... likewise are reasons of national interest internal security, public order, combating violent crime and international cooperation, which justify sound weighting and rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u114	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u115	The regime in force seems appropriate to us, because it provides for several situations where the Administration and the guardianship may expedite the residence permit to foreign citizens, exempting visas from residence...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u116	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u117	... and provide, when extraordinary situations arise, that this can be granted by the Government of the area of internal administration. It is indecent, Mrs. Isabel Moreira, Mr. Secretary of State does not do so, i.e. to give temporary residence authorization, for reasons of national interest, to those who do not meet the requirements laid down in the general scheme, in particular those who have not had legal entry into the national territory,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u118	Hello! You're out of your mind!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u119	... seems to us to be at least strange to admit a contribution relationship with someone who, from the outset, is illegally found in national territory. If it is thought that the procedure for regularization is an exasperating grubbing-up, that there are too many citizens in an illegal situation, with their basic rights diminished, then it is for the government to assume responsibilities. It is to this same government, which says that it is committed to solving demographic problems and that it is committed to immigration — which, as you can see, does not, in a timely manner, allow for employment from foreign countries, not even from Portuguese official language, creating among many more problems for businesses — that it is doing so. These initiatives, similar in the end and in the manner, differ only in the duration of the visa and — our perplexity — only to foreign citizens who have entered Portugal illegally and consciously promote illegal immigration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u120	Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u121	They permeate and promote, without thinking, then, how you can seal the illegal entry of good people, criminals and fugitives. That is why, as they are, these initiatives are unacceptable! For everything, and especially for this, they are inadequate and inappropriate. [[PSD Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u122	Mr António Filipe now speaks on behalf of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to immigration, it is important to know which side we are on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u124	Oh, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u125	Immigration is not a problem; illegal immigration is a serious problem! [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]] The question that matters is whether we want immigrants who are in Portugal with a legal situation, making their discounts, to have, from the point of view of regularity, a stable situation and a job benefit like any other worker or, on the contrary, whether we want to keep immigrants in an illegal situation, subject to tremendous fragility and overexploitation. So the question we have to decide is whether we want immigrant citizens to be treated with dignity, whether they are considered whole-body citizens or whether we want to keep citizens, because of illegality, as second-class citizens in Portugal. That is also what is being discussed here. We believe that the solution which has been adopted in Portuguese law for many years is not compatible with this problem. We have immigration legislation influenced by bad winds that have long been blowing up the European Union in order to adopt a policy of immigration of closed doors, absolutely unrealistic and contrary to reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u126	That's why!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u127	The phenomenon of migration is not regulated by laws of more or less flexible foreigners, it is regulated by other sociological phenomena that we must respect and to which legislation must, of course, adapt. That is why we have always said that the problem is not solved by extended rules in the immigration law. The problem is solved by the adoption of rules that are just, realistic, capable of enabling immigrants to be integrated into Portuguese society and, in particular, into the labour market where they are inserted, treating immigrants not as criminals, because they are not, but as citizens who seek a better life in Portugal, a life they have a right to. Therefore, the CFP is certainly with all the initiatives that are being put forward and that are going to reduce in Portugal this real scourge which is the illegality to which many immigrants remain subject. We know that, in January, there will be more initiatives scheduled for this purpose, for which the CFP also contributed with the presentation of a project on the regularization of undocumented persons, but of course we will support these initiatives that are currently under discussion, while contributions that we will have to appreciate in the specialty, in order to allow immigrant citizens to be treated, in Portugal, with the dignity they deserve. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u128	The Left Block again has the floor to close this debate. Mr. José Manuel Pureza, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage of the end of the debate, I would like to highlight two aspects which seem very important to me. First of all, let us talk about « bad intentions». It says the CDS that this project opens the door to who comes to Portugal with « bad intentions».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u130	The mafias! Open the door to the mobs!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u131	For very well, « bad intentions» is to maintain, in the grip of olive oil in the Alentejo, over months, undocumented people and not give them a solution!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u133	That is what is called 'bad intentions'!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u134	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u135	« Más intensions», Mr and Mrs. Members of the CDS, it is to maintain, in civil construction, over months and years, undocumented people and not give them a solution! That is that they are 'bad intentions'! What the project of the Left Block here proposes is precisely to combat these « bad intentions», regulating the situation of these people who are discounted for social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u136	It's a way to regularize the mafia!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u137	I should like to add more: "bad intentions" is to accept that these people will be discounted for one year for social security and then not giving them an answer! This is true of people who have "wrong intentions" and we fight that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u138	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u139	Now, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, when it comes to branding the hypothesis of this being an open door for terrorists, I would like to ask you how many terrorists are already caught in the olive harvest in the Alentejo or in the Algarve stoves. You have to tell me how many have been caught! [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS and PCP Members.]] But, Mrs. Deputy and Mrs. Members, the PSD also makes an interesting speech, which is that of "humanism, but...". They say: « Indeed, this must be treated with great humanism,...» — they speak in humanism, humanism, humanism — «... but...» And then comes the whole set of impediments. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to remind you that they always have a 'but' to oppose humanism when it comes to immigrants who are working in Portugal, but they do not have a single 'but' when it comes to assigning gold visas to those who arrive with money to buy real estate. [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]] For that reason, you have no « but»!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u140	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u141	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the debate has clarified positions and that is very important. on our part, we are fully available to ensure that, in our specialty, what we present here is achieved, in the name of a question always: the primacy of respect for these people and their human rights. [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u142	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us continue and start the debate on the fifth item on our agenda, which consists in the joint discussion, in general, of Bills Nos 942 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Establish the Military Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals as the National Laboratory for Medicine and 1037 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Strengthening the capacity to produce drugs by the current Military Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals, then the National Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals. To present the PCP bill, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP only public intervention safeguards the public interest, production and national sovereignty. Therefore, the adoption of a drug policy that responds to the needs of the National Health Service ( SNS ) and users is required, a policy that, among other aspects, goes through the creation of the national drug laboratory, an initiative that we are discussing today. With this initiative, the CFP aims to contribute to the development of research and production of medicines and other health products, affirming our sovereignty in this area; to encourage research and scientific knowledge and regulate the sector, particularly at price level, with the introduction of drugs at more affordable costs; to continue support for the Armed Forces in the field of technical-military cooperation, the development of sanitary actions, clinical analyses and, in the area of care, pharmaceutical support to the military family and the disabled of the Armed Forces. The creation of the national laboratory of the medicinal product is also an instrument for the dynamisation of the national production apparatus. The initiative that we now present part of the experience and knowledge in the Military Laboratory that since the 1980s has produced medicines for the National Health Service, especially medicines that have ceased to have interest in the pharmaceutical industry, but that continue to have a high effectiveness in the treatment of certain diseases, also producing pediatric oral substances and orphan drugs. We also highlight the production and distribution of methadone for the narcotic replacement program. This bill does not extinguish the Military Laboratory, as the PSD/CDS Government intended in XII Legislation, but, on the contrary, it maintains and enhances its rich experience, increasing the resources that are affecting it and creating material and institutional conditions so that it can extend its activity. The proposal of the CFP is based on the establishment of an institute with dual protection — national defence and health — which not only responds to the needs of the Armed Forces, but which, in connection with health and medicine policies, allows for greater scope. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in 2017, the National Health Service was charged with more than EUR 1200 million—more than 2% of what was spent on medicines in 2016. However, drug costs also increased for users. They spent around EUR 700 million — more 0, 4 % than in the previous year. Although measures have been taken, particularly in the increase in the share of generics, a measure for which the CFP has contributed much, and although participations have been increased, numerous difficulties remain in access to the medicinal product. The commitment to the creation of the national laboratory of the medicinal product is thus incorporated into a political option that values national production in the drug sector, guarantees the strategic production of essential medicines, providing the needs not covered by the pharmaceutical industry, allows for increased economic development and the creation of wealth and increases the sustainability of the SNS and the accessibility of users. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u144	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are recurring reports of drug withdrawal by pharmacists, not because these medicines have ceased to be effective, not because these medicines have ceased to be safe, but because these medicines have stopped being profitable for pharmacists. In May 2018, Roche removed from the market a drug used in the treatment of immunodepressed children such as children with cancer or HIV(humanimmunodeficiency virus), not because it ceased to be an effective medicine or because it ceased to be safe, but because it ceased to be profitable. This is not a single case. In February 2017 — to speak only of two recent and public cases — a drug considered was inaccessible, and I quote « necessary for about 80 % of cancer patients ». Once again, not because I stopped being effective, but because I stopped being profitable for the pharmaceuticals. Now, for the Left Block, the question is simple: the state cannot be held hostage by the appetites of pharmaceuticals. It does not need to be hostage to these appetites, because it even has its own capacity for the production of medicines. This own capacity for production is now called the Military Laboratory. With this bill of the Left Block, what we propose is that you take advantage of and strengthen the production capacity of this Laboratory, which is attributed to the, so far, Military Laboratory, a dual protection—defence and health—that the defence functions are maintained and that its status in the health area is clarified. With the bill that the Left Block presents today, the National Laboratory is able to produce medicines to market for its marketing, it is able to produce orphan drugs, abandoned or generic, become able to provide hospitals. This status needs to be clarified. in a recent visit that the Left Block did to the current Military Laboratory, this was what we were asked to do: « clarify the status of the Laboratory as regards the health area in order to produce more because we can produce but we need this legislative amendment to carry out this production ». That's what the Left Block is doing with this bill. It is to ensure that national and public production capacity can be effectively exploited. With this bill of the Left Block, we defend the public interest, we defend the State, which ceases to be a hostage to the interests of pharmaceuticals, we defend patients who need medicines, we defend access to therapies and medicines that are effective, safe and cannot be removed from the market just because they have ceased to be profitable for the pharmaceutical industry. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u146	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to stress that we understand the position of the CFP and also of the Left Block on this matter. In fact, we stressed the coherence with which the PCP does so, even because it presented a virtually identical project about one or two years ago, exactly on the question of medicines. however, we cannot follow neither the PCP nor the Left Block in the creation of what some refer to as "National Laboratory of Medicinal Products" and others as "National Laboratory of Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals". This is because, firstly, we make an extremely positive assessment of how it has been working, for many years to this part, particularly in recent years, the Military Laboratory of Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals. It is a laboratory run by a very high-quality pharmaceutical colonel, Colonel Dr.a Margarida Figueiredo, who has a team of particularly competent people regarding issues that have to do with support for the Armed Forces, first, with special emphasis on the National Highlighted Forces, but also with regard to research and production of pharmaceutical products that do not exist on the market or where the market cannot respond to the needs of the National Health Service. Mrs Carla Cruz spoke of the production of methadone. In fact, the methadone was introduced in a pioneering way — they forgive me for underlining it, but from the historical point of view, it is entirely true — by a left-wing coalition that led the City Hall of Lisbon, in which I was modestly integrated, and that had a pioneering role in combating the most serious drug addiction phenomena, in particular with regard to the Ventoso Casal, in Lisbon, which was the symbol of this drug addiction. That was when the methadone began to be used for the first time in Portugal. It is the Military Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals that produces it in a way, even pioneering at European level, as it actually produces a series of other products that have to do with, for example, influenza A. I don't know how to tell you the complete list... I think we have a tendency on our land, unfortunately, sometimes— and that affects all political forces, it is not strictly critical to anyone—that is to reform or change what works well. Now, the Military Laboratory of Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals works well! Perhaps there will have to be a strengthening of the number of pharmacists who work there, perhaps there will have to be a strengthening of the role of research in the functioning of this Laboratory which is absolutely historical and has corresponded to the needs of the country. Curiously, he was created in 1918, he was now 100 years old, following our intervention in the First World War, and he became known as at that time as the Central Army Pharmacy, still being managed by the Army, but it is of all the Armed Forces –, the Military Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals Laboratory, since the end of World War II. And it has worked well, including we have proof of how it worked during the time the country was involved, whatever our personal position on this matter, on three fronts of Colonial War. And the gentlemen. Members know which is mine, in particular, about this war which, unfortunately, has involved us for 14 years. But the answer was always particularly capable and there is a clear availability to serve the National Health Service. This government — and I will finish — is a symbol of what the Socialist Party has been doing in this regard. We're not drug addicts. The generals were introduced into Portugal by a Government of the Socialist Party and the line we have been to this is precisely that. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your pharmaceutical tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u148	Mr President, you can thank the Bureau. There was, of course, a good Christmas will. You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Vales.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss two legislative initiatives, one of the Portuguese Communist Party and another of the Left Block, which in practice intend to increase the production capacity of medicines by the current Military Laboratory. First of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, I would like to address a warm greeting to the Military Laboratory, created just 100 years ago in 1918, at the end of World War I, with the mission to provide medicines to the National Army and Navy. throughout its existence, the Military Laboratory has made a remarkable contribution to the country, counting many thousands of soldiers who helped save in the war of the Ultramar. Today, the Military Laboratory continues to guarantee health logistics and pharmaceutical supply to the Portuguese Armed Forces and it is good to bear in mind that this is its fundamental mission. On the other hand, we cannot fail to recognize that, especially in recent decades, the Laboratory has been working with the health sector, producing medicines that the pharmaceutical industry, as already mentioned, has abandoned and that otherwise would not reach the hospitals of the National Health Service and the patients. The PSD therefore recognises the principle that this expansion of drug production capacity by the Military Laboratory is in itself virtuous and beneficial to the population and the country. however, if we analyze these bills, we find that they both interfere in matters that respect the government sphere in terms that do not seem right to us. Thus, for example, the Military Laboratory has a dual guardianship of the Ministry of Health and Defence, it is a decision that we believe is the responsibility of the Government rather than the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u151	The same can be said of the vast list of competences for the Military Laboratory, to which the PCP and the Block did not resist, which must be considered, is true, but within the government and not parliament. For these reasons, the PSD Parliamentary Group will not be able to follow the initiatives, particularly that of the CFP, which is sick of blind sectarianism and of radical and extremist party itself. Moreover, the PSD is very proud of the decline in the price of medicines in the last period of social-democrat governance. [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] Listen, Mrs. Deputy. It's important to listen! The PSD is proud of the drop in the price of medicines that has saved more than 300 million euros for Portuguese people and nearly 500 million euros for the state! [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] That's where there's a lot of the cuts that accuse us of having done at the SNS. It's not in users' access, but in excessive incomes. That's the truth, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. In conclusion, I mean that the PSD believes that the Government should strengthen its investment in the Military Laboratory and should also adapt the legal regime of this important institution to the reality and the challenges and requirements of the present institution. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, that is the great tribute that the Military Laboratory deserves in its 100. the Anniversary. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u152	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin our intervention precisely by enhancing the role of the Military Laboratory in the service of the people and to say that, obviously, we are the first ones, and we know that not the only ones, to recognize the relevance of the service that it has provided to the country. The initiatives we are discussing today about the role of the Military Laboratory are initiatives to which the CDS recognizes kindness and relevance. Therefore, we are the first to follow the desire of the PCP and the Left Block that the Military Laboratory may have more competence in the production of more medicines and medical devices, for the sake of public health. For us, it is clear that in this process we have to respect enormous technical rigour and we know that, on the part of the Military Laboratory, there is a desire for this to happen and also the desire for a full use of the installed capacity so that the State will not have unnecessary expenses for not taking advantage of that same installed capacity. Well, concerned about this issue of the Military Laboratory and its role, its maximization, what exactly did we do about a year ago? We sent two written questions to the Ministry of Health, asking about the strengthening of the production of drugs by the Military Laboratory and the role of it in the industrial treatment of plasma. We recall that last February the then Minister of Health of this same Government, because the government did not change, even if they wanted us to believe otherwise, publicly stated the intention of the Government to put the Military Laboratory to produce drugs beyond those that already produce and to be able to carry out the industrial treatment of plasma. in this sense, I would also like to remind Mr. Members who have been set up an interministerial working group for the area of blood and medicine to make a deep reflection on this matter. Now, what was not our surprise when what we received from the response was, and I am going to quote briefly, that in order for the Military Laboratory to change this production it would be "need to modernise and increase its conditions in production-related aspects, estimating the need to make investments in the order of 16, 75 million euros for a minimum period of 24 months so that, in the end, the conditions for pursuing the goal" which I repeat, the CDS subscribes. The question I wanted to put to the Left Block and the CFP, reiterating that obviously we are following your concern and your intention, was whether they were aware of this lack of conditions, claimed by the Government, which effectively requires greater investment. We wanted to know if you, as bankers who support the government, have negotiated, have talked to the government so that this is not really a stage and there is viability for the government that you support to continue this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u154	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u155	I shall conclude, Madam President. We can assume that it is the government that is part of what we are discussing today, what I am asking is whether or not they will negotiate with your Government conditions for the Military Laboratory to begin to implement what you are proposing today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u156	In order to close this debate, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin with the interventions of the CDS and PSD. We understand the angle that was your intervention, because they cannot effectively spread the responsibility they had, including a decree they published, to extinguish the Military Laboratory. [[PSD protests.]] But today they come here to praise the Military Laboratory! In fact, the Military Laboratory has a highly qualified technical team, a set of highly motivated professionals to be able to do more than they already do, and that is their great goal. But what do you have on the side of the PSD and the CDS? They say the PCP proposal is virtuous but demagogic. It's not, sirs. Members, because for many years the CFP has argued that national sovereignty is also part of having control in this area. What we defend is that the production of medicines, the policy of medicines are also within the reach of the State, is under public management. And it is precisely for this reason, Mr João Soares, that the CFP today presented this initiative, precisely to take advantage of this installed capacity, that ability which the military lab leaders themselves and professionals have transmitted to the CFP, having shown a huge welcome to our proposal, because that is what they want. They want to contribute decisively so that Portugal has a self-sustainable drug policy in some areas, they want to contribute clearly to the accessibility of users to medicines, they want to contribute so that the National Health Service can have medicines, yes, in which the pharmaceutical industry has long ceased to have interest not producing them, but that they are effective. That is why the CFP once again brings this legislative initiative, because it is a question of national sovereignty, of promoting national production and of valuing the Military Laboratory, which clearly has to have, in our perspective, a double protection, because it must maintain its activity in relation to defence and military, but also in relation to health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u158	Mrs. Members, let us continue with the sixth and last item of our agenda today, which consists in the joint discussion, in general, of Bills Nos 958 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Visa the reinforcement of seismic resistance of buildings, 778 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Revokes the exceptional and temporary regime for the rehabilitation of buildings or fractions established by Decree-Law No 53 / 2014 of 8 April 2014 on seismic and other risks and 1032 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Seismic building reinforcement, including in rehabilitation works. To present the Greens initiative, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today bring the discussion of a bill that aims to strengthen seismic resistance of buildings. Objectively, the great concern of The Greens in this area, which in fact originated from the presentation of this legislative initiative, lies in the fact that Decree-Law No 53 / 2014 of 8 April, amended in 2015, established a temporary exemption regime applicable to the rehabilitation of buildings, which, on the pretext of simplifying the procedures for the rehabilitation of the building, has just weakened safety rules. in this diploma, however, it is determined that « interventions in existing buildings cannot reduce the safety and health conditions of building and the structural and seismic safety of the building ». It happens — and here we see the problem — that if the building no longer contains any seismic security, the law itself determines that it is in those conditions that it may remain, given that there is nothing else to decrease to that level. What this law should determine was precisely the opposite: the obligation to strengthen seismic resistance conditions in the processes of rehabilitation of buildings, because, in fact, only in this way will it be possible to ensure that cities are progressively more secure in relation to a violent earthquake. We know that there is a resolution from the Assembly of the Republic which sets out a set of recommendations to the Government to adopt measures to reduce seismic risks, but we also know that these recommendations have not been met so far, nor do we know any diligence on the part of the Government to comply with them. The Greens therefore assume, through this draft law, the objective of making a real contribution to the need for adaptation of the law to a necessary urgency, in a society where a culture of prevention and responsibility for risk mitigation must prevail. This is all the more imperative as it is known that there is a very large set of buildings that are quite old and therefore have not been built with concern for seismic resistance. And even with regard to more recent buildings, there are often no guarantees of their seismic resistance, since to ensure this certainty it would be necessary to systematically monitor both projects and works, which is indeed not a reality, as we all know. This vulnerable reality, which increases a strong density and population concentration and buildings, gives rise to a rather serious risk and with repercussions that cannot leave the public authorities indifferent and that should call all for effective proactiveness, a serious commitment of preventive scope, of minimizing the consequences of an unpredictable geological phenomenon and with a very destructive potential with an earthquake. Having said this, it remains to be added that The Greens do their part with the presentation of this project, now waiting for the rest of the benches to do their part as well, accompanying The Greens in this proposal which aims to strengthen the seismic resistance of the buildings. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u160	To present the NAP initiative, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2014, an exceptional scheme was approved which exempts urban rehabilitation operations from compliance with certain rules laid down in the General Urban Building Regulation and the fulfilment of requirements in the legal frameworks relating to accessibility, acoustics, energy efficiency, thermal quality, gas installations, telecommunications infrastructures and structural safeguard in buildings. Thus, the works of reconstruction, expansion and even new construction can be exempted from the fulfilment of various technical standards resulting from the evolution of knowledge and society. Portuguese experts have warned of the fact that inadequate rehabilitation increases the risk of an earthquake, given the weakening of the structure of buildings. The NAP follows the opinion of the Ombudsman that points to worrying gaps in the current legal regime of urban rehabilitation, by allowing the implementation of rehabilitation operations without strengthening the seismic resistance conditions of buildings and previous assessments, and many of the buildings for rehabilitation, which are currently heavily sought in the real estate market, have structural weaknesses. It is important to encourage urban rehabilitation, but without ever lowering living standards, well-being and safety, so we believe that this exceptional regime should be repealed since it represents a major civilization delay, with serious damage to the comfort and security of housing and ultimately negatively influencing the quality of urban areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u162	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The exceptional urban rehabilitation regime, defined by Decree-Law No 53/2014, establishes an exceptional and temporary regime to apply to the rehabilitation of buildings or fractions whose construction has been completed for at least 30 years or which are located in areas of urban rehabilitation, where they are affected or are intended to be affected, wholly or predominantly, to housing use. This, from our point of view, has several problems in its definition and, among them, are the exceptions in meeting seismic safety and accessibility criteria, among others. The project we are presenting this afternoon is intended to propose changes to this transitional regime. Notwithstanding the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 280 / 2018, which proposes precisely to the Government which revises this exceptional regime of urban rehabilitation with a view to its repeal and adoption of seismic security measures, we still have no proposal to guarantee the safety of the building. Meanwhile, urban rehabilitation continues to take place, and since 2014 at an exhausting speed, without the necessary security guarantees, and that is indeed a problem. in this sense, we propose that this issue should be protected from the proper revocation of RERU (Exceptional Regime for Urban Rehabilitation) as proposed by this Assembly of the Republic in April this year. We also propose amendments to the General Regulation on Urban Buildings with regard to seismic safety, proposing that it become mandatory and strengthened in rehabilitation projects. Protection against seismic occurrences is essential in ensuring security in the face of natural and unpredictable events and we cannot maintain the population and territory exposed to this risk without the proper preparation of the building. This bill proposes precisely that the Government lay down technical standards and monitoring and certification mechanisms to enable seismic strengthening of housing and construction in rehabilitation processes. The implementation of these security measures is urgent for us and we are willing to work on them in the process of specialization to ensure these advances still this year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u164	For an intervention, you have the floor by the PS, Mr Luís Vilhena.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Not long ago, about six months ago, the Assembly of the Republic adopted a draft resolution recommending to the Government the introduction in the legal order of the obligation to confirm the level of seismic resilience in buildings over 30 years old which are the subject of rehabilitation, modification or expansion. Today we are discussing the same issue, which concerns us and which has only been possible because of the transitional urban rehabilitation regime and which may still last for another three years. This is a transitional regime that arose in 2014 only because the State did not caution the amendments to the General Regulation on Urban Buildings that considered interventions in buildings built on the basis of regulations and rules that today are required to buildings that are built of roots. In the absence of these amendments, which are necessary to introduce, this transitional regime was created, which enabled rehabilitation interventions in the building within the legality. Nevertheless, this regime had positive aspects. It facilitated, in a visible way, the rehabilitation within the legality of very edified. But this transitional regime has also served as a basis for many interventions in older buildings that may endanger the structural security and seismic resilience of buildings. We therefore hope that the Rehabilitation Project as a Rule, which the Government has been working with various entities, such as the LNEC (National Laboratory of Civil Engineering ) or the IHRU ( Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation) will be ready as soon as possible. We are therefore waiting for a new regulatory and regulatory document to ensure this type of interventions in old buildings. As far as the projects under discussion are concerned, while the NAP has radically ceased the transitional regime, those of the Left Block and the Greens Ecological Party propose amendments to a specific regulation on seismic resilience of buildings. If in the first case it does not seem reasonable to us to suddenly end up with a transitional regime without solutions for intervention in old buildings for their rehabilitation, in the case of others we believe it makes no sense now to introduce regulatory changes and regulations which will be briefly considered in the programme I referred to, the Rehabilitation Project as a Rule. However, the idea is reinforced after this discussion, which is urgent, that this programme, inserted into the new generation of housing policies, enters into force as soon as possible and anticipates the end of the transitional period, which may still last for another three years. in this sense, we will continue to make the necessary pressures for this to happen as soon as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u166	For an intervention by the Social Democratic Party, Mr.António Topa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : Decree-Law No 53 / 2014 of 8 April 2014, designated by RERU, to be in force for a period of seven years, established an exceptional and temporary regime applicable to the rehabilitation of buildings or fractions completed at least 30 years or located in areas of urban rehabilitation where they are intended to be affected, wholly or predominantly, for housing use and provided that the urban operation did not result in or worsen the existing ones or contributed to the improvement of the safety and health conditions of the building or fraction. Thus, rehabilitation operations were exempted from some rules of the Urbanisation and Building Legal Regime related to energy efficiency, telecommunications infrastructures, acoustic requirements, accessibility regimes, gas network installations, compartment size and feet rights, etc. We would like here to stress the importance that urban rehabilitation has had in the revitalization of our cities and, in particular, of its historic centres, and to reaffirm the need to continue this process as much as it is still lacking to do for the country outside. The RERU has established an exceptional and temporary regime that has enabled urban rehabilitation, allowing a deburocratization of the processes, given that the general regime often has technical requirements impossible to comply with and that would be an impediment to rehabilitation of old buildings and poor conservation built for many years. It appears that, before the existence of this legal regime and its temporary exception, there was virtually no urban rehabilitation. The CFP and the NAP presented the draft laws here under discussion with a view to the total revocation of the REU — which we cannot follow — while the Left Block only proposes the amendment of Article 9. the, stating that interventions in existing buildings are not excluded from the rules and legislation relating to the protection of seismic reinforcement. The Left Block is drawn to the fact that, with regard to structural security, the REU provides in Article 9. the, that interventions in existing buildings cannot diminish the safety and health conditions of the building and its structural and seismic safety. The RERU does not exempt any of the currently existing rules on seismic risk prevention in order only to allow the exemption of certain non-security technical requirements whose application to old buildings would be disproportionate. On the other hand, under the Urbanisation and Building Legal Regime, only the works of modification of the interior of buildings or their fractions which do not involve changes in the structure of stability are free of prior control. In other words, any urban operation which changes its structure will have to be accompanied by the corresponding structural stability project in the sense and under the conditions that existed before the entry into force of this exceptional regime. The RERU was the result of the work of a drafting committee, which incorporated representatives of the relevant entities on the subject, including the InCI (Instituto da Constructação e Domobiliario), the LNEC, the IHRU and the SRU (Sociedad de Rehabilitation Urbana) of Western Lisboa and Porto Vivo, concluding that, with the RERU, seismic security of buildings was not diminished. on the contrary, the circumstances of a building are subject to rehabilitation under this scheme necessarily implies the strengthening of its safety and health conditions, given the general regulation of which it is subject. It is the understanding of the PSD Parliamentary Group that any change or introduction of bureaucratic procedures to the RUR requires a great deal of weight and caution, and the subject should be duly studied, with entities and personalities of recognized competence in this area in any discussion on the subject. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u168	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate here today by The Greens is a concern of the CFP for many years. As the 2015 PCP electoral programme says, in the field of civil construction it is necessary to restore strong public and private investment, with a deep strategic reorientation that favours, inter alia, urban rehabilitation, with attention to social, cultural and architectural pre-existences, the increase in seismic resistance and the increase in energy efficiency. We had already submitted, and a resolution was adopted by the Assembly of the Republic in 2010 for the adoption of measures to reduce seismic risks. It remains to be known what has been done since then to comply with that resolution by successive governments. Portugal is a country that cannot ignore the high seismic risk of its territory, particularly in the regions of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, Algarve and Azores. The question is not whether there will be an earthquake, but yes, when there will be.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u171	It is impossible to predict, but it is possible to minimize impacts. at a time when the growth of tourism has led to many rehabilitation works in the historical areas of the city of Lisbon, for example, we are losing an opportunity to strengthen seismic resistance. With the low-cost rehabilitation decree, the PSD and CDS government is also responsible for disloding this critical issue for the security of the country. They say they have dynamized the lease market—or rather, they have dynamized the clearances—but they have not dynamized, on the contrary they have de-responsibled the owners of an effective rehabilitation that takes into account the concerns of seismic risk. thus, those who have benefited are, above all, the real estate funds that have entered here, that do business of millions and want there to know about seismic security. This is the legacy of the PSD/CDS government in terms of strengthening seismic security: a missed opportunity. The current government has already presented the so-called New Habitat Policy Generation, but on seismic resistance nothing new. And balbudia continues: rehabilitation is done that are no more than cosmetic operations; those who do a serious rehabilitation are damaged, because adjacent buildings do not do so; the State is irresponsible in the public housing park; the authorities—and we are not only talking about smaller authorities—have no means to make a thorough analysis of the projects and inspection that ensure that rehabilitation is done with due seismic concerns. Our opposition to the low-cost rehabilitation law does not lie with any disregard for those responsible for the work, but what is put is the need not only to be in their hands to assess matters of this importance. Double verification in this case is a measure of caution and rigour. We therefore follow up with the proposals under discussion which aim at the repeal of this decree, as well as those which seek to improve other decrees relating to this matter, and we will make our contribution to the speciality. Much more needs to be done, the country needs to have a real rehabilitation strategy for the building that takes into account the high seismic risk in some parts of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u172	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is never too much to remember that the 2011 Censuses showed that there were about two million fires in need of recovery, which represented about 34 % of the national housing park. In view of this reality, the former Government and the CDS have made the promotion of urban rehabilitation one of the strategic objectives and a national design. in this context, a drafting committee was set up, attended by multiple entities, with the task of drawing up a diploma that established the minimum technical requirements for the rehabilitation of old buildings, aiming, in addition to other measures, to dispense the works of urban rehabilitation of buildings with more than 30 years and located in ARU (Areas of Urban Rehabilitation) of subject to certain technical standards by them are oriented towards the new construction and not for the rehabilitation of buildings. Such works were the origin of Decree-Law No. 53 / 2014 of 8 April, which approved the Exceptional Regime for Urban Rehabilitation. However, despite the simplification of certain procedures and the exemption from compliance with certain standards, the requirements of safety and health requirements of the buildings concerned and their structural and seismic safety have been expressly stressed in this scheme. So, Mr. PCP's Member, it's not like you were saying. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u174	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS accompanies concerns regarding the safety of construction, new and rehabilitation, in particular with regard to seismic resistance of buildings. however, we cannot lose sight of the great advances that have occurred in the country, in recent years, regarding the recovery of buildings and the regeneration of our cities and, still, in the dynamization and revitalization of the economic activities associated with the construction sector. We have heard that the new construction is gaining ground again on rehabilitation essentially on economic issues. The increasing concentration of population in large urban centers and the new ways of looking and thinking about the organization of the territory should lead to a deep reflection of political power, but free from preconceived dogmas and ideas. We have no doubt about the importance of urban rehabilitation as a factor in the development of cities, the economy and the quality of life of people, and the work must continue and measures should be taken that promote and ensure that design. The CDS has already presented a number of initiatives in this House. We want and will support such measures, but we understand that the revocation of the RERU is not a way to be considered. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u175	Thank you, Mr President, for your strict compliance with time. To close this debate, and as the author of the first initiative, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u176	Mr President, at the end of this debate it is important to say that the approval of the Greens project, in our perspective, is indeed an imperative, even more so that an earthquake with the same magnitude may have completely different consequences if it occurs at a place where the building has resistance to the avalanche or where this seismic resistance of the building does not exist. in the latter case, the destructive effect tends to be much more catastrophic, and there may be large-scale breakdowns. In Portugal, there have already been quite catastrophic earthquakes such as that which occurred in 1755, and the only guarantee that specialists give is that, not knowing when, Portugal will be a stage of a new wave of strong dimension, since regions affected by intense earthquakes tend to see the phenomenon repeated with a variable regularity. in fact, the occurrence of an earthquake cannot be predicted in advance that allows the evacuation of buildings, but it is of the technical and public knowledge that Portugal is a country where seismic risk is considerable, having regions where the risk is more pronounced — for example, we are talking about the Algarve, the Great Lisbon, or even the Azores. However, these facts must generate in the public authorities a responsibility that enables them to act in advance to, in the case of an earthquake of great intensity in the country, the consequences will be minimized. in this sense, it is essential to ensure that the infrastructures and the built in general have seismic resistance. This preventive aspect and guarantee of the best conditions, to preserve human lives in the event of disasters, is the central objective of this Green Bill. Pity is that PSD, CDS and PS do not understand it and prepare to vote against. As far as the debate is concerned, I would like to say to Mr Luís Vilhena: I said recently that there had been a motion for a resolution adopted in the House, but that the Government has not done anything so far. If the Socialist Party believes that these measures should be taken as soon as possible, this would force the Socialist Party to vote in favour of the Greens proposal. Mr António Topa said that the PSD cannot follow these initiatives, but he does not say why, at least as far as the Greens project is concerned. Mr Álvaro Castello-White said that the CDS accompanies the concerns, but that the advances of economic activities cannot be ignored and therefore the CDS will also vote against. Let's hope there's no earthquake...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u177	I hope! I hope!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u178	We will expect that there will be no earthquake and that, if there is any chance, the CDS will not come to say that it is the party of the victims of the earthquake. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u179	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is thus concluded. Before we finish our session, I should like to announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, which will take place at 10 a.m. of the first item on the agenda is the general joint assessment of the Proposal for a Law No 154 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Change the legal regime for arms and their munitions, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 853, and Bills Nos 837 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Opens an extraordinary period of voluntary delivery of unexpressed or registered firearms, 859 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Establishs the realization of a campaign of awareness and a new voluntary delivery period of firearms, with a view to disarming society, 899 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Creates a awareness campaign for the importance of voluntary delivery of firearms and ammunition, giving a new deadline for voluntary delivery without criminal proceedings, and 931 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Implements a new voluntary delivery period of illegal firearms and ammunition without the introduction of criminal proceedings accompanied by an information campaign for disclosure. of the second item on the agenda is the general assessment of the Proposal for a Law No 166 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates the allocation of a credit privilege to the generality of bank deposits in the event of insolvency and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2399 on the position of certain debt instruments in the insolvency hierarchy. of the third point, there is, without time allocated for discussion, the Proposal for a Law No 124 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of legal decrees published between 1975 and 1980. on the fourth item on the agenda, Law Proposal No 161 / XIII / 4 will be discussed. a ( GOV ) — Maintains and generalizes the application of the simplified cadastral information system. of the fifth point is the joint assessment of Petition No 237 / XIII / 2. a ( Ricardo Silva Vicente et al.) — They request the cancellation of oil exploration and production contracts in the Peniche Basin and the Lusitânica Basin, of Resolution Projects Nos. 1876 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — by the immediate suspension of the processes for the granting, exploitation and extraction of oil and gas in the central region and 1878 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cancellation of contracts for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons — Battle and Pombal and draft Law No 1036 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Ensures the end of concessions for the exploitation of offshore and onshore hydrocarbons throughout the national territory. of the sixth item on the agenda is the joint assessment of Petition No 439 / XIII / 3. a ( Maria Cristina Pacheco Rodrigues et al.) — Creating legislation to enable animal colonies and the Bill No. 918 / XIII / 3. a (NAP) — Determines the eligibility of feeding of errant animals. on the seventh item of the agenda, the motion for a resolution No 76 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Consultation between the Portuguese Republic and the Federal Republic of Brazil, which creates the Monteiro Lobato Prize for Literature for Children and Youth, signed in Salvador on 5 May 2017. of the eighth item is the Report and Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2017. in the end, there will be scheduled votes. Even before closing the session, Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro will report on the file he has entered the Bureau : You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted, Law Proposal No 172 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Military Programming Act, which falls to 3. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted, Law Projects Nos 1052 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening the rights of teachers in particular and cooperative education by making the first amendment to the Statute for the Special Cooperative Education of a non-relevant level, which falls to 8. the Commission, and 944 / XIII / 3. a ( Legislature of Citizens) — Full consideration of the teaching service time provided during the pre-2018 accounting suspensions for the purposes of progress and remunerative valuation, which falls to 8. It also entered the Bureau and was also admitted, draft resolution No 1885 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the Assembly the amounts of the Fund for Financing Decentralisation in 2019, which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-20.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 37 minutes.]]
