ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will enter our agenda, the first item of which is the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 177 / XIII — Eighth amendment to Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Organization Act, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ), the second amendment to Organic Law No 2 / 2003, of 22 August ( Political Parties Act ), the seventh amendment to Law No 19 / 2003, of 20 June ( Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns Funding Act ) and the first amendment to Organic Law No 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Organization and Operation Law of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing ). An order has not been drawn up for the speeches in this debate, so the Bureau is waiting for you to sign up. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause.]] To open the debate, Mr José Silvano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are conducting a review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic on the financing of political parties and election campaigns, which was politically vetoed by Mr. President of the Republic on 2 January this year, after an agreement with the majority of the party forces represented in this Assembly, deliberate at the Conference of Leaders, so that this reassessment would take place after the PSD Congress and the entry into office of the new party leader. in the message addressed to this House, Mr President of the Republic stressed that as regards the regime for the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns, « political parties are obliged to give special publicity and transparency » and that there were two topics « particularly relevant » for which « no justification was presented for the option of the legislator », referring in particular to « the end of any global limit to private financing » and « non-reduction of public financing translated into the VAT exemption scheme (tax on added value ). With regard to advertising and transparency, the working group and the Assembly of the Republic, which approved this diploma on 21 December 2017, were publicly accused of having prepared in secret and with solutions surrounded by opacity. But it is worth explaining that the same was the result of a long, intense and exhaustive work done in Parliament over several months in close cooperation with the Constitutional Court with a view to obtaining a consensus text on this matter. To say 'with reservation' we accept, but 'in secret' is purely a lie, still today appear in the portal of the Assembly of the Republic the summons of the meetings of the working group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u4	It is recalled that it was the Constitutional Court that sent to the Assembly of the Republic, on 27 October 2016, a document in which it raised various problems, including issues of unconstitutionality, related to the matter now in question: the financing of parties and electoral campaigns. These questions were appreciated and reflected by an informal working group formed under 1. the Commission, which operated over six months in an absolutely exemplary manner and in compliance with all the rules of procedure, as it has, moreover, been widely recognised by the Members of all parties — of all parties! — including CDS-PP at the meeting of 1. the Commission of 10 January as set out in the Annex thereto. [[Greetings from PSD and PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] Could it have been made differently? I could, sir. Procedures can always be changed and the rule of transparency in the legislative process can always be deepened. That is what we have done, and so here we are again discussing this theme, with an extended grid, which allows a much more complete and specific foundation, in order to give full transparency to the arguments presented and to its basis. In addition, the time since the first approval, about two months ago, has served to ensure that this theme is discussed throughout the social communication, with lively debates and access, sometimes even with opportunistic and populist arguments, which allowed the full clarification of the subjects concerned. We therefore understand that one of the reasons for the presidential veto is being met, which was to « proceed to debate and reasoning, with public knowledge of the solutions adopted on the model of partisan functioning», and also to clarify the citizens. As regards the content of the amendments introduced, it should be pointed out that this diploma contains more than one dozen amendments and that only two of them, referring to one law of the four that have been amended, which is the Financing Act, have merited public challenge and reparations from the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u5	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u6	The two questions concern the exemption of VAT from political parties and the elimination of the limit of the allocation of funds. As regards the first question, on the exemption from VAT, the intention of the PSD to adopt the amendment to Article 10. it was simply to clarify that the benefit of exemption from VAT to political parties affects the total purchase of goods and services for its activity, thus seeking to limit the margin of interpretative discretion of the Tax Authority in the face of the current drafting. Obviously, it was not intended to allow, as some have argued, parties to be able to claim VAT for the acquisition of goods and services, regardless of their purpose. That was never the intention of the PSD. No, this benefit exists only—as, moreover, it would already appear from the previous draft—to the strict extent that the acquisition of goods and services is destined for the political party's activity as such, and not when the political party acts in other garments that have nothing to do with its activity. Therefore, the existence of a purpose remains, as it could not cease to be. This justification had, in the public and published opinion and in the President of the Republic, a different interpretation from what we wanted to give it, going beyond public opinion the idea that VAT exemption was being extended to political parties. Even the question of electoral campaigns was not, nor was it ever, in our intention, covered, until the systematic inclusion of the rule of Article 10. Chapter II, relating to the financing of the parties, not Chapter III, relating to the financing of the electoral campaigns, enables the conclusion that the campaign costs are clearly outside because under the norm only and so are the current management costs of political parties. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u7	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is the intention, another is the public perception of these amendments. Therefore, and because we do not want the citizens to be doubted, we resolve, in accordance with a public commitment made by the current PSD President, Dr. Rui Rio, and also by the other candidate for elections, to present a proposal for an amendment to this issue, eliminating the proposal contained in the Decree and keeping the current wording in force. We therefore propose that Article 10 be deleted. that of the Decree and keep in force the precept enshrined in the present Law — nothing more crystall and perceptible, so that no doubts remain with the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u9	Although we understand that there is no contradiction, we also assume that this amendment gives citizens more confidence and that there will no longer be VAT exemption for political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u11	What is essential for the PSD is that there is no doubt for the citizens that political parties will have no more royalties than those provided for in the current legislation or a different treatment in relation to the rest of Portuguese. We do not want another perception in public opinion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u12	If this amendment is adopted, there is no doubt about the transitional standard; if it is not adopted, and with caution, the question of VAT retroactivity is also clarified with our amendment to this standard. It is recalled that, in the public debate, there was an attempt to make it believe that the legislative amendment on VAT was retroactive, since the transitional rule referred to the application of the new law to new and pending proceedings which, at the date of its entry into force, were awaiting trial, without prejudice to the validity of the acts practised under the previous law. Nothing more false, since the transitional rule, although it did not carry out the type of processes to which it referred, could only refer, as is evident, to the proceedings relating to the accounts of political parties and electoral campaigns, because only in this type of process, and in no other, did affect the legislative amendments introduced by the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic, as was the intention of the Constitutional Court, when it suggested the introduction of this norm, and even its operation. But in this matter too, time has taught us that it is better to prevent than to remedy. On the second question, it was understood that the end of the limit of fund raising was too low and easily reachable, which created constraints in the conduct of major events. Moreover, the Constitutional Court had already signalled to Parliament that it would be desirable to restate the legal regime applicable to major partisan events. by making a reflection on this matter, it was appropriate to remove the limit established for revenue from fund raising, since there is total transparency in relation to this type of revenue, which are mandatoryly registered and discriminated against on own lists, annexed to the accounts of the parties, and there is total scrutiny and supervision by the Entity of Accounts. Individual donations are also defined and how they are donated. The law makes this regulation and the final value does not bring us special concerns. We understand that, in this matter, regardless of the individual position, the broad consensus reached would not affect the principles of the PSD in this working group. Having clarified with full transparency the rationale of the legislator's option on the two controversial issues, it should be stressed that the Assembly Decree now under consideration has introduced a set of other improvements in the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns, most of which have been suggested by the Constitutional Court, of which, by its relevance, it is important to highlight the most important and nobody talks about. with regard to the supervision of the accounts, the Authority shall be empowered to investigate the irregularities and illegalities of the accounts of political parties and electoral campaigns and to apply, where appropriate, their fines, with the possibility of appeal, with suspensive effect, to the Constitutional Court, which shall decide in plenary. It is clear, and should be the subject of concern, that the main amendment contained in this Decree did not even go through social communication. Sometimes the media agenda does not correspond to the concerns expressed by the Constitutional Court about this legislation. [[Greetings from PSD and PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] thus, it is ensured, on the one hand, respect for the principle of the prosecution, ensuring that the entity responsible for the assessment of the performance of the accounts is not the same as the possible irregularities and illegalities, and, on the other hand, the existence of the right to appeal, either of decisions which find irregularities and illegalities in the provision of accounts, or of decisions on the application of fines to political and respective parties or to the financial agents of the electoral campaigns. Therefore, the constitutional doubts raised by the current legal regime in this regard are definitely healed, following the model suggested and preferred by the Constitutional Court. With this debate and with these arguments, the PSD understands that the reasons for the amendments introduced are objectively substantiated, as well as the specific and detailed reasons for changing these four laws. In conclusion, I believe that the PSD has based on the reasons for the amendments introduced, demonstrated concern with greater transparency in the legislative process and made the reasons and reasons for this proposal public and voteable. [[Greetings from PSD and PS MP Ascenso Simões.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u13	On behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is clear that the time has come to put a final point in a discussion that has been fueled by unhealthy ingredients to our democracy and that, in good rigour and regrettably, they have only contributed to discrediting political parties and, above all, to discredit this House. Let's go to the facts or, better, let's go to the ingredients. First, we heard voices say that the amendments to the law were unconstitutional. It happens that, until today, no one has been able to identify the norm of our Constitution which is at issue with these amendments. On this matter, absolute silence. But we understand why that silence. No one has identified the constitutional norm just and just because there is no confrontation with our Constitution. Still, the question of the unconstitutionality of these changes fuelled the discussion for weeks. Now, this example shows very clearly the distorted path that the discussion has known. That is why we are talking about unhealthy ingredients for our democracy. Then came the discussion of the working group, as if it were not usual in the legislative process the existence of working groups. Yes, there was a working group, as has always been, as there is, and how there will continue to be in the very varied legislative processes, in the same terms, with the same rules of operation and with the same objective. Then came the secretism conversation when, after all, all parliamentary groups participated in this working group. The NAP Member certainly did not participate by choice, because he could have asked for his participation in the working group, but he did not. But more: the agenda of this law was made by consensus at the Conference of Leaders, without opposition from any political force, including the forces that voted against these amendments. And the same is said about the times distributed for your discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u16	In fact, the grid established for the discussion of these amendments was also consensual at the Conference of Leaders, which was also sensitive to the request of the NAP, which required time for this discussion but which ultimately did not use. Therefore, on the ingredients that the discussion has known, in procedural terms, we are duly clarified.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u18	As regards the content of the amendments, it is important first of all to bear in mind that the law currently in force presents problems in terms of its conformity with our Constitution, problems that were even signalled by the Constitutional Court itself and that the diploma we are now re-appreciating is definitely solved. On the amendments tabled now, I want to say that the Greens have always defended a system of semi-public financing of the parties and therefore it does not seem to us to make sense that they impose limits on the parties' own activity in order to raise funds. In other words, as long as this fund raising meets the criteria of transparency and supervision, we see no reason to limit the political parties' own activity and therefore we consider it meaningless to limit or establish funds or ceilings for the raising of funds by political parties. With regard to VAT, it was intended to prevent it from being the Tax Authority to decide which actions fall within the concept of party activity. It is intended to withdraw the discretionary power of the Tax Authority to decide, for example, that, in some cases, a congress or convention of a particular party fits the concept of party activity while in other cases it decides that it does not fit, as in other cases, with the Ecological Party 'The Greens'. That is, sometimes it fits that concept, sometimes it doesn't. For some parties it always fits, for others, or for that. That is exactly what we are trying to avoid. In view of what has been said, the Greens follow the amendments which seek to clarify the VAT regime, i.e. the transitional standard proposed by the PSD, the proposal of the Left Block and the proposal of the Socialist Party. But we do not follow the amendments proposed by the CDS and the PAN, which are, in fact, exactly the same, without taking or putting away, and we fail to understand the reasons why the proponents want to limit the action, activities and dynamics of political parties, with a view to raising funds For us, we prefer to give the parties space to raise their funds because we do not expect or accept that any saint will come from, not knowing where, contributing to the parties' finances, whether Mr Jacinto, whether Mr Leite or Mr Capelo. If you come, you will only be accepted if you are within the law and properly identified, with all transparency, as required in a state of democratic law. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u19	Mrs. Members, there are several banks that have not yet spoken on this subject, but the Bureau does not record any more entries. Can we now proceed to the vote? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see very well the logic of the tactical importance of the order of inscriptions, but you will know. One thing is right: we can't wait for many more seconds. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u20	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u21	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u22	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u23	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u24	Mr President, I would like to explain that we are respecting the parliamentary practice of following up on the amendments tabled by their predecessor. That is the only point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u25	This was not the case, because the first amendment tabled is from the CDS, which I have not yet spoken about. Moreover, what I said right at the beginning is that there were no rules of precedence in these inscriptions and therefore that argument does not take.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u26	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u27	To what effect, Mr Nuno Magalhães?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u28	Mr President, on a request from the Bureau, I would also like to say, as Mr President has clarified, that the criterion was not mentioned by Mr Delgado Alves, so the CDS did not register. But since, on the left side of the majority, no one wants to talk, I take advantage of writing to Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u29	Of course. Thank you very much. Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss the veto of H.E. the President of the Republic to the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic on the financing of parties. The bill that gave rise to it was the authorship of the PSD, the PS, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, not having the CDS accepted to subscribe to it. It did not accept that, having established a working group to respond to the concerns of the Constitutional Court, within which it was expressly agreed that a consensual project would be submitted among all those who would accept the solutions proposed by that Court, the CDS considers it unacceptable that those parties had taken advantage of making other amendments, namely by modifying the refund of VAT to all party expenses. In other words, they extended the VAT allowance to all expenditure of the parties, even for expenditure without any connection to political activity. From the outset, the CDS said it was against these changes, which it considered unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u32	Secondly, since the Constitutional Court warned of the difficulties in monitoring fundraising actions and called for measures from the parties, instead of strengthening the control mechanisms, the solution that those parties found was to remove the legal limit for these parties' business. It was a terrible solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u34	Again, the CDS was opposed from the beginning. But when the PSD, PS, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, contrary to what had been agreed, refused to withdraw those proposals from the draft consensus, there was no other solution left to the CDS except to refuse to sign the same and vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u36	For the CDS, these amendments constitute a serious and serious setback in what is required of the parties today. These accounts should be more monitored, more transparent, with more funding limits. They are, in fact, changes which, in our view, substantially change the current nature of the financing of the parties, which is tends to be public, with the risk of transforming the parties into fund-raising companies which are tax-subsidised. In view of the misunderstanding of public opinion, it was natural for us that the President of the Republic, who has, in fact, thought about the matter, should rule the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u38	We welcome this opportunity given to all — I stress, everyone! — in order to hear Mr President's wise words, if he had held the debate which is mandatory, a debate on these amendments which are publicly voted on. Unfortunately, this debate is not done and has not been done with the participation of society, as it should have been, and the criticisms and doubts we have raised regarding this law remain.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u40	For the CDS, no amendments on this matter can be approved, and anyone who does not want populism to arise has the responsibility to not give reasons for populism to arise. in understanding the CDS was what happened because of direct responsibility of the parties proposing this law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u42	Therefore, it does not help to criticize populism on this issue when responsibility is yours! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u43	Yours and only yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u44	Therefore, the CDS, accepting the Constitutional Court's suggestions, does not oppose these amendments, but proposes that the present limit be maintained in the law for fund-raising, which is €630 000, that no party has passed so far, and that the previous wording on VAT exemption be maintained. More: in view of the doubts that have arisen regarding the retrospective application of this law, the so-called retroactivity, the CDS believes that it should be clear from the transitional standard that these changes are only — I underline, only! — for the proceedings for the supervision of the accounts of the parties pending the Constitutional Court, which was indeed only what the Constitutional Court asked us to do. Make it clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u45	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u46	The CDS cannot fail to note that the Left Block now proposes, in this debate, the extension of VAT subsidy to works in the headquarters of the parties. There was no debate on this subject or justification. We cannot support this solution without this debate with society and without such scrutiny.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u47	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u48	The PS knows that the law currently in force already prohibits the exemption from VAT in relation to campaign costs, because it is unconstitutional, because it questions the principle of equality between applications. Neither the coalitions nor the groups of citizens can have access to this exemption, which translates into a duplication of the public subsidy for campaigns, which, in fact, already has consistent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, saying that it is not admissible. The PS pretends to clarify what is already clear for all parties less for the Socialist Party, which is the only party that continues to claim the VAT of campaigns. Therefore, for the CDS this simulation is not acceptable. The CDS will maintain its consistency to the end. We have heard and respected Mr President of the Republic, we have heard and respected what the country is saying to us and what it is telling the parties. And unless these amendments are eliminated, which have been made without a debate with society, there is no other solution than to vote against the law. I call on all parties to hold this debate, and that is the last appeal I want to leave. I called in the working group, called in the debate on this law and I continue to appeal now. [[PS protests.]] Listen! Listen to the criticisms that are being directed at us, otherwise there will be no other solution left, we will not be consistent, and we will vote against. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u49	Mr President, Mr José de Matos Rosa of the PSD Parliamentary Group was appointed to request clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, I would like to make a statement of interest: we have campaigned together — I was campaign manager and you were a financial representative. So, to clarify everyone, I would like to say that we have already participated in several campaigns, we have already been in proceedings with the same law, without asking questions or problems. Mr António Carlos Monteiro, I would like to make it clear that I do not see - as you and your party say in the explanatory statement of the amendments they are proposing now - how supervision and transparency are at stake with the amendments that have been made in this legislative process. with regard to the raising of funds — as well as even clarification, because what was on the basis of the amendment was a question of clarification on what might or might not be returned, in terms of VAT, in the activities of the parties — the question that I leave concerns first and foremost with Article 3. the Act No. 19 / 2003, which concerns the parties' own revenue, the current management of the parties. Point (d) of paragraph 1 of that Law states that the parties' own revenue is «the proceeds of fund-raising activities developed by them»; paragraph 2 mentions that «the revenue referred to in the previous paragraph, when in cash, is required to be entitled by cheque(...) »; and paragraph 3 states that «the amounts of lower value... » in other words, may be in cash «... 25 % of the social support indexer, briefly designated by IAS(...), provided that the value of the IAS does not exceed 50 times in the period of one year. In other words, the question I am asking you now is: is there any change in money in the raising of funds from current management parties? Is there any change in values since the beginning of the law, since the initial drafting of the law? Another question I would like to ask you is whether or not it is true that the spirit of the working group — taking away its doubts and the fact that it does not want to, do not like or do not approve the amendments to VAT — has always been to clarify the VAT issues? I would also like to ask you another question: will there not be two pesos and two measures on the part of the CDS? I will not speak in populism or something I did not like, which was to hear words like « business». These issues of party financing are very serious, while I have had responsibilities in this area I have always taken them very seriously and, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, I think that you, for what I know, for which I have lived with you in this area, should not treat these things as business, as you have dealt with here. [[PSD applause.]] Mr António Carlos Monteiro, I ask you — I will not talk to you about populism — if there are no two pesos and two measures on this issue on the part of the CDS. And I would like to ask you why you approved the amendment to Article 16 (4). o. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u51	To reply, Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u52	Mr President, Mr Matos Rosa, with all the friendship and all the respect I have told you from the outset that the CDS has drawn attention to the fact that these amendments should not be made. More: you know that with regard to the end of the limit in fund raising, what the Constitutional Court has basically told us was « attention, which goes too fast; we need more radars, because we cannot control what is happening ». And what was the answer that the Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, do you understand? It was: it ends with the speed limit. And that was a solution to which the CDS, from the beginning, said it was against. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, with all my friendship I tell you that we never hide what we were going to do in the working group. You know that you have agreed that a draft consensus would be adopted. Now, after that it is agreed, if they tell us "there are two standards with which we do not agree, you who leave the consensus", the responsibility is not yours, because they have not yet complied with what was combined in the working group. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u53	He didn't answer anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u54	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u55	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u56	Mr President, I have asked Mr Carlos Monteiro two more questions — on the amendment to Article 16(4). the and on Article 3. o — which I would like you to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u57	Mr President, this regiment figure does not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u58	Mr. President, I am very sorry, but we liked to be clarified.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u59	Mr António Carlos Monteiro replied as he understood and the Bureau could not force him to respond in any other way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u60	You'll hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u61	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we are discussing must be, in the first place, a serious debate based on facts, a debate based on law, a debate based on what we want to put in the law where parties are financed. It was with perplexity that we heard Mr.António Carlos Monteiro's speech, which came to be proclaimed as the arauto of the absence of populism. The CDS is the party that chose to make outdoors on a complex topic publicly, in a way that minimizes, simplifies and reduces, choosing to become a partner of the Socialist Alternative Movement (MAS), which is the other party that has populist and demagogic posters to say: « End of public financing of the parties ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is his companion of populism, demagogy, lack of coherence and lack of willingness to participate seriously in this debate. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u63	Indeed, no one wants to ride the sometimes easy discontent with the parties. This also does not mean that parties are perfect beings. The parties are obviously organizations composed of people, good people and bad people. The parties sometimes fail, often succeed, and therefore the debate is not that, the debate is not about virtues, the debate is not philosophical; the debate is very clearly about how we want to finance the parties, how we want to ensure that the parties are not kidnapped by economic interests and therefore we have remedies in force. And we continue to have these same remedies in the law in force, because the law continues to prohibit financing by companies, because the law continues to determine that there are limits to individual donors, because the law creates mechanisms to monitor these forms of financing, which were not subject to change. Here I am making the words of Mr Matos Rosa a short time ago. And I was also hoping that the honourable Member would clarify, then, where the vote has disappeared, where the control has disappeared, where the rules that make the change in terms of aggregation totally unbearable have been changed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also interesting to check the behavior of the CDS in this debate: "We participate in the working group, we go to the end, we seriously do the work of building a consensus solution, but, at the end of the hour, we find that there is an opportunity for a populist gain and there, we hardly find a pretext, we jump out. And we jumped out wrong the pretext appears». [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] And it is well demonstrated how this happens, because the CDS tells us: "This process was only aimed at solving the doubts of irregularities or possible unconstitutionality in the link between the Constitutional Court and the Entity of Accounts. That was the only effort we could make, everything else is illegitimate, everything else is not acceptable." But curiously, for example, with the transfer of public spaces for events, also added matter, because it was an interpretative difficulty, for the CDS no longer a problem — "we no longer violate the rules of the working group, there no longer is a difficulty..." So selectively, in the background, what the CDS comes to do is see where it achieves the cause gain for its demagogic purpose, putting it on top of the debate. That's not serious, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, that does not correspond to what has been articulated. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is, of course, a long, complex process, a process that began precisely by identifying the need for clarifications in the law. The Constitutional Court noted several of these perplexities and difficulties and the Assembly of the Republic sought to correspond, as clearly and as robust as possible. And he did what he does every day, what the parties do, what he does in a parliamentary debate and in a political debate: to set up a working group, a legitimate way of organizing parliamentary work, which is legitimately framed by 1. the Commission, in a legitimate manner which has not granted the coming to this Plenary, a legitimate way which has always allowed the collection of contributions, the participation of civil society and the holding of the debate. But, in this context, we are obviously sensitive to what Mr President of the Republic told us: I still felt that it was not enough, that still, with regard to these complementary, additional aspects, Parliament could make an added effort. That is what Parliament has done. That is what Parliament did when it read Mr President's message and produced statements in that sequence; that is what the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group did, by the voice of Mr Jorge Lacão, who made a political statement on this subject, placing the points on us and effectively stressing the topic, the debate in which all parties participated. And here we do it again today, with the possibility of participation of all, with the inclusion and placing of the theme on the agenda, as it should be effectively placed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we're in a constitutional normality plan. The President of the Republic exercises his powers in the way he intends to do this and we understand the message and we are doing what we think must be done in this same debate: with institutional cooperation, with the Constitutional Court, the way of doing it, and all the parties in this Chamber, until they were participating in the working group, they also recognized that there was here a way of consensus and seeking to build consensus, as indeed, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, we did in the past. The fact that we are a working group does not bother us with agreeing on all matters. One aspect that has nothing to do with this, but in which we have even managed to build a solution consensually, for example, is the amendment to the electoral law in which we proposed and agglomerated very diverse proposals, some of the Left Block, others of the CDS, others of the Socialist Party. We have reached a final consensus which has not been approved by all, which has had different votes in the specialty. But consensus is not mandatory. In democracy, there is room for dissent and there is room for differentiated votes in the specialty. This cannot be an excuse to say that all others, anatomically, are perfectly unworthy and to disqualify them because of a normal process in democracy. This is unacceptable in the way the CDS has behaved in this debate, in the way it is abusing the normal procedure to attempt political gain. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Very synthetically, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to this debate with the intention of clarifying the doubts where they exist. We have always said that this availability existed and what we have tried to put forward in the amendments that we put forward today was precisely that clarification, that clarification. We have always expressed a desire to make it absolutely clear that we were not trying to obtain more in this process than the clarification of matters which are, in fact, dubious legal interpretation and cause problems, generators of uncertainty, generators, even of discretion in the way entities are addressed. It is not logical, it is not rational that, for the purposes of classification of expenditure, a flag is considered one thing, but the stick of that same flag already has a different classification. This is not an academic example, it is a concrete example of what the interpretative difficulty today generates in how the parties organise their accounts and, in this case, how they proceed in particular with regard to VAT matters. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is on the table is a process of structured legislative changes, studied and designed to solve problems, which also contribute to the qualification and improvement of legislation and thus the way our democracy is presented. It is in this context that we present ourselves in this debate, with this openness, with this desire to reach a compromise, but also fully realizing, Mr President, that we do not have to agree on all matters and that unanimity is not the normal way of functioning a democracy. But seriously, that has to be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u64	Mr António Filipe spoke for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The positions of the CFP on party financing have always been clear, but we will try to be even clearer. The financing law of the parties that has been in force since 2003 is a bad law. He had the vote against and the strong opposition of the PCP. The amendments adopted in December last year, even if they are fully confirmed today, do not make it a good law. It is a law that assumes a persecutive stance of party activity, it is a law that, in the name of transparency, allows for the fire, it is a law that unjustifiably penalizes parties who do not intend to live at the expense of the State and who seek, by the effort of their militants and supporters, to obtain the financial resources necessary for its operation. The amendments adopted to the party financing law were raised on the initiative of the Constitutional Court, which identified various unconstitutionalities and dysfunctionalities of the law in force. We agreed to vote on all these suggestions, even if the solutions proposed were not ours. In addition, approximately a dozen other proposals were introduced at the initiative of several parties, aimed at correcting aspects recognizedly absurd of the law and collecting abusive and arbitrary interpretations in its application, either by the Entity of Accounts or by the Tax Authority. These changes do not turn a bad law into a good law, but they had a positive meaning to which the PCP gave its agreement. The wave of indignation which the public opinion intended to introduce in public view these amendments to the party financing law was not based on facts, it was based on intentions, mistifications and gross distortions of the meaning and content of the amendments adopted, as it is very easy to demonstrate, and it does not understand only who deliberately does not want to understand. The CFP assumed, and assumed, its positions in this process, as it did, in 2003, with all clarity and frontality, and did not let itself be intimidated by campaigns against the parties, of fascinating slope, however much its media impact. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] There may be those who are intimidated, there may be those who, because of political cowardice, want to say otherwise, there may be those who want to navigate the wave and increase it as much as they can, thinking, get political dividends immediately, but the attitude of the CFP is not that, it has not been, and it will never be. We've always said that parties aren't all the same...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u66	They're not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u67	... and that the perception by citizens of the fundamental differences between the projects of society, the political positions and the practical attitudes of the various parties is fundamental in a democratic society. But also for this reason, we continually reject any idea that parties should be subject to permanent suspicion or be subjected to persecution legal mechanisms as if they were gangs of criminals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u69	The financing of the parties shall be provided with mechanisms of transparency and rigour and shall be subject to adequate supervision of their nature, in order to ensure compliance with the law and carried out by the parties themselves, in respect of the law. Two issues were particularly addressed in the campaign against changes to the party financing law. The first question concerns the elimination of the absurd provision restricting the possibility of raising funds to an annual limit of 1500 IAS ( indexing social support ). The question that we should ask is: does this limitation make any sense? The obtaining of revenue by the parties is subject to stricter supervision. An entity was created that does nothing but that, in the 15 years of application of the current law, turned and revised all supporting documentation of the parties' accounts and devased actions and initiatives with a persecutive arrogance to spray, sometimes, provocation, inventing alleged illegalities and imposing criteria without legal basis, subject to unilateral changes to the taste of the wind.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u71	Who says party revenue is not controlled, doesn't know what you're talking about. There is no public or private entity subject to control of their accounts as tight as the political parties are. It is therefore necessary to ask which title and which legitimacy is withdrawn from a private entity — the parties are legal persons of private law — the right to legally and extensively control the means necessary to ensure their survival and activity. There is no other non-profit entity subject to such restriction. The imposition of limits on fund raising is an absurd limitation, without any constitutional support, on the freedom of political action of the parties and on the freedom of citizens to contribute to party activity. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] The second question concerns the exemption from VAT. It should be made clear that this exemption was unanimously approved in 2000 and did not give rise to any criticism, nor was it the subject of any dispute, either by public opinion or by published opinion. In fact, it was not even a Portuguese originality, because the European VAT directive expressly provides for such exemption. It is absolutely clear that there is no exemption from VAT to parties in the transmission of goods or services which are likely to cause distortions of competition, and no one has proposed any change to that provision.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u72	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u73	What happens is that the exemption set out in the law on the acquisition and transmission of goods and services aimed at disseminating the political message or identity itself through any media, printed, audiovisual or multimedia media, including those used as propaganda material and means of communication and transport, has been denied by the Tax Authority on an absolute basis of discretion. What was intended with the amendments introduced was not to extend the exemption but only to prevent illegal taxation to which parties have been subject by the Tax Authority, which in some cases considers that there is exemption because yes and that in other cases considers that there is no exemption because no, according to such unsound criteria as the mysteries of faith.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u75	It is obvious that this matter needs to be clarified by interpretation, so that the law is not applied in a case-by-case and discretionary manner. And that is what it was intended to do, clarifying that the exemption affects the acquisition of goods and services for party activity — political activity, of course, because neither could it be — and without changing the point which prohibits that exemption may entail distortions in competition. Mr. President and Mr. Members: In conclusion, the CFP reaffirms its willingness to confirm the vetoed diploma, accepting only the proposals to clarify the meaning of the provisions adopted. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u76	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We appreciate today a diploma which the NAP voted against and which returned to Parliament by veto of the President of the Republic. In addition to the alleged objective of accepting some of the Constitutional Court's suggestions to clarify some rules relating to the monitoring of party accounts, the proponents of the initiative took the opportunity to include other substantial amendments, including the extension of the VAT refund of all party expenditure, resulting in an indirect increase in party subsidisation and violation of the principle of equality between electoral candidates of parties and groups of citizens. And this also means a duplication of the public subsidy of election campaigns. In addition, the inclusion of the elimination of the limit in fund allocations is sensitive to best practices of transparency due to the impossibility of traceability and monitoring.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u78	Opportunist!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u79	Funding, with a high ceiling or no limit, as the proponents want, means no more than turning parties into laundry. This standard — that of laundry — establishes a backwardness for a fully opaque party financing model. [[PSD, PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u80	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let the speaker speak. You may continue, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Similar relevance presents the transitional standard establishing the applicability of the law adopted to the proceedings under way not only in the Constitutional Court but also in the Administrative and Fiscal Court, which opens the door to fiscal amnesty. In addition to expressing disagreement about the content of the amendments referred to above, we disagree in the wrong way as the legislative process went wrong, in a matter where the legislation in question is concerned. Thus, the stages and the dignity of the legislative process have been overcome. [[PSD, PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u82	False! Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u83	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to allow the speaker to continue his speech. [[Pause.]] Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u84	The right of right of initiative to be taken over has not been safeguarded and the speciality phase has been abolished. The principle of advertising, which belongs to the open democracy of an open society, has been violated.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u85	You had three months to say something and you didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u86	In January, the NAP proposed, at two points, that Parliament should hold an extended debate, not at the closed door. We couldn't, we didn't have the necessary support.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u87	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u88	Mr. President, I will finish. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today, in the only debate that the parties wanted to do, to which they call for enlargement, we have chosen only to reverse the three amendments set out, proposing that they be eliminated, not presenting any changes in substance in respect of the congruence with which we have just defended. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u89	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u90	The debate on the financing and monitoring model of the parties cannot be summed up in a 90-minute discussion in plenary, with final votes immediately and without listening to the citizens and the various entities that build our democracy. [[PSD, PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u91	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to remain silent so that you can speak to the next speaker. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate demands much more seriousness than we had in the previous speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u94	As regards the question that was raised on the table about whether there was any amendment to the law which, firstly, would favour any lack of transparency in the financing of the parties, secondly, would empower some corruption activity that had been prevented and would now be expected and, thirdly, would withdraw any control capacity to the supervisory body of the accounts, the clear, unequivocal and incapacitated answer from here to be rejected by any parliamentary bench, to each of these questions is 'no'! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The need for transparency has not been reduced to the funding of the political parties that previously existed! All that is said contrary to this matter is demagogy and populism, and the Left Block immediately demarcates these statements. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u95	That said, let's go to the point. There are amendments that have been made to the law that arise first from a request from the Constitutional Court. What did the Constitutional Court clearly tell the Assembly of the Republic? He said that either they changed the party financing law or it would be declared unconstitutional, creating a black hole in party financing. On this matter, tell everyone and all, the Left Block has always had the same opinion, that we could not accept the creation of a black hole in monitoring the financing of the parties. We would not accept that this would happen, contrary to what some banks wanted. On this subject, a working group was set up, which, over several months, reached consensus but had a number of disagreements, and on this debate, a lot has already been said, and I am not going to repeat it. I wanted to say, however, that the result of the working group was of early public knowledge, months before the discussion in plenary. Does this mean that there was some mistake or that there was no error in scheduling the discussion of the amendments introduced to the party financing law? No, that's not it. There has clearly been a mistake in the way it has been, hurriedly and even halved, scheduled this debate. We understand: CDS, PSD, PAN inclusive, PS, PCP, no parliamentary bench opposed to this schedule. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u97	So, all they now say on their contrary is false, it's a lie! Whether the NAP, either the CDS — I repeat, the NAP, or the CDS — could have said something about it at the Conference of Leaders and did not say,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u98	We said! We said! I wasn't there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u99	... having only intervened in this debate, in which they had different opinions about the content, it is true, but about their scheduling they had no different opinions. Mr Pan will say: "Well, we at the Leaders Conference have no opinion! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Many times they had an opinion to ask for more time, which they even did in this debate, but they had no opinion to say « does not argue». On this matter, there was a mistake, yes. The Left Block took this mistake and clearly said that we should have been careful in the agenda of the debate. from then on to say that there are now impaluted virgins in this Assembly of the Republic is not only manifestly exaggerated as accompanying a demagogy and a populism, which we have to dismantle with the truth of the facts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u100	Turning to specific issues, to the fundamental question of 'what is the model of party financing that exists in our country? », answer: the party financing model is the mix, it is the one that allows private financing and has a public funding base. The Left Block defends this mixed financing model for two reasons: firstly, because public funding is dependent on a electoral representation than smaller parties, the most recent parties, may not have and, if private financing is not allowed, they are prevented from having party activity. This is the fundamental point: it is impossible to defend democracy, the emergence of new political forms or new political forces exactly with the model that the NAP defended in the previous intervention. This is the great attack on democracy and, under a flag of demagogy, it goes on to say no, attacking the possibility of new political forces to dispute what public opinion and democracy is. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Why is the existence of public activity and public funding important? Public funding, in addition to ensuring equity between political forces and that party activity, in fact, is a bulwark of democracy, which we do not devalue, also obliges supervision, which is necessary. This is because we know that many of those who say « there is only private financing », what they are saying is « they do not control the financing of the parties, let any interests co-opt the party activity ». That is why the Left Block demands that there be good monitoring of party funding and that is why, when there is public funding, we say that it is also necessary because it is the counterpoint necessary to impose that public supervision. Having said this, and going back to the initial point of the intervention: is there any slowdown in public supervision? The answer is 'no! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” on a fundamental point, already raised here, that of the limit of fund-raising, "I will not even discuss..." — the CDS said — "...if that limit has ever been reached". It's never been! Therefore, in practice, it is more a theoretical debate than a practical debate. By the way, the Constitutional Court itself has an interpretation that makes it even more absurd to reach this limit, because it says that the result, the revenue, of fund-raising activities should be discounted from the value that was used as expenditure for the construction of these fund-raising activities. Therefore, in practice, the example often pointed out, that of the Festival of the Front! , in recent years, it has even been detrimental from the accounting point of view, as it is easily and publicly visible and taxable on the Entity of Accounts website. But going to the concrete, to the debate: what is currently required for fundraising activities? First, financing by companies is prohibited. So that phrase that Mr Carlos Monteiro said a while ago is pure demagogy! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] It is prevented from financing by companies! We know what the CDS's past is in this matter — we remember, we have memory...! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] It ran the year 2004 and left the CDS headquarters bags for the BES counter ( Banco Espírito Santo ). It was €1,060 250, in notes, which was deposited in the party accounts. We remember! We remember! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] Therefore, you well preach the CDS of what you know, you well preach what you know! The amount of €1,060 250, in notes, live money, was taken by CDS employees and, record, each deposit was duly checked to have the limit of €12,500.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u101	Have shame on your face!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u102	Why? Because, above that, the bank had to report because it was suspected of corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u103	Of corruption? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u104	So, they left this value of €1,060 250 in slices of €12,500 to fake the law and escape this supervision.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u105	Look at the despair! Have shame on your face!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u106	We know! The history of the CDS on this subject leaves no doubt! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Turning to more constructive issues, I repeat what I have already said: there is no slowdown in the supervision of party funding on the public side, and this has always been the fundamental point of the Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u107	You don't have any shame in your face.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u108	Finally, because we will still have time to continue this debate on VAT matters, the Block now repeats what I said in the working group — in fact, in the working group we voted against the rule in the Assembly Decree which has been vetoed. That is to say, we did not consider that there was a fundamental problem with regard to the VAT regime in force, and we consider — we say several times, the CDS has not heard, because it only listens to what interests it — that there should be an equality between party activity and what is done in the social sector, and that is the proposal we are making today. We have always said that there would be no greater scope for VAT deductions and reimbursement for party activity. Our history of coherence means that we present the proposal that is known to all and that we vote in favour of the rules that restore the law as it is, but we consider them insufficient for what we propose and which do not limit, or end, the proposal of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u109	Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are, of course, dealing with sensitive matters, we are looking at the basis of the veto presented by Mr President of the Republic and it is fulfilling us, rather than making reciprocal attacks, trying to deal with the objectivity that the matter demands what is at stake. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u111	I shall try to focus on two key points: the VAT issue and the transitional provision point. On the first issue, it must be fully understood that no party in this House, including the CDS, proposed VAT exemption for political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u113	This is because it even seems to be the opposite, even though the CDS would be making a crusade so that political parties would not be exempt from VAT. Not at all! The CDS is in favour of the exemption from VAT by political parties, as has been the case for many years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u115	So, what's the matter? What is at stake, as has already been pointed out, is that there has been a discretionary application by the tax administration, which, in some respects, represents a real interference of criterion in the qualification of the nature of political activity. As the political parties have their own status of autonomy, as Mr António Filipe pointed out, what it would be to clarify the rule entirely in order to say that the exemption from VAT in relation to political activity would be linked to the realization of the political purposes of the parties, as these purposes are set out in the Law of the Political Parties, and to this add the precautionary rule, saying that such exemption would not apply to the period of election campaigns. I therefore address myself with the whole constructive spirit at the PSD bench: there is some basic argument, there is some argument that makes sense, to say that, since we are not contrary to the principle of exemption, we can link this principle to the rule that the activity of the parties worthy of this exemption is the one contained in the Law of the Political Parties and not any other, and at the same time ensure in the law that this exemption does not apply to the period of election campaigns? Is there any argument that may not agree with this clarification of the law?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u117	Honestly, I look forward to the PSD's opinion on this. Now, I wanted to report to the transitional standard. A lot of alleviation, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, much relief has been said about the meaning of the transitional rule. We have heard these alleviations recently, by the voice of Mr André Silva, in the light of others who have gone outside this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u119	There is one thing, however, that is important to reaffirm, and to reaffirm with all solemnity: this rule was presented to the Members by the Constitutional Court. This is, in whole, the standard presented by the Constitutional Court and it must be added that, when the Constitutional Court presented this rule to the Members, it did so in full knowledge of all, but of all, the amendments made in the law by the Members. In other words, the Constitutional Court had full knowledge of all the proposed amendments and was in full knowledge of all these amendments that proposed the transitional standard.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u121	To suspect, therefore, that the Constitutional Court had some obscure intention of favouring anyone in a standard of suitability to apply the transition of laws over time is to make a real institutional offense that this bank can in no case tolerate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This clarification is also made, we are going to the point presented in the PSD proposal, this morning, in order to try to restrict the transitional standard to proceedings within the Constitutional Court. I understand the purpose, but I ask the gentlemen. Members of the PSD who meditate on the unintended implication, certainly—I repeat again, on the unintended implication, certainly, that this approval would have. And that would be the implication that the rule would not apply to pending proceedings in the Entity of Accounts because in the Entity of Accounts there are cases concerning previous situations that have not yet reached the door of the Constitutional Court. from here, therefore, it would turn out that there would be rules for transitional application of the differentiated laws: that which would apply to pending proceedings at this time, or at the time of the entry into force of the law, to be more stringent, that they would be in the Constitutional Court and other differentiated rules that would apply to pending proceedings in the Entity of Accounts. That is to say, instead of introducing clarification, we would be creating confusion. As it is about being constructive here, what it is about here is not about forming partisan arguments, what it is about here is to understand exactly what is at stake, I appeal to the PSD that, with the same constructive spirit, it would understand that its norm would bring more perverse implications than it would solve, namely because it would no longer safeguard the acts practiced in the observance of the previous law by the Entity of Accounts itself—and that cannot be. I repeat: this cannot be!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u123	In conclusion, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to believe that, in the heat of this debate, in relation to the argument of a clarification standard on VAT and in relation to maintaining the rule of transition as the Constitutional Court has submitted it, we still have all the space to agree on and we can leave today satisfied by the convergence that we can achieve in a matter which, by its nature, allows and requires that we have a spirit of responsibility until the end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u124	The Bureau no longer registers for this point. [[Pause.]] Mr José Silvano of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like to clarify and talk about two points which have been mentioned here and which are the subject of some exaltation, at least one Member, and tell Mr PAN, André Silva, that, as I came from Trás-os-Montes, I only caught the laundry at the end of my life; formerly, it was washed in public tanks. I don't know very well how to « wash away» money and how it is « laundry», you must know this matter better than I do. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]] I tell you, with all ease, that I do not accept that political parties are equal to all other institutions, both of a public nature and of a non-profit nature, which can collect and collect all the donations they understand, and I do not accept that, just because they are political parties, they soon carry a wash in the sense that the people who belong to them want to wash money. I don't accept this label, and I don't know why you're disillusioned in a political party. I don't understand! With all sincerity, I don't understand! [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]] But I would also like to tell you something else that, for me, is more important than this: I trust in the exemption of the supervisory entities, whether the Entity of Accounts, or other entities, that monitor the accounts of political parties and also the revenue and fund-raising of political parties. I trust the supervisory authorities and I will continue to trust them, because I am covered by the democratic regime. On this matter, I just wanted to say this. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]] In answer to Mr Lacão's questions, which were very important, I would like to say the following: it is clear that his doubts are right to be and are both right to assume in the initial intervention that we have reached an agreement in the working group, by mutual concessions, by the best way of finding solutions, and we had found those solutions. But I also want to tell you, with the same will, especially with regard to VAT, that it is true that we wanted a perfectly clarifying wording, and we tried to clarify this wording, but it was not perceived by the citizens, by the public, that it was not an enlargement. Now, we want to clarify, but we do not want to extend and therefore our solution is this: how we do not want to extend, nor do we want the idea in the public view that there will be, or subjectively, any enlargement, to maintain the current law. That's our proposal. And the question, Mr. Jorge Lacão, could almost be returned as follows: if they do not want enlargement either, if we also agree with this intention, then why does the PS not also vote for the maintenance of the previous law, so that we do not take that risk? Oh, my God! On the basis of a principle of mutual good faith, we have left in force the previous law on this matter. With regard to the transitional standard, it is a different question and it is a different question on which we are available to reflect and analyse its consequences. It is clear that what was said in public opinion and in the spirit of the law on the transitional standard was the refund of VAT or the retroactivity of VAT.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u126	But that idea has no basis!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u127	If the question of VAT is settled here, if the question of VAT is adopted here, in the sense that what remains in force is exactly the VAT of the previous law and does not imply an increase in VAT exemptions, we are willing to consider that this transitional standard may not be justified and, in this case, we can compromise the withdrawal of VAT, since VAT is not in question the possibility of retroactivity, since this VAT exemption is not approved in this Chamber. So, on these issues, as regards the first one, we maintain the amendment, on the second one, depends on the result of the first one, but we will be available to make a reflection on this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u128	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record inscriptions for the use of the word. [[Pause.]] There are still many parliamentary groups that have time, but I am not going to stop our work, waiting for someone to sign up. [[Pause.]] Well, since no one registers, then let's start the voting period...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u129	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak for an intervention?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u130	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, this is a curious debate. Let us see what the country has witnessed today: PS, PSD, PCP and Block make an agreement that goes beyond what was requested by the Constitutional Court, which goes beyond what has been agreed by everyone, now alter some rules, are caught and take a handful of ears. And whose fault is it? Of them? Don't! It is from whom he warned them, from whom he repeatedly warned them, from whom he refused to do, from whom he voted against and did well: the CDS! It's extraordinary! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u132	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the honourable Member said here that there are no offended virgins. Mr President, according to your statement, which I thought was regrettable, I must say that there may be no offending virgins, but surely there are repentant and even desperate virgins here. [[CDS-PP applause.]] What you have done was a shame, because if there is a party in this House — I did not want to use this argument, but I will have to do so, given your intervention — which has been voted on with regard to the financing of your accounts, and judicially voted on, was the CDS. And, sir, what happened? Sentence passed on trial! What happened to people? They've been acquitted! The employees have been acquitted! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u133	What about the facts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u134	This demonstrates everything about the respect the Left Block has for the democratic rule of law and its ability to understand the separation of powers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u135	The facts have been confirmed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u136	Calling names of people, some of whom aren't even among us, is a shame, and it's a shame that stays with you. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u137	But the mattresses were there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u138	Perhaps that is why it would be good for the Left Block to be equally scrutinized, as was the CDS, because, perhaps, it would be understood why some money and some fabulous campaigns the Block has made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u139	Mr Nuno Magalhães has already exceeded his time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u140	Mr President, to finish, listen again: the CDS voted against and will vote against, because this law is wrong, wrong, it has not been discussed, goes beyond what is asked,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u141	I would ask you to conclude, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u142	...respects the President of the Republic and ultimately offends the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u143	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate and on behalf of the Socialist Party, I would like to stress that the importance of this issue and the respect we should have for political parties mean, every day, deepening and credibility of democracy. The attack here today, by some benches, cannot be allowed to cross the bench of the Socialist Party, because what was done in this House this morning was an attack without a name for democracy and political parties that we do not accept. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we do not accept, Mr President, because, if there is any party that can say that it has a mark in the history of democracy, in its construction, in its deepening, in its improvement, every day, of its functioning, it is the Socialist Party, who does not accept the attack that has been made here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This attack, Mr. President and Mr. Members, it simply arises by demagogy, populism and irresponsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u145	And the CDS should be more careful about what it does, because democracy, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, is not all behind a party, is a majority consensus like what was found in this House for the law of the financing of political parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Respecting democracy is to realize that each bench has its differences but can converge essentially. And to converge essentially in this area is to clarify what is not clear to people today about the financing of parties. That's why, my dear fellows, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you that, of course, on the side of the Socialist Party's bench, our responsibility was to listen to the appeals of the Constitutional Court and clarify what was needed to be clarified in the law. And, therefore, we also do not accept that the law is made to measure or in such a pejorative and unserious way as mentioned here by the CDS bench, in the sense that the change to VAT alone means enlargement. No, it doesn't. So I want to appeal to the PSD right now : we are still in time to amend what will be proposed by the PSD. What you want is a step back, it is to restore the rule that was previously in force and that, yes, creates discretion, yes, it raises doubts to the Tax Authority, yes, it makes it difficult to live by political parties every day in terms of repayable or non-refundable VAT expenditure. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you that the PS has gone further and, with its responsibility and loyalty to the substance of the rules, what you have come to say is that it was available to clarify further. And to clarify further means that the exemption from VAT, the reimbursement of VAT exemption is the one that has existed in the party law 19 years ago, I repeat, 19 years ago, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen — we did not invent this in December! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u146	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u147	...and therefore we exclude from this rule all expenditure on election campaign, so that it is not considered a double reimbursement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u149	Mr. Members, it is important to speak clearly and seriously: I know that the PSD, despite the change of leadership in its bench, agrees with this rule. What is being asked here is a consensus, in the name of responsibility, of seriousness and against the discretion of the Entity of Accounts, which daily causes problems to political parties. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude this debate with a strong appeal to all sides. Those who have been misled to vote in December, those who march in favour of populism and radicalism, those who have stained the political parties here, the appeal I make is of responsibility, of strengthening democracy and transparency in the financing of the parties, because that is why we are also here, so that this Parliament is dignified and not embarrassed, out there, by social communication and by the population, because they do not understand what we are doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u150	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u151	Mr Carlos Peixoto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD, in conclusion, may say that it comes out of this debate with the feeling of duty accomplished, with the notion that it acted with great responsibility and with the sense of elevation and state that this matter requires. What the PSD does not want and what it will always oppose is a drafting of a law that will extend the grounds for exemption that currently exist for political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u153	But Mr Silvano has already said that it was not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u154	This is the question: any wording which does not guarantee that there is no extension of the exemption base and, to this extent, expenditure added to the State, under the right to reimbursement of parties, the PSD will vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u155	There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u156	This was the position taken by the PSD leader, either in his campaign or after he was elected, and the PSD leader, such as the PSD bench, fulfills his word and honours his commitments. This is what we want to demystify: that there is no idea, in public opinion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u157	But it's just the idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u158	... that political parties, including the PSD, in a hidden, discreet or non-discreet manner, want to extend and benefit from what they currently do not have. That's why, sirs. Members, the PSD did everything, tried to clarify the law with various wordings and it was not possible. If this clarification is not possible, we believe that it is preferable to maintain what it is, even with the risks inherent in this maintenance and some discretion of the Tax and Customs Authority, than to penalise taxpayers and citizens in favour of exemptions from political parties. This is a responsible attitude. So here's the last challenge, ladies and gentlemen. Members : if the VAT standard proposed by the PSD, and also by the CDS-PP, is approved, the PSD Parliamentary Group is perfectly available to withdraw the transitional standard which it has now introduced for the vote. I believe that it is the compromise between these two rules that will create a fair, balanced regime here that does not create the idea in the public opinion that parties are benefiting themselves, with advantages that have not existed before. This is our position. We leave here this challenge to the Socialist Party to follow it and, together, we can leave here with a law that, being not perfect, is, in spite of everything, better than that which will extend exemption bases than citizens usually do not have. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u159	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Lacão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am speaking in response to what Mr Peixoto has just said. Mr Peixoto said that the PSD would be available for a solution that would not entail aggravating tax expenditure on VAT exemption. Therefore, with regard to the proposal which I made to you, orally, in order to link the political action of the parties to their law of the parties, to which I quote: '(...) they compete for free formation and pluralism of expression of the people's will and for the organization of political power(...)' ; they contribute '(...) for plural clarification and for the exercise of the political freedoms and rights of the citizens(...)' ; 'to criticise, in particular the opposition, the activity of the State bodies(... ) ; to 'promoting the training and political preparation of citizens for direct and active participation in democratic public life; in general, to contribute to the promotion of fundamental rights and freedoms and the development of democratic institutions' ; 'to ask Mr Carlos Peixoto whether, by associating these legal purposes of the parties' are these, not others! — the norm which also states that there can be no interference by the public authorities in the lives of parties and that it also states that public entities are obliged to non-discriminatory treatment before all political parties, does it not believe that, in view of this, there is only no clarification of the VAT standard because the PSD is afraid?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u162	That's the point! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u163	Mr. Carlos Peixoto, you still have time, I don't know if you want to answer. [[Pause.]] You have the floor to answer, Mr. José Silvano.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u164	Mr President, Mr Jorge Lacão, I did not want to go this way because it is not necessary. So much work to create consensus cannot, nor should, be destroyed by topical issues, now, here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u166	...in an interpretation, in a clarification of a standard. What I meant is very simple, responding directly to the issue of Mr. Jorge Lacão. It is true that this interpretation of the standard which has just been cited by the House, and which has been transmitted to us, raises, in our well-founded opinion, serious doubts as to whether there is an increase in VAT exemptions. [[All right! It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u167	I'm telling you this with all the frontality. That is, the PSD understands, after considering the standard, that it allows at least public opinion to perceive, and with some well-founded reasons, that there will be an increase in VAT exemptions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u168	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u169	It does not matter whether or not they are justified and whether or not they are covered in this issue of political parties. I can even, kindly, understand that you can be right about political activity, which refers only to political activity. I agree perfectly, but there are more exemptions than there is. What our party leader said was that he didn't want any more exemptions and we have to comply with, there won't be any more exemptions. And the way to do this is to comply with the current Law and also challenge the Socialist Party to leave its proposal and vote on our amendment, leaving the current Law in force. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u170	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Jorge Lacão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u171	Mr President, Mr. José Silvano, with all serenity, then the purposes which the parties pursue are those which I have just read, not by my criterion, but by the criterion of the law. In view of these objectives, what the PS said to the PSD was that we would be available for a solution that said that the exemption from VAT on expenditure would be linked with the political activity of the parties, for the pursuit of their purposes, in accordance with the Law of the Political Parties. In the face of this, and that is not the only thing, is that, in view of what we Members are required to do — which is not to contribute to the confusion of public opinion, nor is it even to fear the confusion of public opinion, what is required of us, as Members, is to clarify what we deserve to be clarified before public opinion, and in view of this clarification, Mr Silvano, give me one example or, if you want, two or three, at a single expense which would be aggravated if the applicable standard were this, as I have just proposed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u172	To reply, Mr Silvano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u173	Mr President, Mr. Jorge Lacão, very quickly, even because time is short, I mean that I have already said that interpretation can be benevolent, but what you have not been able to say to me, and we do not want any doubts, is that there are no more VAT exemptions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u174	You asked me for an example, I give you two or three, which can be interpreted in this way: exploitation of a bar at the headquarters of a party,... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u175	It's not free, it's not political activity!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u176	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am continuing with the examples. Does a game of ladies or a football tournament organized by a party have an exemption or does it not have an exemption? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u177	You don't have, no! [[You don't have it, but I'd have it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u178	Mr Jorge Lacão, you have the floor again for an intervention. I would ask that this table tennis be a little faster.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Thank you very much, Mr. José Silvano! Thank you very much! The honourable Member has just demonstrated examples of activities that do not correspond to the aims of the political parties! [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, Mr. José Silvano, if anyone wants that kind of activity to stop being exempt is through the proposal we are making you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u180	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u181	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u182	In the light of a proposal which clarifys the examples which you have given, you want to continue living with these examples and not clarify the law before us and the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u183	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Very quickly and directly, even because it is a reply to Mr Nuno Magalhães, I wanted to say that Mr spoke loud and spoke much but he was unable to say that any of the statements I made was not true, because they appear in the report of the PJ (Judiciary Police), and that is exactly what I said. [[Protests from the members of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida and Telmo Correia.]] This is the great problem of CDS, it is reality and weight in consciousness. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u185	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The parties are not all the same and not the matter of funding either.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u187	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u188	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u189	The CFP believes that parties should not depend on the financing of the State, but should ensure the financial means for their activity, mainly depending on their militants, their supporters and the collection of means to do so. This is a position that divides us from most of the benches in this House of the Republic and has divided us over the years. We also understand that the financing of political parties must be transparent and that all supervisory mechanisms, even those which have not been used to control but, rather, to devour the lives of the parties, are not confused with this law. Perhaps this is a problem of law defect, because in these respects too something should have been corrected but it did not go that far. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the CFP, we are consistent in our positions. We are consistent in the positions we have assumed over the years to denounce the persecution and intrusive character in the lives of the parties that the financing law has continued to have since 2003. We are consistent in the position that we argue that parties should not, in their funding, depend on the State, on the proposals that we have put forward, in particular for the cut-off of 40 % of public subsidies, proposals in which we have not been accompanied by PSs, PSSs, CDSs and we are also consistent with the amendments that are being discussed today again. Even if we were not material authors of the proposals that were submitted, if we had agreed with them and signed them up for two months ago, we did not come today to the jacket or give the saying by no means, we maintained our position and our appreciation and that is the way we intervened. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The question that is raised is the result of the populist and reactionary campaign that was made on the basis of lies and forgery against political parties, with a truly fascinating nature. [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs Telmo Correia.]] The problem is to know who in this House of the Republic will yield to the blackmail of this populist and reactionary campaign. In particular with regard to two proposals, particularly the CDS and the NAP proposals, we wanted to make it clear that we cannot in any way follow the CDS and the NAP proposals because they cover this campaign of lies and forgeries.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u190	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u191	I conclude, Mr. President. We cannot follow these proposals because they actually cover this campaign of lies and falsifications, which has been developed with anti-democratic objectives, and these two parties have not retreated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u192	Finally, Mr President, and in particular on the position of the NAP, I wanted to conclude by saying this: the NAP had in hand for two months the bill that was discussed and said nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u193	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u194	You have had time assigned in the debate, in December, that you did not use and come here today to do a truly miserable exercise,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u195	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u196	...subscribing and providing coverage to this antidemocratic campaign, and that we do not accept. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u197	With no further inscriptions, we turn to item 2 of our agenda on motion for a resolution No 62/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention of the Council of Europe on Counterfeiting of Medicinal Products and similar Infringements involving Threats to Public Health, opened the signature in Moscow on 28 October 2011 without any time allocated for discussion. We also have point three concerning draft resolution No 1351 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 20 / 2004 of 16 February 2004 approving the structure and competence of the services of the Assembly of the Republic ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verde ), also without time allocated for discussion. We therefore enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. We shall begin by voting in the specialty on the various proposals relating to the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 177 / XIII.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u198	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u199	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u200	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u201	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u202	Mr President, there are several Members of the PSD, and I suppose also from other parliamentary boards, which have political work outside Parliament. They will come to the vote, hoping that it will be at noon. however, their anticipation...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u203	Mr President, I am very sorry but yesterday I warned, in due course, that the votes today would take place before noon and that all the benches should provide for the purpose of warning their members. Mr. Deputies, this has been notified and is at the end of yesterday's meeting. I'm sorry, but we have to go on. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 210 presences, to which are added the Member of the Left Block, João Vasconcelos, and the Member of the CDS-PP, Assumption Cristos, making 212 Members, so we have the quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting on the amendments tabled in relation to the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 177 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of the Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ), second amendment to Organic Law No 2 / 2003, of 22 August ( Law of the Political Parties ), seventh amendment to Law No 19 / 2003, of 20 June ( Law of the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ) and first amendment to Organic Law No 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Law of Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing ). First of all, we shall vote on the proposal tabled by the CDS-PP amending Article 6 ( 1 ). the Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, as set out in Article 3. that of the Decree.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u204	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u205	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u206	Mr President, I am sorry, but, looking at the script, we have been asked a question which has to do with the order of voting on the proposals. Since there are proposals for elimination, it seems to us that, in general terms, these...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u207	Mr Deputy, it was decided yesterday at the Bureau, and consensualized with the PSD and the CDS-PP, that the proposal called elimination only under the heading is different from the proposal for amendment also submitted by the CDS. from that point on, starting with the proposal for an amendment, because it was the first that came in.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u208	Mr President, but then the sequence does not correspond. There are elimination proposals which are not immediately following, amendments are followed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u209	Mr, it was seen here in the Bureau that what was right was to start with the first proposal you entered, which is that of the CDS. Therefore, we will not change what has been seen with the representatives of the PSD Bureau, the CDS and their parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u210	Mr. President, the PS bench was unaware and we were evaluating the script precisely in this perspective.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u211	Mr President, this was not a change of script, because it was only officially distributed after there is this order that is now established.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u212	Mr President, as it is a matter of regiment, we wanted to evaluate it. That is why it took only 2 minutes to examine the outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u213	Mr. Deputy, you have two minutes. This script was distributed yesterday with the first vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP. [[Pause.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP amending Article 6 ( 1 ). the Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, as set out in Article 3. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS, BE, PCP and The Greens were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and abstentions by the Members of PS Helena Roseta and Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] [[It was as follows: 1. Funding revenue may not exceed the value of the IAS by party on an annual basis and must be recorded in accordance with Article 12(7).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u214	Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u215	Mr President, it is to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u216	Be registered. We shall now vote on the proposal tabled by the NAP amending Article 6 ( 1 ). the Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, as set out in Article 3. that of the Decree. [[Get hurt!]] [[Get hurt!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u217	Mrs. Members, the Bureau does not judge what is or is not prejudiced by the vote. Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS, BE, PCP and The Greens were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and abstentions by the Members of PS Helena Roseta and Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] [[It was as follows: 1. Funding revenue may not exceed the value of the IAS by party on an annual basis and must be recorded in accordance with Article 12(7).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u218	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing to sit down because it causes some disturbance to the Bureau in the verification of the votes. We then voted on the proposal by the CDS-PP amending Article 10 ( 1 ( g ). the Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, as set out in Article 3. that of the Decree. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the PS, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions by the Members of the PS Helena Roseta and Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] [[(g) taxation on value added in the acquisition and transmission of goods and services aimed at disseminating their own political message or identity through any media, printed or audiovisual media, including those used as advertising material and means of communication and transport, with the exemption effective through the exercise of the right to return tax;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u219	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u220	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u221	Mr President, in this case, it is indeed unfortunate that the amendment tabled by the NAP is detrimental to this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u222	It is unavoidable because the CDS-PP proposal has been approved. Therefore, it is not worth slaughtering with hard physical exercises Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The proposal submitted by the NAP amending Article 10 ( 1 ( g ). the Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, as set out in Article 3. That of the Decree, it's damaged. [[(g) tax on value added in the acquisition and transmission of goods and services aimed at disseminating their own political message or identity through any media, printed or audiovisual media, including those used as advertising material and means of communication and transport, with the exemption effective through the exercise of the right to return tax;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u223	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to delete Article 10. or... [[She's hurt too!]] [[She's hurt too!]] [[She's hurt too!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u224	It is damaged by the previous vote. So be it, ladies. Members, the proposals submitted by the PSD, for the elimination of Article 10. the Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, as set out in Article 3. the PS decree amending Article 10 ( 1 ( ( g ). the, and by BE, amending the same standard, are also affected. [[(g) Tax on value added incurred in all acquisitions of goods and services for their activity, with the exception of acquisitions covered by the expenditure of election campaigns, with the exemption being made through the exercise of the right to return tax; (PS). (g) Tax on value added, being the exemption made through the exercise of the right to refund the tax, supported in all procurement and transmission of goods and services for the following purposes: (i) the dissemination of its political message or own identity, in particular through any media, printed or audiovisual media, including those used as advertising material and means of communication and transport; (ii) the construction, maintenance and preservation of buildings intended exclusively for its activity; (BE).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u225	We now vote on the proposal tabled by the CDS-PP amending Article 7. that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, BE, PCP and The Greens and votes in favour of the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] [[It was as follows: This law applies to new procedures and procedures for the monitoring of the annual accounts of political parties that are dependent on the date of their entry into force pending trial, without prejudice to the validity of the acts carried out under the previous law.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u226	Proposals submitted by the NAP and the PSD to amend Article 7 shall be adversely affected. that of the Decree. [[These were the following: This law applies to new procedures and procedures for the monitoring of the annual accounts of political parties pending the date of their entry into force, without prejudice to the validity of the acts carried out under the previous law. (PAN) This law shall apply to new proceedings and proceedings pending in the Constitutional Court at the date of its entry into force pending trial, without prejudice to the validity of the acts carried out under the previous law. (PSD).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u227	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on the new Decree by means of an electronic vote. I remember that this is the vote on a new Decree, with amendments introduced, after the speciality vote. I would ask the services to prepare the terminals for this vote. I will ask who votes against, who abstains and who votes in favour and, at the same time, the honourable Members. Members rise and load in their buttons, red, white or green. Is there a problem with a monitor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u228	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u229	So, Mr President, I ask you to stand a little longer. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[When put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of members in effective office, with 192 votes in favour (PSD, PS, BE, PCP and Os Verdes), 18 against (CDS-PP and PAN) and 3 abstentions (PS).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u230	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u231	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u232	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the proposals which have been adopted and on those which have been damaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u233	Be registered. Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u234	Mr President, it is to inform the House that on my behalf by Mr Miguel Morgado, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes and Mr Simão Ribeiro, I will give a statement of vote not only on the overall final vote but also on the vote in the speciality of Article 6. o, with regard to the limit rule on fund raising.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u235	Be registered. Mr. José Silvano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u236	Mr President, it is to inform that Mr José de Matos Rosa and I will present a statement of vote on all these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u237	Be registered. Mrs. Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u238	Mr President, it is for the same purpose: I will present a statement of vote on the final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u239	Be registered. Mr André Pinotes Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u240	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote, not by any kind of reservation, but because these are strange times when we have to defend the politics of politicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u241	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u242	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u243	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u244	Mr President, I shall, on my behalf and Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, present a statement of vote on the last votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u245	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now turn the Bureau's direction to Vice-President José de Matos Correia, whom I thank for my replacement. Everyone, until the week. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u246	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we then turn to the votes referred to in the script, beginning with voting No 488 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Miguel Roquette, presented by the CDS-PP and subscribed by a PSD member, who will be read by Mr. Secretary of the António Carlos Monteiro Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last February 19th died the Eng.o Miguel Rocha Ferreira Roquette, at 61 years of age. Miguel Roquette was a senator and national CDS leader for decades, who also performed functions at the district and local level in Setúbal. He has performed various positions in the Public Administration, always linked to the area of the environment, that he has always been a defender. Having chosen to live in Coruche for the last 15 years and, in particular, dedicated to Fajarda, it was a reference of conviction, dedication and commitment to the causes it has embraced, always excited by a sense of humor and simplicity that leaves a longing in everyone who knows it. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express to Miguel Roquette's family and friends the greatest sense of regret over his disappearance."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u248	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 489/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Alexandre Azevedo Monteiro, presented by the PSD and subscribed by a PS member, who will be read by the Secretary of the Idália Salvador Serrão Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last February 14th, at 76 years of age, Alexandre Azevedo Monteiro, history leader of the TSDs — Social Democrats workers, who held paragraph 25 and was its district president in the Guard for 24 years. At the time of his death he was still a member of the Bureau of Congress and the National Council of TSDs. He has been hospitalized since mid-January at Sousa Martins Hospital, in the highest city in Portugal and has not resisted the disease. Alexandre Monteiro took the Industrial Technical Course at the Industrial and Commercial School of Guarda and had his first « serious work» at the former factory of the Lusitanas Industries Renault, in the city of Guarda, where he performed functions in several sectors, from production, quality control, methods and time to the central production service. Its passage through that industrial unit referred to it as being “a pride of having served the factory that was the ‘ girl of our eyes. ’ ” In 1987 he was elected to the Assembly of the Republic by the electoral circle of the Guard, on the PSD lists, where he served a mandate. In addition to its undisturbed role linked to the TSDs — Social Democrats workers in the Guard, he was also, in partisan terms, a member of the Political Committee of the Guard Section, the District Standing Committee of the Guard and a Member of the Municipal Assembly of that city. Equally in the union movement and civic associations was an example in terms of their coherence, commitment and courage. In 2013 Alexandre Monteiro, who suffered from parkinson, published the book Memoirs of a Member of the Province in the Assembly of the Republic, about the period he was in Parliament, the foundation of the Renault factory where he worked, the early times after 25 April in the Guard and other aspects about the history and events that marked that city in recent decades. A good, supportive, and friendly man broke up. His disappearance is a great loss to social democracy, the trade union movement, the local power and all his many friends who worked or lived with him. A simple and humble man, but of a great character and defender of values and principles, was respected by all those with whom he deprived. To the family, to the numerous friends and colleagues of the TSDs and PSDs the Assembly of the Republic expresses its condolences».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u250	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 490 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Carlos Silva and Sousa, presented by the PSD and subscribed by PS Members, who will be read by Mr. Secretary of the Duarte Pacheco Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last February 23, at the age of 60, Carlos Silva and Sousa, President of the City Hall of Albufeira, personality whose sudden and unexpected disappearance was accompanied by a deep and sorry. Carlos Silva and Sousa was a man of unwavering democratic convictions and their commitment to citizenship and public service constituted, throughout their lives, particularly impressive marks. Degree in law—a lawyer of profession—, also a farmer and recognized wine grower, became a member of the PSD at the height of democracy, having been, as always proudly reported, the first president of the JSD of the Queen's Horses. Its unlimited availability for public service has been evidenced in positions to which it has always been devoted with a clear sense of responsibility: Member of the 12th Parliament, President of the Municipal Assembly of Albufeira, Vice President of the Albufeira PSD and Vice-President of the Algarve PSD. It was also Consul of Lithuania and Vice-Consul of São Tomé and Príncipe and one of the pioneers of the production of quality wines in the Algarve, which was rightly considered, in an area that has increasingly been revealed to be of greatest importance to the region. The last task that has been for him since 2013 was that of the presidency of the House of Albufeira, the land of his passion, to which he devoted himself without effort, with high competence and permanent sense of public service. It will be difficult to forget, for example, the stoic way of leading your community to the cataclysm that was the fillings that devastated Albufeira in 2015: in those hours of despair, facing adversity, a more united, more supportive community was forged, marked by the inter-help and cohesiveness in the accident. Carlos Silva and Sousa was a good man, and of his generosity and humanity we are, in the Assembly of the Republic, privileged witnesses. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express their deepest sympathy to the family and to the Albanians for their disappearance."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u252	Let's move on to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we still have a final vote, vote No 491 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of João Varela Gomes, presented by BE, the PCP and the Greens, and subscribed by PS and PSD Members, who will be read by Mr. Secretary of Table Moses Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « João Varela Gomes was born in 1924. He was always an insubmissive man, an incessant fighter, whom they sometimes called ‘ the first Captain of April. ’ Before 1974, it was a constant presence in the fight against dictatorship. So it was in the presidential candidacy of Humberto Delgado of 1958, so it was in the 1959 Conspiracy of the Senate, so it was in the opposition lists of 1961 and so it was on the first day of 1962, in the take of the Quarter of Beja, with Manuel Serra. Gravely wounded in this revolutionary action—but always unbreakable in its tenacity—, João Varela Gomes was arrested by PIDE for six years in Aljube and Peniche and expelled from the Army. When the Court of the Whole judged him, he made a courageous speech there against the dictatorship, which had repercussions in the country and abroad, and of which it is remembered, in particular, the famous phrase: ‘ Let others triumph where we have been defeated. ’ Neither his prison, nor his wife's, Maria Eugénia, in Caxias, nor that of three of his children, in 1973, caused him to fade. After 25 April he was reinstated with the colonel post. He led the cultural dynamization campaigns with which the revolutionary military wanted to involve the most deprived sectors of the population, in addition to fighting illiteracy. Together with a contingent of workers from Sorefame, he removed the name of Salazar from the bridge over the Roof and renamed it as Ponte 25 April. Varela Gomes went underground after 25 November 1975 to escape the arrest warrant issued against him and left the country, being expelled from the Armed Forces. He only returned to Lisbon in September 1979, under the recently approved Amnesty Law by Parliament. In 1982, the Supreme Administrative Court decided to reinstate it as a colonel but reformed. Its definition of the April Revolution summarizes its profound convictions: ‘fight for a better future for the disadvantaged by birth or social condition’. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of João Varela Gomes and expresses condolences to his family."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u254	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions by the Members of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa, Assunção Cristas, Filipe Anacoreta Correia and Telmo Correia.]] In view of the presence in this Chamber of representatives of the families of Miguel Roquette, Alexandre Azevedo Monteiro and João Varela Gomes, as well as the president and the councillors of the Municipality of Albufeira, I wanted to convey with a loud voice, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, our deep regret for the disappearance of these four people, for which we now approve these vows of regret. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall resume the vote. He made a request to the Bureau by the CDS-PP, requesting the Commission to be discharged, without voting for a period of 90 days on the following legislative initiatives : drafts of lein.o 783/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), 784 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), 785 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), 786 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), 787 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and 788 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and draft resolutions 885 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 1291 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), 1355 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), 1356 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), 1357 / XIII ( 3. ) e 1362 / XIII ( 3. ( a). The CDS-PP Parliamentary Group requested two minutes to submit this request. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't take even the two minutes. Yesterday, during the debate, it was found that these 12 projects merited, in part, some agreement from the various banks, on the other hand, doubts and, on the other hand, criticisms, one of which was that it was the only diploma presented so far. So the CDS presented first; and with this, the CDS obviously wanted to mark and mark this discussion but it does not intend to have the final solution of any of these matters; and other parliamentary groups announced and said that they would also present other proposals, of course, after we considered, the conclusion to which we arrived was that it would be in the interest of the Assembly of the Republic and of our interest that these proposals were in the field of expertise when other parliamentary groups presented their proposals. We therefore demand — and the explanation is given — that the Commission should be discharged without a vote of all our projects from our « package of justice », so let us say in particular of the projects of lein.o 783-788 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and draft resolutions 885 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 1291 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), 1355 to 1357 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 1362 / XIII ( 3. ( a) awaiting the proposals of the other parliamentary groups so that we can then contribute, in what is consensual, to this fundamental reform of justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-02.u256	Mrs. Members, let us then vote on the request, submitted by the CDS-PP, from low to low. the Commission shall, without a vote for a period of 90 days, of drafts of lein.o 783/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June ( CDS-PP ), 784 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 78 / 2001 of 13 July ( Judgments of Peace - Competition, Organization and Operation ) ( CDS-PP ), 785 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System ) ( CDS-PP ), 786 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2011 of 20 January approving the Legal Regime of Arbitration in Tax Matters ( CDS-PP ), 787 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Forty-fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 398 / 98 of 17 December approving the General Tax Law, and thirty-second amendment to Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October approving the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure ( CDS-PP ), and 788 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Tenth amendment to Law No 13 / 2002 of 19 February approving the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals — the creation of extraordinary teams of administrative and tax judges ( CDS-PP ) and draft resolutions No 885 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government approve the legal diploma defining the cases, forms and terms in which administrative acts may be duly imposed by the Administration, in accordance with the provisions of Decree-Law No 4 / 2015 of 7 January, which approved the Code of Administrative Procedure ( CDS-PP ), 1291 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit the report on the multi-annual strategy for requalification and modernization of the prison system in September 2017 in plenary of the Assembly and submit a proposal for an investment programming law in the prison park ( CDS-PP ), 1355 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement Article 182. the Code of Procedure in Administrative Tribunals in matters of administrative arbitration ( CDS-PP ), 1356 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reassess and revise the Action Plan + Next, taking into account the measures proposed in the Agreements for the Justice System document of January 2018 ( CDS-PP ), 1357 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a working group with the aim of studying the revision of the General System of Contraordinations contained in Decree-Law No 433 / 82 of 27 October ( CDS-PP ) and 1362 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government set up a commission to review criminal legislation, in particular the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, to study and implement a compliance control system to define the criminal liability of legal persons ( CDS-PP ). I inform you that the projects of lein.o 786 to 788 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) also fall to 5. the Commission. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Thus, all of these 12 initiatives fall to 1. the Commission, and I repeat the drafts of lein. 786 to 788 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) do so with connection to 5. the Commission. We shall now proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 62 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Council of Europe Convention on Counterfeiting of Medicinal Products and Similar Infringements involving Threats to Public Health, opened for signature in Moscow on 28 October 2011. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1351 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 20 / 2004 of 16 February approving the structure and competence of the services of the Assembly of the Republic ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verde ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on the replacement text submitted by The Greens, the PSD and the NAP on draft resolutions Nos 1019 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Combating trafficking in human beings ( The Greens ), 1292 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government urgently develop and implement a new national plan to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings ( PSD ) and 1333 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the early elaboration and implementation of a new national plan to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings ( NAP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 960 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take quick and urgent measures to decontaminate the mining houses of the Urgeirice(BE). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1033 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Rapid decontamination of the dwellings of the mines of the Urgeirice and ensuring environmental recovery and preservation of the mining heritage (The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] At the end of the vote, and with this our work today, I inform the House that the next plenary session will take place on Wednesday 7, beginning at 15 p.m., of which the appeal to the Government No 18 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — On delays in the implementation of PREVPAP — Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Trial Links in Public Administration ( BE ). I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 26 minutes.]]
