ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public, please. Mrs. Members, today's debate is based on the general joint assessment of the projects of lein. 418 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates access to assisted drug death ( NAP ), 773 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines and regulates the conditions under which the anticipation of death, by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and who is in lasting and unbearable suffering, is not punishable ( BE), 832 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Proceeds to 47. the amendment to the Penal Code and regulates the special conditions for the practice of non-punishable euthanasia ( PS ) and 838 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines the regime and conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable (The Greens), diplomas to be voted on at the end of the debate. To present the NAP initiative, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's plenary session is the culmination of a debate that has lasted for more than two years, which has been intense and very involved by all the political, scientific and professional sectors of our country. A broad discussion was launched by the civic movement Right to Die with Dignity, to whom we welcome the mobilization of Portuguese society to consecrate in the law the decriminalization of assisted death. The word of recognition that we address this movement is due to the quality, seriousness and elevation of the discussion made. Now is the time for Members to assume their responsibilities. Anyone who defends today that the discussion continues to do is only hiding its true goal, which is to prevent it from being punished with imprisonment the act of helping to die a terminal patient involved in the greatest suffering. Preventing voluntary anticipation of death on request in very special contexts is preventing an act of altruism. To be against the decriminalization of euthanasia is to continue to defend that an act of kindness is considered criminal and punishable by imprisonment. If we view the extension of our lives as normal and natural, since science thus allows, why do we not view it as equally normal and natural that we ask ourselves under what conditions we agree to prolong our lives or not? The debate on assisted death is also a debate about the human rights of those at the end of the line, about the process of the last stage of our life, in which we have the right to decide, i.e. whether it will be with agony, atrocious and intolerable suffering or, on the contrary, whether it will be dignified, respectful and free. To define intolerable suffering is not difficult and it is not true that all suffering is treatable, as those who insist that palliative care are the only solution and the answer for all cases. Suffering is a personal and intransmissible experience. Much more than a physical or psychological symptom, indispensable suffering is an addiction, an indignity, a lack of being, a lack of sense, and it is agonizing to suffer because you suffer, to suffer because if you are forced to suffer, to suffer because you know that after suffering there will only be suffering. Suffering is multifactorial, with physical, mental and emotional components, which, when associated with fatal or definitive and incurable disease or injury, is recognized by health professionals and family members. Legalization and the application for assisted death in the context of disease thus provides for a set of rigorous clinical criteria that are inseparable to respect. And because we live in a democratic society and in a rule of law, the patient cannot want his request to be accepted without criterion and society cannot accept without reservation all requests. The request for assisted death can only be made by an informed and informed adult about their situation, free from any coercion and capable of realizing that other alternatives exist, or not, to due their disease or injury, as well as the answers available to minimize this suffering. The decision of the insufferability of suffering will always be of the person himself, if this decision obviously corresponds to a true free, conscious, informed and repeated will in the face of a situation clinically recognized as irreversible and whose advanced state of development foresees death as a close outcome in time. in a rule of law each of us should be allowed, both in the most common aspects and in the most intimate areas of human existence, the power to conform our lives according to our own convictions. A life that lives on its entire includes its entire end. To prevent one from having a word to say about how not to want life to end is a restriction of the full right to life. At present, this is exactly what happens: patients are prevented from deciding and see their autonomy conditioned by legal restrictions. The state imposes on us all a single, paternalist and authoritarian globalization of some. A pluralized and evolved society respects the primacy of freedom, autonomy and self-determination throughout life and until the last moment, especially at the last moment, when, according to the grid of values and convictions of each one, this life is empty of any meaning and considered an indignity. To fail us autonomy at the time of the end of life is to betray us the whole life. This self-determination in nothing is incompatible with the Constitution. Our Constitution determines that human life is inviolable, but it also incorporates, at the same time, in the list of fundamental rights, the free development of personality as the right to make the plan of life desired, as well as the freedoms of consciousness and thought and the dignity of the human person. We know that the decision on assisted death is final, with irreversible and fatal effects. Yes, we know that it poses risks and can promote abuse. Therefore, the proposals under discussion are based on greater rigour and ensure the formality and safety of the processes through a huge scrutiny and regulation. But the complexity of a matter cannot dissuade the Members from their responsibility to decide and legislate. Fear, blackmail and populist catastrophe cannot prevent us from moving forward in the field of the consecration of rights, extending freedoms and safeguarding the most vulnerable. It is inhumane not to decriminalize assisted death, it is even to continue to shoot into situations of underground sick suffering and with uncertain results that certainly do not serve their interests or those of their relatives. Not to decriminalize euthanasia is to accept dogmatically that they tell us how to live and die, it is blindly to those who decide for us and it is to validate a society sedated and in coma, made of morals and good customs. We defend a plural, open and evolved society, where we can all exercise, self-determined and free, our rights and live according to our convictions and worldviews. Decriminalizing assisted drug death is defending a fundamental human right that is to be fulfilled, recognizing the last individual freedom and being able to be helped at the most difficult time in your life. What we are going to vote here today is the decriminalization of freedom. I repeat: what we will decide at the end of the afternoon is whether we want a pure kindness act to continue or not to be a punishable crime with imprisonment. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u3	Mr André Silva, for clarification, Mrs Rubina Berardo of the PSD, and Mr Bacelar of Vasconcelos of the PS, wrote to ask for clarification. You then have the floor to Mrs Rubina Berardo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u4	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I welcome you in introducing your bill. Democracy is this: the presentation of what is committed to the electorate. The NAP considers, as can be read in the explanatory statement of its bill, that this is the will of the majority of society. I ask, then, the following: if you think so, why did you not clearly mention it in your 2015 electoral manifesto? It is true that it was the only party in this Chamber that referred to the word'euthanasia' in its electoral manifesto, but it is appropriate to say what was written there when it went to vote. The NAP, in measure77 of its manifesto, aims to create « discussion forums and open the debate on the legalization of euthanasia in Portugal ». Mr President, we agree that euthanasia, the question of the end of life and the role of the State in this situation of our citizens are being discussed. However, what is clear is that neither the NAP nor any of the parties has clearly proposed this clear measure to the electorate to legislate on euthanasia, as proposed today in Parliament. In fact, it was the PAN itself that self-limited its proposal when it went to vote. Does Mr André Silva consider that the discussion forums that the NAP eventually met, as proposed in his electoral manifesto, led to a genuine clarification of the Portuguese population, a full clarification of the legal reality and the protection of the patient and his rights in Portugal? When we attend a public debate that still threatens to confuse opposition to euthanasia with the defense of dysthanasia, it is completely censorable. Do the Portuguese know that there is the law of the vital will, which already allows the patients to say where they want to go and how far doctors can go in the fight against the disease? Mr André Silva, please put your hand in your heart and answer the question. Is the Portuguese society really clear about what we are at a short time to legislate? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u5	For the second request for clarification, Mr Bacelar de Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Silva, euthanasia is a crime and, whatever the result of the vote we are going to hold this afternoon and the final vote that will take place, it will continue to be a crime planned and punished by our Criminal Code. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u7	I would like to commend the courage and generosity of the authors of these proposed amendments to the Criminal Code. They all aim to exempt from the criminalization of euthanasia a peculiar situation, the exquisitely cruel and impious case in which one finds himself suffering from a disease without a remedy, from a human being who faces an intolerable suffering and, despite perfectly lucid and conscious, is, however, unable to resort to solidarity and to the understanding of others to free himself from the tragedy that lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u9	I am, with great honor, a subscriber to the project presented by the Socialist Members. Anyone who has worked to read the four proposals we have on the table will, in good faith, recognize that none of them will take care of using the law to impose an option of conscience, promote a doctrine, a certain religious belief or any ideology. We do not want the State to replace anyone's conscience, we do not want to transfer to the public authority the responsibility that falls on each one of us for our own destiny and for the meaning that we give to our own life. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] I note, especially with happiness, that, of all the accusations that have been brought to us, there is one that so far no one has dared to address us. So far, no one has accused us of electoralism. Let each one of you draw the conclusions you want and vote in conscience. He said Fernando Pessoa, by the hand of his heteronimo Alberto Careiro, that the only authentic sense of things is to have no sense at all. I add, in line with the poet, that the only sense of human life is that which, each of us, in conscience, would like to attribute to him. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u10	To reply, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u11	Mr President, Mrs Rubina Berardo and Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, in 2015, the NAP felt the need to include in its electoral programme the social response, the response that an evolved, pluralist and progressive society feels it has to give, in very specific circumstances, to people who are in in indispensible suffering, not questionable and that this response cannot only go through palliative care that does not solve all cases. We must also remove these people from hiding and we cannot turn, as is the case at this time, an act of pure kindness into a criminal act punishable by imprisonment. That is why we have entered into our electoral programme the opening of forums, debates, and I am completing it - not alone, of course, but with the help and, in essence, catapulted by the movement here we refer to, of more parties and the result is there: in recent months, society has not spoken of anything else, it does not speak of the need for these answers, of the decriminalization of euthanasia, of the drug-assisted death.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u12	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u13	And it is clearly the general feeling of the Portuguese that we need to have a different answer, an answer that not only passes through sedation and that does not go through the criminalization of acts of kindness and altruism. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u14	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I come to this rostrum today to say that the struggle of Laura Ferreira dos Santos and João Ribeiro Santos has not been in vain and that we honor ourselves by following it also in the House of the democratic representation of the people. I come to this rostrum today to say that the commitment of brave, serious, humanist people, like John Semedo, was worth it and that it was thanks to men and women as soon as the country opened itself to the consideration that rights cannot stop at the threshold of death. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what each and every one of us today has to decide is whether you let yourself lose out of fear or take responsibility for adopting a law that, in a balanced, reasonable and prudent manner, respects each person's decision. What each and every one of us today has to decide is whether to choose the prepotency to impose on all a life-end model, which is an unbearable violence for many, or the tolerance not to force, whoever it is, and to help anticipate death for those who continue life in agony becomes torture. What we will do today, each and every one of us, is therefore a choice about the freedom of all. What each and every one of us today has to decide is whether to accept that those who are rich can go to Switzerland to fulfill their will to anticipate death or conditions are given to all, rich and poor, so that that will be respected here, with their family and friends. What we will do today is also, each and every one of us, a choice about equality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u16	The debate on the decriminalization of assisted death, on the dignity of each choice and on the freedom of each person, is not from now on, comes by far and has been particularly intense and involved in recent years. We know today, as the country knows, that we will take this decision after more than two years of what Mr. President of the Republic has classified as, and I quote, "a much-engaged debate by all political-party, religious and social quadrants. Do not keep on seeking. ” Associations, religious communities, authorities, social media bodies and political parties took on this issue as of great social importance and organized debates throughout the country. For more than two years, I myself have been going through the country, doing and intervening in debates on this matter and, therefore, I also know that we are in a position today to make serene, rigorous choices, without any dramatization and with all the courage. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the time to legislate. What each of us will vote at the end of this debate are projects that converge essentially, which have very precise content and not invented scenarios that do not fit that content. The content of the Left Block project is very clear and I summarize it, citing it in five fundamental points: first, it defines and regulates the conditions in which the anticipation of death by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and in enduring and unbearable suffering, when practiced or assisted by health professionals, is not punishable, which means that whenever these conditions do not verify we will be in the face of a crime. Second, the request for the anticipation of death may only give rise to a clinical procedure if it is made by an older person who is able to understand the meaning and extent of the request, which means that the requests of minors or mental patients are not acceptable. Third, the verification of the existence of definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and of lasting and unbearable suffering is attested by two doctors, who have the obligation to provide the patient with all information and clarification on the clinical situation affecting him, the applicable, viable and available treatments, particularly in the area of palliative care, and the respective prognosis and ensure that the patient's decision is free and does not result from any interference or external and illegitimate coercion. Four, the opinion of a specialist in Psychiatry is required whenever one of the two doctors has doubts about the ability of the person to request the anticipation of death, and the procedure is cancelled and given for closure if such doubt is confirmed. Fifth, and finally, the decision to take the death anticipation procedure to the end is solely from the patient and is revocable at all times. This is what each and every one of us will vote from here to time. Everything more than the fear of some and the prejudice of others has brought to the debate cannot condition our free and serene decision. As has happened in so many other moments of enlargement of rights, there are those who want us now to deviate from a reasoned decision, threatening the risk of a social disparity, translated into other laws which, we are told, must come. But what these fear arautos and those farmers of distrust do not say is that the projects that we vote today qualify as a crime all the scenarios of deviation that they themselves, and only them, anticipate; what they do not say is that the control mechanisms that the project of the Left Block and the other consecrated projects have in mind, precisely, to prevent any possibility of legitimizing the anticipation of death for situations different from those that the law will receive. In other words, it is not about these proposals that pronounce these arrears of fear, they pronounce themselves on others who guess they will come. It seems to them that those who guess that they will come will be perverse and want to tie us to their guess and make their guess the foundation of a criminal strategy. It is up to each and every one of us to choose between the fear of a glimpse and the responsibility of freedom. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Those who, in the name of an atavic fear of each one's freedom of decision, want us to become prisoners of a biological life that mirrors our biographical life, are often the same ones who criticize the project of the Left Block and the other projects because, supposedly, they do not respect people's autonomy and give too much power to doctors. This strange and terrible irony of those who, in order to maintain the imperative of their particular vision of the end of life in the Criminal Code, both rejects the acceptance of the autonomy of the decision and rejects the regulation of the expression of that autonomy. For our part, what we propose, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a balanced and responsible solution: that respect the possibility of anticipating the death of those to whom the disease and suffering are deprived of the dignity they have always demanded and that the conditions under which this possibility may take place are strictly and with all guarantees of control.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u18	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the time to give precedence to freedom over fear. This is the time to give prevalence to tolerance over prepotence. We made such choices in the past and those who then wanted to frighten the country with the shadow of supposed civilizational retrocessions we respond with the practical demonstration that they were not backward but, yes, advances, and those who wanted to stop us with the announcement of ramps of indignity we always respond with the demonstration that the ramp of affirmation of rights and dignity is always ascending. This is the challenge that each of us today faces. We can give him the best answer. And that can only be about everyone's respect, in tolerance about each one's choice. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u19	Mr President, to ask for clarification, the honourable Members have written down. Mr Rubina Berardo and Mr Alexandre Quintanilla. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u20	Finally, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u21	You then have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Rubina Berardo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u22	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Pureza, I would like to welcome you for your speech. The honourable Member has spoken about tolerance and respect and it is with these feelings that I ask you some questions about your bill. Mr. Deputies, no one, but no one in this Chamber is indifferent to the suffering of a human being. No one in this Chamber denies that there is extreme suffering. Humanism is no one's monopoly, on the contrary. Let it be clear that minimizing suffering is the goal of all of us. But we cannot leave this debate without an essential and thorough clarification from the honourable Members. proposers of euthanasia. As you know, Mr President, pain, despite its complexity, is something physical, it is measurable, there are scientific scales to measure the intensity of pain, according to the patient. So, honourable Member, please explain to the Portuguese, how do the legislators intend to measure the suffering of others? Is suffering a clinical concept, sir? Who determines how much suffering is bearable? The patient or the doctors? And is this suffering physical or is it psychological? Let us see the indeterminate concepts that arise in draft laws: the PS speaks in « extreme suffering», the Left Block speaks « in lasting and unbearable suffering», The Greens speak « in deep suffering» and the NAP speaks in « suffering not attenuated to bearable levels and accepted by themselves ». Mr President, if we do not worry about the scope of a law, with its direct and indirect implications, we are resigning ourselves from our most essential responsibility. Mrs. Members, these indeterminate and inaccurate concepts, because they are not objectives, make it very difficult to understand exactly the true scope of these bills. A second question concerns the concept of freedom that applies in your argument. Attention: We appreciate the principle of freedom, however, the mechanisms presented in these bills supposedly advocate the triumph of freedom over disability, but we have a deep doubt, Mr President. I am not talking about any doubt whether anyone is really free in a situation of despair, but if, in fact, there was a right to decide about death, then why are you ladies. Would Members submit this right to the opinion of third parties, the final opinion? The final decision would never be of the sick but, yes, of the evaluation committee and there is a clear contradiction here, in this fallacy of freedom. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u23	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all agree that we should take care to the end, only that we think about the end in different ways. Knowledge advances in natural, social and human sciences have not been limited to giving us more years of life, it has also given us the capacity of physical, emotional and rational enjoyment but unfortunately these additional years of life are not always accompanied by the desired quality. What happens when someone has a clear conscience that the loss of self-esteem, dignity and independence, in addition to the physical and psychological suffering that awaits him, will be accentuated in the weeks or months of life that he can still enjoy? If, for some, the obvious answer is palliative care, for others the desire and the possibility of rapidly ending this situation is also very clear. Democracy allows different ways of looking at and valuing life, looking at and valuing compassion, respect, autonomy. It is not one way against another, but one as valid as the other and our life experience also helps us to analyze. For many, in which I include myself, the idea that the additional amount of life does not compensate for the quality of life lost is perfectly consistent. And I suspect that the richer someone's quality of life has been, the less willing he will be to value additional weeks or months of life. in this context, the dialogue between those who consider human life as a gift and those who, on the contrary, look to human life as a process of construction and social and individual consolidation is not easy, but it is not impossible. Some question the concept of therapeutic obstination, while others question the notion of autonomy prepotence. The balance between these concepts is not automatic. Currently, several voices are invoicing the idea that assisted death would be a gross way of saving money to the state. I consider this idea even more insulting...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u26	... than the other, which is also invoked by some, that the business of the end of life is very lucrative. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Other voices speak of the sliding ramp. In the recent past, in Portugal, this same argument was used, and abused, in the debate of the strategy for drug addiction and voluntary interruption of pregnancy. The forecasts not only did not come true as all recent evidence shows exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u28	For all these reasons and so many others, which are well known, I think that assisted death must be regulated, and that the process is as demanding and rigorous as possible, to avoid as much as possible what happens today, often without any supervision. Finally, I would like to say that health professionals are divided on this subject. Good! It just shows that ethics is not monolytic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u30	It would be inconceivable to think that some are more truly possessors than others and, fortunately, no one ever takes advantage of the right to define what true compassion is. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u31	To reply, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rubina Berardo, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, I sincerely thank you for the questions you have raised. If I may, I would like to begin with the question put by Mr Alexandre Quintanilla. In fact, in this matter, as in others, there is an argument that is the argument of fear. It's the argument that anticipates disasters that will come. It's always been like this. This was also the case this time and, we are used to it, who stands against this advance of rights that we are discussing here will always say that there is a disaster. It is unfortunate that those who do so do not look at the catastrophe that exists, the catastrophe of people who die with an indescriptible suffering, people who die in disrespect for themselves. Pain is not enough, it is disrespect for its own dignity, which only each one can fix for himself, which is at stake. So that is the disaster we now have to respond to. It is about this catastrophe that each and every one of us will have to decide from here at some point.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u34	But I would also like to respond to Mrs Rubina Berardo and thank you for the way you put the matter. In fact, what the honourable Member has come to put was perfectly legitimate doubts about how to measure pain, how to measure suffering. I am therefore in anticipation of the fact that the honourable Member's doubts will certainly be the contribution the PSD will make to work in the field of a law which will be approved. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] It is clear that this is an excellent contribution, but let me tell you, honourable Member, with all the honesty, that what is really at stake is the suffering of each and every one of them and that is decisive. That is absolutely decisive! But we have to trust — I believe that the honourable Member is doing so too — in the capacity of doctors and health professionals to assess the verification of the requirements of the law that we are proposing here and to want it to be voted on. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not a matter of transferring the decision to third parties. Don't! The decision is always and only of the person who is in a situation of incurable, fatal illness and with indisputable suffering. to doctors it is necessary to guarantee society that this disease and this suffering are exactly those that are provided for in the law as a condition of exceptional decriminalization of the figure of the crime that is foreseen, and that will be maintained, in the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u36	Finally, on a final note. Taking advantage of this opportunity that Mrs. Rubina Berardo gives me, I wanted to leave here a word of great trust to those and to those who at the PSD bench will know today how to interpret the liberal matrix and the humanist matrix that helped to establish their party. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PAN.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u37	Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Living is a right and protecting life is a duty of the state, no one contests it. But we cannot ignore the people for whom the diagnosis is irreversible and who are in extreme suffering, surviving a meaningless life. It is not a question of instrumentalizing life, but rather of allowing the self-defining of the concrete life of a person placed in an exceptional, intransmissible situation, whose meaning, in terms of personal existence, can only be defined by it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the bill submitted by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which comes from 47. the amendment to the Penal Code, regulates special conditions — special conditions! — for the practice of non-punishable euthanasia. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic defines life as an inviolable right, but not an irrevocable duty. Legislation on the conditions under which euthanasia is not punishable is to comply with the request to anticipate death by decision of the sufferer himself, in a situation of extreme suffering, with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease, when, obviously, practiced or assisted by health professionals. The patient's conscious, free and informed will is sovereign, the decision is yours. We have presented an unequivocal proposal that responds to legitimate and understandable reservations about the respect for the patient's will, free, serious and clarified and, therefore, we guarantee that it is only — and I repeat only — that a present and repeated will can be met. We are aware of the importance of this requirement. We do not admit that this will may be different when the patient no longer has psychic faculties or full consciousness of the act. Removing all responsibilities to a sick person is to consider the least person, it is to disrespect her in her autonomy, yes, to take away all the dignity that we want to defend here. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] The request will have to go through a legal clinical process, where the will of the older person is validated in several stages. These phases are passed by a medical guide, a specialist doctor, possibly a psychiatrist, and by the opinion of a council with relevant representation on the subject. We are concerned about the transparency of the clinical process, the monitoring by the General Inspection of Health Activities, until the implementation of the decision, and the recommendations of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, in particular on disability. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue, which we are discussing today in plenary session, is complex, it causes us discomfort, but it is sensitive and therefore we treat it with the greatest rigour. We have heard all the entities that have spoken in the Assembly of the Republic on this matter and we have collected all the relevant contributions in legal, ethical and medical matters. In this regard, I would like to thank Dr. João Semedo, who, in a generous, self-conceived way, has defended this cause. [[P.S., BE, and P.N. Applause.]] Not being, as I said, an easy subject, I thank all those who have taken a stand, in favour and against, maintaining a respectful and serious stance, without entering radicalisms that never clarify and just confuse and scare. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] This debate deserves seriousness and rigour in the arguments of two legitimate positions, which must also be respected. No one makes the apology of death. No one does the apology of suffering. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u39	We all agree on people's right to their dignity until the last days of their lives. Because we have different views and different understandings of how to safeguard this dignity we should not dramatize this circumstance, which is normal in a democratic and plural society which has been discussing this indisputable subject. We have this notion: the subject is today undisturbed, and it has been so for several years. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For all these reasons, having very clearly the weighting of values in the presence, our proposal safeguards that euthanasia will not be practised if the patient is not aware and informed; euthanasia will not be practised if there are doubts about the patient's discernment; euthanasia will not be practised if the opinion of the guidance doctor is unfavorable; euthanasia will not be practised if the opinion of the verification and evaluation committee, where the Order of Doctors is represented, the Order of Nurses, the Superior Council of the Magistratura, the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences is unfavorable; euthanasia will not be practised if, at the moment immediately before and before witnesses, the patient does not reiterate his will. Supporting the Socialist Party's bill is an option taken with responsibility, with the necessary sense of prudence and with balance. It is an option that defends the patient and safeguards the individual ethical meaning of health professionals. It is the option that affirms the right to live with dignity. [[P.S., BE, and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u40	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record the inclusion of Mrs Rubina Berardo in order to request clarification, to whom I shall immediately give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to greet Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos for her intervention and her personal commitment in this legislative process. Madam Member, to be against radicalism is also to respond to the doubts legitimately put on this by all legislators. I will not say that your bill, as well as those of the other parties, is ill-intended. They present it as an exhortation to freedom, to the self-determination of the patient and also to the fight against suffering. But, Mrs Deputies, how do you explain that the main agents, those who, after all, would have to make the final assessment of the patient's request for euthanasia and subsequently also have to execute this decision to end their lives, would be against the bills? Please explain to us, Mrs. Member, why the representatives of these health professionals, the current and all the former cantonaries of the Medical Order have signed a very clear stance against these bills — a substantial opposition to the claims of these bills. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what is the value which, in this way, is attributed to medical deontology? Can you ask any doctor, perhaps also our colleagues, of all the benches, who, besides Members, are still doctors: is it considered that the laws of the arts of medical science can be the target of adultery — and deep adultery — by a Parliament? Oh, my God! Madam Member, there is another word that has been repeatedly used in this debate: dignity. I ask you if you think that the dignity of the human being is altered in the face of the clinical condition of the patient and the citizen. Should dignity not be an immutable value from the beginning to the end of our lives? Do you think that the disease removes dignity from a human being? Even if it's a serious disease, even if it's a terminal disease? After all, Mrs. Member, what is the exact moment when your bills consider that human beings lose dignity and can thus be subject to a decision to be euthanized? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u42	In reply, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u43	Mr President, Mrs Rubina Berardo, first of all, wanted to tell you that at no time in the lives of people, in whatever circumstances, I believe that dignity is lost. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it was therefore, because we wanted to give more dignity to each one's life, to each individual considered, that we also presented this project. The honourable Member has made statements that are not correct. In fact, he said that most health professionals are against. Mrs Deputy, I know positions of some canoes, but they are personal positions, do not represent the whole of the members of the Orders. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, with all ease, I would like to tell you that dignity is valued when we look after people who are in a fragile situation. Note that we speak of people who are in extreme suffering and who cannot decide, being conscious, when it is now possible for a patient who is in a state of unconsciousness to be determined by others, even by health professionals themselves, whether or not they continue treatment. What we are deciding today is whether a conscious person, I repeat, conscious,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u45	... you can decide whether or not you make a request to anticipate your death, relieving your suffering. So, look, Mrs. Member, all of us, as I have said, and I repeat, are in favour and we fight for more and better palliative care, but what is at stake today is to give the patient autonomy, that is, to allow the decision to relieve suffering to be of the patient, as long as you are aware. But, as I said, and I repeat, always in a state of conscience. Mrs Deputy, today, health professionals can already decide on the lives of patients. We give decision-making power to conscious patients. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u46	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is up to me to present Bill No. 838 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) by the authorship of the Greens, which proposes to the Assembly of the Republic the definition of the regime and the conditions under which the death of assisted medicinal products is not punishable. The Green Party project is intended to decriminalize or decriminalize, if they wish, the drug-assisted death, in very specific circumstances and at the request of the patient. That is why I will ask all those who hear this speech to understand the Greens' proposal in the exact terms in which we present it and not as if it contained provisions and measures which it does not contain. The fact is that in the Greens Ecological Party, when we decided to put forward a proposal — an intention that we immediately expressed in the debate of petition No 103 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — we created a working group, coordinated by Francisco Madeira Lopes, which was tireless in listening to many people, mainly in the areas of health and law, as well as in the reflection we carried out internally within the Greens. The regime we propose for the regulation of assisted drug death, under very restricted and specific conditions, is therefore duly weighted as a proposal and contribution to the debate, and cannot be overturned in its reading to say that there are proposals that are not included in the project. It is only with that serious dose that the debate can be held. We will therefore be presenting what the Greens actually propose, but not without leaving two brief notes, the first one, to justify a position already expressed by the Greens that the debate of these projects should be done over time, but in time. What do the Greens mean by this? There are steps that must necessarily be taken and nothing is gained by the rush of discussion and decision. The margin of acceptance of the proposal presented by the Greens will be all the more — we believe — the more the proposals are known and weighted. in this process there are three steps that it is important to travel with the due time. The first was the one in which the debate was made, very motivated by the petition already mentioned, and where the most attended drug death was discussed in the order of principles, without the concrete proposals on the table or only with one or two. The second stage is that where all the announced projects are formally presented and reflection is already based on concrete and differentiated proposals in some important aspects. That was the stage we should be going through now in peace. It is the stage in which publications are emerging, with regard to the projects submitted, in which various entities are issuing opinions, in which the Parliamentary Group « The Greens » continues to receive contacts for sending the project so that national, regional and local associations can produce reflection on what is proposed. The third stage, in the perspective of the Greens, should take place at the beginning of the next legislative session, i.e. from September onwards, corresponding to what should be the beginning of the legislative process, where the debate is included in plenary and, in the case of approval of the draft laws, we expect, of course, from our perspective, a joint text, from the whole of the projects presented. It is the stage, let us say, of the construction of the text of the law itself. It was understood, however, to schedule for today the discussion of the projects on assisted drug death and, with the exception of the Greens' position on the times of debate and reflection that I left here expressed, we also dragged our bill for this agenda, for today, and here we are prepared for the debate. The second previous note that we would like to leave, before entering the actual presentation of the bill, is that they do not expect from us the arrogance of claiming that the discussion about assisted drug death is easy, objective and does not move with values deeply rooted in our society. In fact, we assume that this is a sensitive, sensitive matter. It is about playing the legal good that is life. What we cannot do, however, from the perspective of the Greens, is to confuse the place of the right to life in our legal order, as a fundamental right which is, with a supposed duty or obligation to remain alive, even when a person has the prospect, which is his, personal and non-transmissible, of just having to expect more suffering, perhaps even more atrocious than the one who has already suffered for a few years, in which the person no longer recognizes in his own life the minimum dignity of the condition of person and of human being. They do not, however, expect from the Greens a drop of arms in difficult legislative processes, where it is necessary to assume that precautions must be taken to ensure that certain limits are not exceeded, so that they do not slide beyond what is intended to be envisaged. Therefore, it is also understandable that it is understood to restrict drug death assisted to exceptional situations and to a weighted, careful and respectful process, above all, I repeat, especially of the patient. That is why it is necessary to understand the set of principles that guided The Greens in the elaboration of this bill and what limits we have drawn. Our legal-constitutional building is based on the dignity of the human person, on the dignity of every human being, in particular, and on everyone, as a result, which implies respect for personal autonomy in a social context. In the face of a specific case of a person suffering, guaranteed and unequivocally, a disease without cure, irreversible and fatal, causing an intolerable and atrocious suffering that, knowing consciously that the tortuous agony is the only expression of life that will know until the day of his death, asks that, out of compassion, allow him not to continue to live this reality and that help him to anticipate death in a calm and painless way, it is asked whether the guarantee of the dignity of this person does not go through to his request, since with the certainty that he is conscious, sincere, convinced and free. Should the State determine that a person in this condition loses his autonomy, his dignity, his freedom to decide on himself and his own life, forcing him to suffer terribly, when there is no other solution, when no doctor or technique can eradicate that pain and the situation in which he is found? Oh, my God! In extreme cases and with a guarantee of deep consciousness and capacity on the part of the person concerned, it is not the State to deprotect the person from the right to life, but rather to respect the will of the holder of the right to life and not to impose on him the duty or obligation to live in a serious and intolerable way. It is in this sense that the Greens propose that the death of an assisted drug should be detonated, in extreme situations and under very well defined conditions. Therefore, of course, this proposal does not imply forcing anyone, I repeat, no one to choose the anticipation of his death or that someone decides by the person in question. No one can, according to the Greens' proposal, be even encouraged or advised to do so. Moreover, the guarantee of no influence or pressure of any order on the person concerned is a assumption that The Greens caution on the project they present. From the perspective of the Greens it must be respected the will of a person who does not conceive of the anticipation of his death, in the face of a limited situation of pain and intolerable suffering, caused by terminal disease or large and irreversibly incapacitating injury, as well as the will of another person who, in this same situation, decides that it will end, briefly and quietly, through the procedures of the assisted drug death. It is the will of the person, therefore, that must be respected and for this reason the State should not prohibit the possibility of making such an option in extreme situations and with very well-defined processes. What is meant, in effect, to ensure that the principle of the prohibition of meeting the freedom and will of the person gives rise to respect for the principle of his dignity, his autonomy and his sovereignty, as a person capable and conscious of determining and choosing whatever he or she wants or does not want in his or her life. At this point, there are always those who argue that what is intended is to exchange palliative care for assisted drug death and that it will start to put an end to the lives of people who are in terminal phase. Nothing more intolerable and out of the context of the Greens' proposal! One thing in nothing, nothing, implies with the other. There is a Basic Law on Palliative Care and if there is no greater investment in this care, as well as in continuing care, it is because over time there have been those who exchange this investment for the deficit values and always put the deficit in front of it all. Let it be clear that the Greens' proposal at nothing, absolutely nothing, contributes to reducing, relieving or disresponsibility of the State in relation to its duty to ensure patient access to palliative care and to ensure a good network of such care, in order to prevent and alleviate physical, psychological, social and spiritual suffering and to improve the well-being and support of patients and their families, when associated with serious or incurable disease, in an advanced and progressive phase, as the law determines. It is not the decriminalization of assisted drug death, at the request of the patient and in extreme cases, that will withdraw 1 cent that is to invest in palliative care, until it involves no more medical or nurse hiring or investing in hospital equipment. what is involved here is to allow a person, in very well defined cases, to decide what to do with the end of his life. It is not the State which must decide for it, it is the very person who must decide, provided certain assumptions are guaranteed, leading to respect for its will, capable, express and immediate. We therefore emphasise some of the assumptions required in the Greens' proposal. You can only ask for the opening of a procedure for the evaluation of drug-assisted deaths who are in a situation of deep suffering, resulting from a widely incapacitating and definitive injury or serious and incurable disease, which is in terminal condition. The request can only be made by a patient aged 18 years or older, with Portuguese nationality or legal residence in Portugal, who is to be accompanied and treated in the health establishment of the National Health Service. The request cannot therefore be made by a minor or his legal representative. A patient who suffers from mental or mental illness or who is considered unable to understand his or her situation and to make decisions on his or her own life cannot be answered. The ability of the decision itself is decisive. Moreover, according to the Green Bill, if at a certain stage of the proceedings the patient becomes unaware of the procedures relating to the death of assisted medicinal products are interrupted immediately. The patient's request must, cumulatively, satisfy the following conditions: be serious — it must be genuine and true; be free — it cannot be conditioned, influenced or co-accompanied by another; be personal — it must correspond to the will expressed by the person himself; be instant — it must be present and cannot be deferred in time; be expressed — it must be clear and unequivocal, it cannot be implied or sub-compliant; be aware — it must provide a person fully able to understand and decide; be informed — it must reveal full understanding of the procedures and consequences arising from the request, previously informed and explained by a doctor. In addition, the patient's request must be repeated and must be expressed at least four times in writing: in the first request, before the referral of the verification committee, after the opinion of the verification committee and immediately before the consumption of the assisted drug death. On the other hand, the patient's request is assessed by a verification committee, consisting of three doctors, two nurses and two lawyers, based on the positive report of the incumbent physician and a psychiatrist and, eventually, of other doctors who consider themselves useful. It may be said that these steps to be taken become understandable in the face of the assurances that it is necessary to ensure. However, the Green Bill, surrounded by cautions and guarantees, does not end up eternally evaluating the request in an extensive bureaucratic hell that increases the anxiety and suffering of the patient. in this respect, it seems to us that we propose a careful and balanced process. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: If all the conditions laid down in the law are guaranteed, it is for the patient to choose whether the administration of the lethal substance, painlessly and calmly, is done by the doctor or by the patient himself with medical assistance. As can be seen, for the Greens to death assisted medicine at the request of the patient, it must be a clinical process whose development, without precluding a doctor who holds the process to the end, should involve other bodies, ensuring the sharing of responsibilities and safety in the assessment of the situation and in the fulfilment of the legal criteria. It is thus ensured that several interveners are involved in a patient's decision-making logic, but cautioning the weighting of a team of people with broad knowledge and experience, who will not leave the patient to their fate, before, respect it in their dignity. It is clear that, in these circumstances, the Greens have the right to object to the conscience of doctors, nurses and other health professionals, but they also provide for the patient to be ensured their follow-up by a doctor who is not an object of consciousness. There is an aspect in which the Green Bill distinguishes itself, when it determines that the death assisted medicine can only be ensured by the National Health Service. The Greens make this proposal deliberately to move away from the private sector, which, by its nature, aims to obtain profits, from the assisted drug death procedures. This is the way to ensure that assisted drug death does not become a business factor in our country. This is a guarantee that, for the Greens, it must be assured and therefore we propose that this should be a procedure only possible through the public service. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Death is something we generally consider deeply shocking, death, from which we spend our whole life, under normal conditions, fleeing and fearing, death is, in our culture, frightening. The same words could be used for deep, incapacitating and unbearable pain and suffering resulting from incurable, fatal and terminal disease: it is something we consider absolutely shocking, we spend our lives fearing it and it is always scary. Is death more fearful than the totally atrocious suffering resulting from fatal illness? The answer will depend on each individual in particular and it is that freedom of a person, and only that person, to decide on what it supports or does not bear in a life limit, under very specific conditions of terminal disease, which The Greens believe that the State has a duty to guarantee. The Greens Ecological Party presents this bill as a concrete contribution to the reflection that is required to materialize, but also to decide, in perfectly defined terms, on the extreme situations in which assisted drug death may occur. The Greens' legislative initiative is a contribution to reflection and decision-making. It is not the horrible, heinous and unthinkable at someone's right to take another's life. what it is about is the right of someone to decide about the end of his own life, in a short and painless way, and to be able to ask a doctor for help to do so, because he cannot bear that intolerable and atrocious suffering is the only reality he will know until the end of his life. It is the dignity of the human person, it is the self-determination of the human person, which we speak of in the bill of the Greens which I have now introduced. [[Applause from The Greens and the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u48	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on the legalization of euthanasia is complex and emotional. It clearly involves questions of life and death and all weights are imposed. As regards on-demand homicide, the CDS has a clear position: we are against euthanasia. We defend the protection of life and the promotion of dignity and freedom, which we are not afraid of. Dignity is an intrinsic value of the human being and, regardless of the circumstances, there are no lives worth living and others not. Euthanasia does not confer dignity on life or death. We defend a dignified life and a dignified death through the provision of good health care. The destructive suffering in the end of life is not acceptable, it is treatable, but it is inhuman to consider that in order to end this suffering one has to eliminate the one who suffers. Good ends have never justified bad means. We cannot speak of a supposed right to die — that is absurd, death is inevitable — but what we are really talking about is the right to be killed by another, the right that does not exist. It cannot be argued that this is an individual freedom or that a decision is not imposed on others or has no consequences on them. They will be involved in third parties who are truly who will decide on any request and who executes death. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: What strange freedom is this which requires decisive contributions from third parties and which compromises a State that mobilizes and organizes to allow that decision—and that is why we are talking about legalization? Oh, my God! The alleged freedom of choice cannot be free to cause harm to third parties, especially to the most vulnerable, when the laws are bad and have no limits to ensure the protection of all. This distorted view of freedom, associated with a pseudo-modernity, is a tribute to the individualist matrix that today undermines the solidarity vision we want for a truly modern society, which cares for and does not leave the most vulnerable behind. It is about creating a permit for doctors or nurses to anticipate death, they who, repeatedly, as a collective and in public positions, tell us that this act violates their principles and that the execution of a murder upon request is not a medical treatment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not the autonomy of the sick people that reinforces, it is the power of third parties over the life of another who increases, which is undeniably dangerous. Dignity and freedom have, yes, to be valued, but never in opposition to the protection of human life, the central value in human rights. The projects in favour of the legalization of euthanasia presented today, although with small irrelevant differences to what is really involved, have an unmistakable fact in common: they confront, in a radical way, the structural principles of our society, profoundly altering the current social dynamics, and create a culture of trivialization of death on request, deprotecting the most vulnerable, those who have less social support, the thousands who do not have access to palliative care, those who live in disability situations. They are legislative proposals that understand that the suffering of someone is a legitimate reason for the State to execute its death. These proposals are based on assumptions of application to very few cases, in order to then give rise to the reasons for this suffering gradually widening and have nothing to do with either exceptionality or end-of-life situations. There are many illusions and false promises around this debate. The discussion cannot be done only in abstract, and it is mandatory to move on to some of the questions about reality. Why do we make laws, such as those we are debating today, which have safeguards that are quickly surrounded, opening the door to abuse and coercion of the most fragile? Oh, my God! Why ignore the reality of the few countries in which euthanasia is legalized, with laws similar to those we are debating today, such as the Netherlands, Belgium or Canada, where people with mental illness, people in mourning, people who are not in the end of life, newly diagnosed people or those with disabilities are euthanized, but afraid of their future? Oh, my God! Why enable laws that allow thousands of euthanasia per year, as is the case in the Netherlands? Oh, my God! Why, sirs. Gentlemen, repeat the mistake? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Why does the bias in the legislative decision, the need to interrupt a debate on this complexity, ignoring the emphatic and rotting way in which our Constitution says that human life is inviolable? Oh, my God! Why ignore the recommendations of entities such as the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( CNECV ), professional orders, the European Court of Human Rights, the various religious communities representing thousands of Portuguese, or the representatives of the masonry? Oh, my God! Why ignore that similar laws have already been dropped in Parliaments such as those in Britain or Finland? Oh, my God! Why do you vote bad laws, with so many risks and doubts, and even above all without the mandate of the voters, which are somehow attracted? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: These will be laws with consequences that have no return. Laws exist to protect all, and even more weight is needed in this area. Suffering is a harsh reality, subjective, a perception, and therefore capable of transforming intervention on the part of all. At the end of life, suffering depends on physical factors, but also on aspects such as loneliness, loss of sense of life, greater or less social support for caregivers. We will not solve the problem by eliminating the one who suffers but, yes, actively intervening so that this person can live differently. We do not accept proposals that can deresponsibly blame society and the state for those who suffer, in the face of the most vulnerable, proposals that are far from what is seen today as a civil advancement. We do not intend, we do not want a disruptive and unaccompanied suffering in the end of life. This is a reality, fortunately today, treatable and modifiable by palliative care, which in everything diverge from euthanasia in the nature of its objectives and means. We are against therapeutic obstination, an already condemnable practice today. We do not need a law of euthanasia to reinforce rights and freedoms that must be strengthened, such as the right to make a living will, to refuse unnecessary treatment, or not to be « connected to machines». Freedom and dignity in life and death are reinforced with widespread access to palliative care, with more and better social support, with better clarification of society. The question we have to answer, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not how we want them to execute our death but, first, how we want them to help us live until the end of our day. And that requires loyalty to fundamental values. But today, above all, it is necessary to give due consideration to what each Member of the European Parliament will say shortly, with the meaning of his vote, to those who have elected him, and that is well beyond the personal convictions of each one. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is no right to be killed, if euthanasia is not a medical act, if it is not only a matter of individual freedom and there are third parties involved, if it is not only exceptional and terminal cases, if the life of more unprotected people is at risk and if palliative care does not reach the vast majority of Portuguese, why should dangerous decisions be taken? Oh, my God! I shall finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, stressing that in the CDS we have a solid path in these matters, in order to promote a more modern and inclusive society. A thought-progress that has been made, which has been adopted in this Parliament, such as the Basics of Palliative Care Act, the law of the vital will and, more recently, the legislation on the rights of the sick in the end of life and support for caregivers. We will continue this course, and that is the commitment which, today, in front of all of us here, we will again assume: not to leave behind those who suffer and are unprotected, to strengthen their freedom and dignity, keeping the greatest and most relevant of our fundamental rights, which is the protection of the life of all and of each one. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, standing up, and from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u50	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Mr Moisés Ferreira, from BE, and Mr António Sales, from the PS, to whom I suppose the honourable Member will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u51	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u52	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor, then.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u53	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, just so that the CDS-PP does not continue to insist on a false argument and therefore it is wrong for her to use, as mentioned on page 56 of the 2009 electoral programme of the Left Block : « SNS — New challenges, new rights or recognition of the right to assisted death and the development of palliative medicine ». [[CDS-PP protests.]] There were no retreats in the position of the Left Block, there were, yes, developments, and these are the developments that we are discussing here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u54	Opportunism!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u55	We do not like the CDS-PP which, although in 2011 did not propose the restriction of access to IVG (voluntary termination of pregnancy ), reformulated its position and applied it at the end of its term of office. We do not do as the CDS-PP, do not worry, Madam Member, we do not betray the people nor restrict freedoms. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Mrs Deputy, as the CDS-PP has already used to us, has come here to talk about assisted death but has not said anything about bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u57	He spoke of a fable anyone who tries to tell the country, but that nothing has to do with reality. So perhaps, in order to help her and put her in a position, I will explain to her what is really being discussed today in this plenary. This is to decriminalize the anticipation of death, in situations of incurable and fatal illness that cause unbearable and lasting suffering, and since, at the request of the patient himself, asked, this, done repeatedly and consciously. This is what we are discussing here, Mrs Deputies, is nothing of what I said in the rostrum. But we got it. It was not out of ignorance that the honourable Member said so, it was for an option. The CDS-PP has as its option the discourse of fear. But you know, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS-PP, that the speech of fear will not frighten anyone who defends freedom of decision...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u59	...and that dignity will not be hostage to your intolerance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u60	Freedom, self-determination and dignity are the values that are under discussion here. We well know that these are values that look strange to the CDS-PP, but that's what we discussed here. [[CDS-PP protests.]] On this side, on this bench, we are for freedom, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are for the possibility of each and every one of us to decide freely about life and its end! [[CDS-PP protests.]] On this side, on this bench, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are for freedom, allowing anyone to make the choice he wants, and society and the state must guarantee the instruments and conditions for carrying out this option that is made individually. On this side, on this bench, we do not impose our choice of life, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We say that health care needs to be strengthened—for of course! We say that palliative care needs to be reinforced—for of course! We say it is necessary to take care of it until the last moment—for of course! But we say more than that, we say that assisted death must also exist for those who, despite all this, want to see their suffering obvious. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u61	We are for all this, for freedom, and we don't impose our choice on anyone. The question I leave to Mrs Deputy and the CDS-PP bench is this: why does the CDS-PP want only one option? Why do you want to impose your vision? Why do you want to force others to have their opinion? Why not accept freedom? Why deny what many consider to be worthy of the way? Why does the prejudice of each individual’s right to decide about his or her life and how to face his or her end of life overlap? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u62	Mr António Sales has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u63	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, in the Hippocrats oath, which I lent myself and you too, and which I have in my hand here in the October 2017 version of the Geneva Declaration, says solemnly: "The health and well-being of my patient will be my first concerns". And it is also said: “I will respect the autonomy and dignity of my patient.” Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, on the basis of this principle, what will be our role in prolonging human life, when what is at stake is not health but, yes, disease, which destroys, which humiliates being aware of its condition? Oh, my God! [[P.S., BE, and Os Verdes.]] Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, is individual freedom in the context of modern citizenship compatible with this limitation of the right of choice? Should the right to inviolability of life not incorporate the right to renounce, in situations of irreversible illness, with extreme suffering?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u64	You must, of course you must!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u65	Mrs Deputy, this is a theme based on principles and values that each of us considers and values, but is also influenced by issues of personal experience and individual consciousness. If there is a universally accepted right to life with dignity, there can also be no longer a right to death in conditions of dignity, without suffering and with affection. Decriminalizing a certain practice is not forcing anyone to do so. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u66	Individual freedom is the most precious good in human life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would therefore like to leave you a few questions, even in the form of reflection. Will this not be a more appropriate and balanced process, if it is framed in a restrictive legislative mesh, thereby giving greater legal, ethical and human security? Madam Member, in this particular legislative process, should not every Member of Parliament, by me, vote in conscience and be able to surpass his individual option what he believes should be the freedom of choice of each citizen? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are those who want to be confused to reign in the chapter of parliamentary victories. We're not going that way, we're never going that way. Human dignity, in life and death, deserves much more from us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u67	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u68	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the questions put by the honourable Members. Members and say that, in fact, on tolerance and intolerance, the Portuguese will judge where they stand best. We are not talking about assisted death, which is guaranteed with good health care, because that is what all Portuguese want, but we cannot do this debate clearly and rigorously using euphemisms! We are talking about a serious problem, which is that of suffering in the end of life, and what distinguishes us, honourable Member — what distinguishes us, I repeat — is the answer we want to give to this problem. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u69	In fact, we impose nothing on anyone. You are going to impose on the National Health Service (SNS ) that organizes the media... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[PS and BE protests.]] ... and, more serious than that, they will impose a culture that will begin to devalue those who are most vulnerable. [[Protests by PS Member Antonio Sales.]] Look at the tolerance, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u70	Let's impose several options! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u71	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u72	Mr António Sales, I ask you to read the medical statement where you continue to say that human life is inviolable! [[Protests by PS Member Antonio Sales.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u73	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr President, read that part you have not read, where it is said that doctors should respect human life. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u75	In the interest of the patients!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u76	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u77	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I would like to ask the two gentlemen. Members are sure that, with your projects — the Left Block and the Socialist Party — those that are most vulnerable, those who are not at the end of life, those who have chronic diseases, those who have disabilities will no longer be subjected to pressures from society itself to end their lives prematurely. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u78	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u79	That's what we don't want and we'll always be on the right side. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u80	What a sadness!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u81	Mr António Filipe has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate to be convened today in this House does not sum up a dilemma of the individual consciousness of each one in the circumstances of his own death. Don't! What is being discussed here today is a legislative policy option of the state, of extreme complexity and with deep social implications. The legislative option on euthanasia cannot be presented as a matter of individual choice or reservation, based on the autonomy of the will that is recognised to each individual. The constitutional principle of the inviolability of human life implies, whatever the circumstances, a duty of the State and society to defend the life and dignity of the human person. What we are called upon to discuss here are the circumstances in which the legislator must recognise to citizens the right to demand the anticipation of the end of their lives, which procedures must be adopted so that the State should defer or disregard this requirement and what the way of their implementation in the event of a deferral. No one lives or dies alone. The situations that may lead a citizen to ask for the anticipation of his own death are inseparable from the conditions in which he is given to live the last days of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u83	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u84	Someone who wants to anticipate the end of his life because he has not guaranteed the necessary care for an end of life without suffering, or because he is denied the material means to have a end of life in conditions of dignity, or because he is not guaranteed the necessary support in the lack of family support only deserves understanding, solidarity and support so that he has a true alternative. But that the State, which does not guarantee its citizens the conditions for a dignified end of life, guarantees them conditions to put an end to life in the name of dignity, that is, for the CFP, is unacceptable. The CFP therefore rejects the idea that this is a debate on the dignity of life or death. The dignity of life is not guaranteed by the legal consecration of the right to the anticipation of death. Human life is not only worthy as long as it can be lived in full use of physical and mental capacities and faculties and society must ensure conditions for a dignified life at all stages of the human journey. Therefore, the CFP rejects the idea that a person with "final injury or incurable disease" or "in extreme suffering" is affected by such a circumstance in the dignity of his life. In this position of the CFP there is no insensitivity to human suffering. The CFP will continue to fight for the realization, at the political and legislative level, of measures that respond to the full needs of users of the National Health Service, including: in strengthening serious investment in palliative care, including households; in guaranteeing the right of everyone to refuse to submit to certain treatments; in guaranteeing medical practice not artificially prolong life; in developing, improving and accessing everyone's resources that science can provide, in order to guarantee each one, up to the limit of life, the dignity that is due to each human being. The opposition of the CFP to euthanasia is based on the idea that the state's unthinkable duty is to mobilize technical and scientific advances to ensure an increase in life expectancy and not to shorten it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u86	Science already has resources that, if used and accessible, allow to reduce or eliminate physical and psychological suffering. Each citizen already has legal instruments, such as the vital will, to enforce his or her individual decision as to the clinical acts he or she wishes to receive. Medical practice ensures non artificial prolongation of life, respecting death as a natural process and refusing its protection through therapeutic obstination. In the face of the problems of human suffering, illness, disability or disability, the solution is not that of disresponsibility of society, promoting the early death of people in these circumstances, but rather that of social progress, in order to ensure conditions for a dignified life, mobilizing all social means and capacities, mobilizing science and technology to deduce suffering and disease and to ensure social inclusion and family support.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u88	What is required is that the advancement and progress of civilization, as well as the increase in life expectancy as a result of scientific evolution, be called upon to ensure a life with dignified material conditions in all its phases. The proponents of the initiatives under discussion will say that the possibility of early death, which they propose at all, is an obstacle to investment in palliative care. But what no one can deny, if the initiatives are approved, is that the same State which does not guarantee conditions to eliminate suffering in life is guaranteeing conditions to eliminate it by death. The project of society that the CFP defends is based on a deeply humanist conception, that does not give up on life, that fights for decent living conditions for all and that requires policies to ensure them, from the outset, by the material conditions needed in life, in work and in society. contrary to what happened in 1998 and 2007 with the fight for decriminalization of voluntary termination of pregnancy (IVG), the decriminalization of euthanasia would not solve any of the serious social problems affecting Portuguese society. In the IVG case, women were convicted of abortion, ongoing trials and public humiliation, and thousands of women were at risk for having to resort to clandestine abortion. There was a social scourge that needed to be resolved and the CFP fought for the Assembly of the Republic to assume the responsibility to legislate without being dependent on the uncertainty of referendum consultations, always in defense of the life and dignity of women. Nothing like that is at stake now. Early death did not even consist of the electoral programmes presented in 2015, and rather, what is a serious social problem that must be solved is that of the SNS training to respond to the population's health needs, including palliative care, and the creation of social support conditions that guarantee decent living conditions for all citizens. That, yes, should be the legislator's main concern. The projects presented here today are concerned about the decision on the early death of several procedural cautions in order to avoid the accusation that the proposed legislation could lead to a'sliding ramp', in which euthanasia would be applied to cases not expressly provided for by the legislator. We believe that the proponents' intention is to avoid this'sliding ramp', but this does not allow us to ignore that in the few European countries where euthanasia is allowed - and that is the exception, it is not the rule! — that'sliding ramp' is an irreversible fact which does not deal with the precautions imposed by the legislator. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u89	In the Netherlands, where the legal precautions are many, the patient should be aware, in an unbearable suffering and without prospects or hopes for improvement, euthanasia already represented 4 % of the country's deaths in 2016 (6091 cases, including 32 people with dementia and 60 people with psychiatric problems) and it has also been applied to unconscious patients, provided that a doctor considers that they are in extreme suffering. In Switzerland, for the simple fact that, in legislation, incitement and assistance to suicide are only punished if they are based on « selfish motives », a true international business of early death was established, of supposedly benevolent and association-type intentions, through two institutions, designated Dignitas and Exit, which, in exchange for high amounts, are responsible for helping suicide. The criteria are supposed to be rigorous: the patient must have discernment and manifest his will, consciously and freely; his request must be serious and repeated; his illness must be incurable; the physical or psychic suffering that affects him must be intolerable; and the prognosis of the outcome of the disease must be death or at least a serious disability. Everything seems very rigorous, but the nature of capitalism is responsible for making everything much easier. It will be possible to say that none of the texts presented here today will allow Portugal to assume situations like these, but the legislation of Switzerland or the Netherlands did not allow it either! The legislator simply opened the door carefully and someone took care of the crash. on our part, it is not a matter of setting up intentions on the results which would lead to the approval of the legislation that is proposed to us. It is simply not naive to think that equal legislative solutions can inevitably produce different results. For the PCP, euthanasia is not a sign of progress, but a step towards civilizational backwardness, with profound social, behavioral and ethical implications. in a framework where the value of human life is often relativized according to criteria of social utility, economic interests, family responsibilities and charges or public expenditure, the legalization of early death would add a new dimension of problems that cannot be ignored. It would, of course, introduce a relevant social problem resulting from the pressure of referral to the early death of all those to whom society refuses to give response and support in a situation of particular fragility or necessity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u90	Mr President, it has already exceeded the time available, even taking into account the time given by the Greens. Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u91	I will finish, Mr. President. The CFP therefore decided to vote against all projects aimed at the legalization of euthanasia. This is not a decision taken lightly. We respect diverse opinions based on situations and feelings of particular sensitivity. We do not ignore the misunderstandings and differences of opinion of people we respect and continue to count on in the many struggles that we wage every day for the dignity of the human person and for the realization of the fundamental rights of our people. However, the decision of the CFP is taken with the conviction of translating a political project of transformation and social progress and a humanist conception of life. The CFP's position of refusal of euthanasia is not based on moral or religious considerations, which is based on the fact that what should prevail in the legislator's options is the intrinsic value of life and not the value of human life based on its usefulness, economic interests or questionable standards of social dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u92	Mr President, I ask you to conclude. You've already used the two minutes handed over by the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u93	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. This is the position of those who identify in the action of human beings and in their social intervention the transforming element of social reality and the decisive element for the scientific and technological advances that have allowed, throughout history, to prolong life expectancy and improve health indicators and that, in the sense of social progress, they will allow to deduce suffering and disease and ensure dignified living conditions for all citizens at all stages of their lives. [[Congratulations on the PCP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u94	The Bureau records the registration of Mrs Mariana Mortágua to request clarification. However, Mr António Filipe does not have time to answer, and I ask the honourable Member to keep the registration, even though she knows that she will not have an answer to her request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u95	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u96	You then have the floor for this purpose, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u97	Mr President, I am sorry that Mr António Filipe has preferred to waste his time, not leaving time for debate, but still I do not stop putting questions to the CFP and making an intervention. It is out there, at the door of the Assembly of the Republic, a concentration of people asking the honourable Member to vote against these projects, as he will, in fact, do today. These people, who are in their legitimate right, understand that life is not the one who lives it, but it is a transcendent power—and now they also defend that women should be criminalized by abortion. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] These voices want your vote and turn to some arguments that the CFP has repeated here today. They use the strategy of fear, they invent that euthanasia is imposed on the elderly or chronic patients, and Mr. Deputy, who read the projects, knows that this is a grotesque lie. They claim that the right to end life in situations of irreparable suffering cannot be exercised individually, they say it is a civilizational retreat, and even there are those who mythize science and almost promise eternal life. Today we decide here whether kindness to the free choice of the end of life should be punished, and you prefer punishment. We have decided whether a person has the right to choose to die when death is inevitable, and you prefer to deny that right. We have decided today whether we are keeping the threat of the law on medical compassion in view of the will of the patient whose suffering is unbearable, and you prefer the threat. Our difference, Mr President, is therefore not about business, because there can already be business in all medical acts, including palliative care; our difference, Mr Member, is about political choice. If the consciousness of Cavaco Silva, if the consciousness of Isilda Pegado, if the conscience of Mr.António Filipe or the Member of the Christian Assumption determines that, regardless of the suffering, life is worthy only if it is lived up to the last blow determined by God or by the physical condition, I respect that consciousness, and respect it - because I want people to be autonomous, free to choose whether they accept or refuse, according to their conscience, an agony that they consider to be humiliating, that they consider to be degrading and that they consider it to be unbearable. I want for myself and for all people the right to a dignified life to the end, and that is what we have decided today, Mr President, is not about more or less than this. Remember, Mr. Member, Saramago's words about Ramón Sampedro : « No one has the right to tell a person(...) ‘you will stay there, connected to (... ) tubes’ (...). We must accept death from him, « because that is what the person wants». We do not kill, but we respect those who say to us: "Please help me. What a pity that you have not heard the words of Saramago today, Mr. Mr President, for this law to prevail, we do not threaten, we do not invoke dogmas, we do not promise eternal happiness or eternal life. We only want respect for the conscience of each person to decide to die in accordance with his or her dignified concept of life, in his or her own country, in security and in peace—and that is all we have decided on today. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u98	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u99	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u100	Mr President, to stop, through you, and as an appeal, asking whether the Parliamentary Group has asked me a question knowing that I did not have time to answer, it makes time for me to be able to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u101	Mr António Filipe has been here for many, many years and he knows that it is common for Members to ask questions even if there is no time for the answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u102	That's not true! He never let himself ask questions without time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u103	In any case, if the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes to give in for some time, it will not be the President who opposes it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u104	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u105	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u106	Mr President, if I may, to clarify the House on the registration of the Left Block, I shall say the following : Mr António Filipe said that the registration of the Left Block to request clarifications was made in advance knowing that he would not have time to answer. That is not true, for it is wrong that Mr António Filipe has started his speech, and we have signed up to ask for clarification. It was your decision to waste time not answering.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u107	It is not worth developing, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u108	However, the Left Block Parliamentary Group, with the permission of the President, gives Mr António Filipe 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u109	Mr António Filipe, you have the floor to reply to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, available for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u110	Mr President, I would like to thank the Left Block very much for the 30 seconds you gave me. I would like to say that we are not discussing here a problem of respect for the dignity of life or for the individual autonomy of each one, we are discussing the attitude that the State should have towards the end of life of its citizens. That is the point. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u111	The question is whether the State should mobilize all possible means of guaranteeing conditions of dignity until the end of life for citizens or whether its efforts should be mobilized to allow the citizen to put an end to his life in advance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u112	Mr. Deputies, you have already exceeded the 30 seconds you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u113	With regard to the references you have made to other people who oppose euthanasia, Mrs. Member, I mean that we think about our head...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u115	...and we don't take our positions on opposition regardless of who they are. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u116	Mr Fernando Negrão of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My position on euthanasia is known, but it is not about my position that I am here to talk to you. I have come to tell you what I believe to be the majority feeling of the Social-Democrat Bank, and this, today and now, is neither in favour nor against the decriminalization of euthanasia. It is, yes, against the decriminalization of euthanasia in these circumstances, without sufficient debate and weighting, without the demanding, rigorous, exhaustive and cautious reflection that a theme like this requires, a theme that implies a change in the way each of us lives and perceives society and that, whether we want or not, has in itself the seeds of a radical change in our social organization, our interpersonal experience and even our notion of solidarity and compassion. For the first time in centuries, we are talking about the possibility of legislating about death, about the possibility of decriminalizing, in certain circumstances, the act of limiting life. Without associating here any judgment of value, and denying this statement any populist weight that can give it, we must all agree that it is not something that should be done lightly or to fulfill a timetable. To recognize, as we recognize and value, that this is a matter of conscience does not mean that it is not also a matter of politics. The greatest proof of this is that we are here discussing projects whose proponents intend to carry out and become laws. If this is not politics, then what is it? But, being conscious, it does not mean — and in this particular case does not mean — that it is the exclusive consciousness of 230 Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen present. Don't! Let us be serious, responsible and consequent: this is a matter of consciousness for everyone and for each Portuguese. It is ours, but it is to the exact extent of the Portuguese that each of us here represents. Portuguese to whom we never said we would discuss and present legislative initiatives on euthanasia,... [[PSD applause.]] ... Portuguese who, too, are not, in their vast majority, sufficiently awake to the subject nor in possession of all the information we need to form a conscious and thoughtful opinion. We ourselves underestimate the issues, underestimate the Portuguese and minimize the democratic importance of campaigning and electoral proposals when we do not include matters of this size and then, as if it were a minor matter, we move forward with legislative initiatives, covering any ordinary reason. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]] No one here denies the democratically representative nature of the exercise of the functions for which each of us has been elected. This is not therefore an objection for lack of legitimacy. But in the same way that I do not abdicate from the representative power that I am imbedded as a Member of the Nation, I also refuse to circumvent this right when I understand that, in addition to what my conscience tells me, it is essential to respect the democratic expression of the programme and the electoral campaign. In matters such as the size of euthanasia, for example, we cannot and should not catch up with Portuguese surprises. As the country is less than a year and a half of the forthcoming legislative elections, I understand that a large number of Portuguese people would like to be able to count on this time to mature and form more accurately and consciously their opinions on a topic that affects society as a whole. Only then will our votes be understood by the Portuguese. Because the reality is this, ladies and gentlemen. Members: we can say that we believe that the PSD electorate is mostly against the decriminalization of euthanasia, that we believe that the voters of the Left Block are clearly in favour, that we are sure that those who vote on the CDS are absolutely against the possibility of assisted death, but the truth is that no one really knows. With the exception of the NAP, which placed the issue in its electoral programme, although proposing only its discussion, and that it was thus suffocated, no other party can say that it knows what voters understand. [[Protests of BE Members.]] At the very least, it is presumptuous to want to boast of any certainty as to what is the desire of most of your voters, the more of your Portuguese, and what it will represent, for all of us, a decisive step in the progress of Portuguese society. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we join the theme of euthanasia on palliative care, they accuse us of being mixing different plans, they say that one thing has nothing to do with the other and that we are confusing different realities. But are we? Let us see: in a country where 80% of patients die without palliative care, i.e. without any aid in relieving pain in the terminal phase of their lives, are there conditions for these patients to choose the path they want in effective freedom? This is, unfortunately, our reality. Will progress be measured by the avant-garde of being the 4. the country of Europe approving the decriminalisation of euthanasia? Or is it measured, first, by the fact that we are on the line of Europe with regard to the provision of palliative care? The largest hospitals in the country, including the IPO (English Institute of Oncology) in Lisbon, do not have boarding units, 8 of the 18 districts have no home teams, more than 70,000 patients already know, because they have already been deprived of access to such care when so many of them needed. But resolving this problem requires further efforts. The Government, which, in November 2016, presented a Strategic Plan for the Development of Palliative Care 2017 - 2018, with defined goals, what did it do? He hasn't achieved a single goal until today! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I know that there are no Members here more or less sensitive than others to pain and suffering from others.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u119	I know that there are no more or less generous and supportive Members here with their peers than others.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u121	I know that there are no Members here who are more or less committed than others to contributing to a better society. So this can never be a manicist debate between some who are the bad ones and others are the good ones! [[PSD applause.]] But, yes, there are, in fact, differences between us. We do not all share the same view of society, we do not all have the same globalization, we do not all think the same way, but, when we have the mission to work for the common good, we have the obligation to give our best, of each one of us to give his best. The opinions known about today's voting drafts advise, in most cases, the greatest caution and utmost caution. They ask for greater maturation of the matter, alert to the intrinsic deficiencies of the bills, in short, recommend more calm and weighting. Ending, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever the vote of each Member and every Social-Democrat Member, I am sure that everyone will do so in freedom and respect for their conscience, because even if it is not for the time being, tolerance always gains in the medium term. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u122	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fernando Negrão, what is in fact at stake today is a discussion on an essential dimension of life and also on individual freedom, and on this issue I would like to congratulate the PSD on assuming the freedom to vote for its Members. But in this debate, it is also important to know what is relevant and what is at stake. It is not at stake to force, condition or co-operate, it is not at stake to impose behaviors or convictions. What is at stake is whether or not a man or a woman is allowed, when in condition of intolerable suffering, to decide their lives without any third party conditioning. in this debate, what is at stake is whether or not it is allowed that everyone, in a free and conscious way, can decide and choose between suffering in an intolerable way or die with dignity. Today, what we are doing here in the context of discussion of the proposed bills is putting the law on the individual's side and not paying attention to it. Mr, this debate is not convincing either, it is not belief,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u124	It shouldn't be!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u125	... does not cry out for religious questions, it is not an ideological debate, it is not a debate on the left and right, it is a debate on humanity. And this is important: human dignity, humanity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a debate of men and women who want to discuss the living conditions of free men and women. This is a debate about the suffering of each one, about the pain, about the choices of each other. This is a debate, Mr Fernando Negrão, which will allow me to put to you and all the Members in this House of the Republic a very specific question: can the State or should it be able to continue to decide that a citizen should continue to live even in situations of physical and existential exhaustion, of extreme suffering, with definitive injury or incurable fatal disease, in situations of loss of his dignity, even against his will? To facilitate the answer, I just wanted to quote here a sentence of an illustrious Portuguese: «God created free will for man without any limit. Man has to be responsible for what he chooses, including where and when he wants to die. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Who said that? Paulo Teixeira Pinto, recently in the Express newspaper. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u126	You have the floor to answer, Mr Fernando Negrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u127	Mr President, Mr Fernando Anastácio, I would like to thank you for your question and tell you the following: I know a story by Miguel Torga, who, except for mistake, is in the New Counts of the Mountain, the Alma-Grande, in which Miguel Torga tells us the legend of the Abafador. And the legend of the Abafactor is about someone who existed in various lands of Trás-Montes and who, when people were dying or lying down, put them to death. And, honourable Member, this happened for one reason: because at that time we are talking in the first half of the 20th century — the times were of misery, the times were of hunger, the times were of unemployment, the times were of lack of basic health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u128	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u129	That's why, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u130	Don't abuse Miguel Torga!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u131	And what happened from that time until now? There has been a permanent evolution of people's living conditions in order to preserve and maintain people's lives as much as possible. It was in the economy, through better employment; it was in health, through better care for patients... always in the sense of preservation. I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that this, yes, is humanity. And this is the line that everyone must continue, because, fortunately, the world will continue and the evolution of these care will continue as well. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u132	Mr Margarida Mano, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u133	Mr President, Dear Members: We are today meeting in plenary session for the debate and vote of the four bills that aim to regulate the conditions of decriminalization of drug-assisted death and euthanasia. This is a qualitatively different from the other sessions. By its nature, I dare say that it will be, if not the most important, one of the most important votes of the current Parliament. within a few minutes, what will be involved in the vote is whether or not to accept a new principle in Portuguese law: that there are objective conditions in which the State should put an end to human life. Whether or not we accept, as a college of legislators, the replacement of the idea of a State that, in the name of ideals that supplant us as individuals, protects its citizens in any circumstance by a State that, in the name of individual freedom, is legitimate to limit life? [[BE's protests.]] This is the issue that is decided today and which makes this vote truly important and qualitatively different from the other votes. We're not here at this point by chance. We have come here because in society today there is a set of feelings, experiences and values that print dynamics of social changes that are perceived differently by different citizens. There are new trends in context that create new ethical dilemmas or that simply make us revisit old dilemmas in the light of new doubts. Each time — and our time does not run away from the rule — is marked by its own dynamics that generate inevitable tensions. If the defence and guarantee of individual freedoms is one of the central values of our time, which, moreover, determines decisively, and very well, the legislative activity of Parliament, it is also true that, as legislators, we move in a conception of a framework society, but does not submit, of free will. As the individual is a social being who affirms in the relationship, the individual good and the common good will always be two variables that, although distinct, are inevitably inseparable from our political equation. The individual right to ask the community to end a life confronts visions between the individual good and the common good, in an ethical and philosophical dialogue. Today's debate on euthanasia, which inevitably leads us to the role of the individual and society in the ethics of Humanism, is unquestionably a sensitive and complex theme on the value of human life in society, which raises deep existential dilemmas and deserves particular respect for the different perspectives involved. We hold today's debate with a significant set of doubts that come from both the documents and statements collected in Parliament and from the environment created by the expression of public opinion around us. In ethical terms, the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( CNECV ), in relation to the NAP project, issued an opinion — the Assembly of the Republic is still awaiting the other three opinions on other diplomas, in which it alerts, in 10 points, to the conditions of inequality that would be created in relation to health care due to citizens and concludes that the diploma, and I quote, « does not meet the ethical conditions for the issue of positive opinion ». There are several doubts here, in this context of the very relevance of the National Council of Ethics: if such a Council exists — again, emanating from Parliament — it is because our democracy and other institutions have defined that its existence is valuable. We will hurt, in view of our recent history, to ignore it ostensibly. In medical terms, both the current and the former bastonaries of the Order of Physicians have pronounced themselves, as it has already been said, and the Order of Physicians itself has made public its negative position in this matter. by exempting the State from its role as cotton and by putting this burden on the person of doctors, aren't we washing our hands? We are not legislators, as we stress the importance of individual will, putting all the weight of this decision in the hands of doctors whose deontology does not support this conflict? How to overcome the ethical conflict of doctors? Oh, my God! In legal terms, the myriad of problems is listed in detail in the opinions of the Advocates'Order on the proposals of the draft laws and, in constitutional terms, the doubts concerning Article 24 (1) are known. o and 25. in political terms, much has been discussed in the public opinion about the opportunity of the vote at this time, in a legislature in which no party has expressed its views on euthanasia in its respective electoral programmes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u134	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u135	Doubts, doubts, many doubts that cannot fail to bother those who seriously want to hold the debate in Parliament. The PSD presents itself in this conscious debate of its responsibility as the largest Portuguese party, aware of the importance of the complexity and seriousness of this issue. It is not by chance that the PSD does not take a position against or submit a proposal. He does not do so because he did not propose it to the electorate, not having a mandate to decide on this issue by the Portuguese. The PSD did not precipitate this debate, but it does not challenge it. The PSD Parliamentary Group, in this regard, does what it has always done throughout its history in matters of conscience: giving each Member's conscience, with its own limitations and legitimacy, its sense of vote. As a humanist and personalist party that is, it will practice in this important vote what is respect for the freedom of conscience of each Member, and certainly voting in conscience does not mean being able to follow a personal trend but, rather, to weigh the interests at stake, on the basis of the basic principles of our Republic and a common good that is served by democracy, never the opposite. I shall therefore vote in conscience and without partisan discipline of voting, in deep respect for the informed and informed vote that all Members of the House will exercise and await the understanding of the voters who, having voted on me as their representative, do not revert to my vote. I shall, of course, vote 'no' on the proposals put forward. I do so with deep respect for the suffering of people who could act differently with the approval of this legislation. I do so because I am proud to live in a social rule of law which I do not want to see changed, where the social value that unites us and which justifies us as legislators overlaps with the individual. I am proud to live in a state that aims to protect and take care of life. I believe we're all responsible for everyone. That is what characterizes a just and solidarity society. It took a long time for us to reach this level, which is still largely to be met. The values of fraternity and solidarity, as underlying values to trans-individual rights, should be taken seriously. We need answers for everyone, with the necessary investments, so that the alternatives we all know speak higher. I quote a sentence from Luís Archer: « In the light of the new powers that science gives to man about life and about himself, it is important for man to hold the nets of progress and take ethical decisions that make it possible for him to shape an authentically human future. Do not keep on seeking. ” We know how to fight, in this debate, and with the vote that will follow, for a future of authentically human hope. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u136	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, of the Green Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u137	Mr President, of all we have had the opportunity to hear in this debate — and indeed, some of the issues, some of the arguments that have been raised here and we have not been surprised at, there is a question which the Greens cannot accept: the question is put in the logic of palliative care versus assisted drug death. That is not what is at stake. That is not what the Greens are proposing in their project.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u139	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us do an exercise: let us think that we were living in a world of wonder — and that would, in fact, be desirable — in which all Portuguese would have access to palliative care if necessary. The Greens would propose exactly, in the same terms, the same bill. So it's not about one thing versus the other. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me be aware of my foreign concern about the palliative care of the parties, in particular the CDS, which brought it here with greater vehementness, who were in the government, who know that they have not taken a step to regulate the Basic Care Act and have disinvestted themselves in the sector. Therefore, the speech did not strike with concrete action in governmental terms. I think we need to remember this, in order to understand the seriousness of the arguments in some of their dimensions. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when I made the initial intervention — long and still — of presenting the Greens project, I specifically asked them not to overturn what is included in our bill. Therefore, it cannot be said that people with dementia or unconscious people could be subjected to an assisted drug death process when the Greens bill taxfully says that this is not possible. Therefore, if this were to happen, it would be a crime, in accordance with the current law and in accordance with the Green proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u140	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u141	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore important to take account of our draft law as it is presented. I am not going to say — as I have also underlined from the rostrum — that we are faced with an easy-to-build text. The Greens, when they set up a working group and began to discuss this matter within themselves, hearing a number of people related to the areas of health and law, realized the difficulty of legislating on this matter. We do not push that difficulty. But are we going to cross our arms in the face of difficulties or are we going to work? In addition, we believe that there is a process in the specialty which must, in the Greens' view, be deeply involved and discussed. A set of entities, movements, associations, etc. must be heard. This cannot be one of those processes made in a hurry in committee to culminate in a non-participated law. That The Greens would not accept in any way. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they are aware of the intervention the Greens have had in the Assembly of the Republic over the years. Regardless of whether or not they agree with our position and with our concrete project regarding the death of assisted medicine, with all honesty someone would say here that the Greens, with all the proposals they have put forward in the Assembly of the Republic, do not advocate that the State use all means, of all and some, to guarantee the dignity of the lives of people in all their dimensions? We have fought so much for this dignity to be effective in the lives of people! Therefore, this cannot be at issue with regard to the interpretation of our bill. However, there is one thing that we actually have to recognize: if a person today, out of compassion, anticipate or help anticipate the death of someone in the end of life who asks not to suffer any more under those conditions, that person is criminalized, is punished with imprisonment. The question is: is this or not to keep in very well-defined, well-specified and very well-accompanied conditions?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u143	More: no one will be obliged to this procedure. Nobody! No one will even be incited — the Green Bill foresees this. Also in relation to the medical part this is guaranteed. No doctor will be required to enter this procedure of death assisted medicine! None! We guarantee the right to conscientious objection. As has already been mentioned and stated, it is the subject of each person's conscience, but there are those in this Chamber who do not allow this to happen. Why? Because if you want to allow the State, that the law determines that this option cannot be made, therefore, that a person in circumstances of extreme suffering, with a fatal terminal disease must be subject to certain conditions that the person himself does not want to be subjected to. Out of compassion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we are talking here too! Even to finish, I want to say that the Greens think it would be a positive step for the Assembly of the Republic to approve all the projects under discussion, because they bring different solutions in some respects. For example, the Greens, as I said, propose that only drug-assisted death can be consumed through the National Health Service, in order to avoid, precisely, the business around this matter. This is an issue that we really want to guard against. It was important that all projects were approved, that the committee should be lowered for discussion in the specialty and that these matters could be effectively and truly discussed, as I said, in an absolutely participated way. Only in this way do the Greens understand that this legislative process could move forward. We have made our contribution to the discussion, we have made our contribution with a concrete project and we want to make our contribution to the decision, a decision that we consider legitimate that the Assembly of the Republic may come to take. [[Applause from The Greens and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u144	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate was informed and serene, except when someone refused to discuss the projects in concrete. It has chosen this person — lacking legal truth — to say that decriminalization is not at stake, forgetting the amendments made in the Criminal Code. He chose to say that it is impossible for a doctor to protect life with this bill, forgetting the wise words of the Saudi Prof. João Lobo Antunes on the updating and adaptation of medical concepts to social evolution and the obligation of the doctor to care for the patient in life and therefore also at the end of that same life. I advise those who did so to reread the bills to let go of the deligitiatory discourse of representative democracy. Know also that it would be wrong for us if we despeaned euthanasia in special situations without intervention by the National Health Service, respecting the right of conscientious objection.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u147	Finally, the decision is of the patient and only of the patient, but of course there must be a clinical procedure, under the penalty of unconstitutionality, because just as human life is not always an absolute value, autonomy is not. What is the wonder? The movement favorable to assisted death, born in 2015, with people from right and left, believers and non-believers, with the support of doctors and so many others, grew up and entered Parliament in the form of petition. This House has made a noble, serene and wide discussion about it. It is from the heart of representative democracy, which has recently been the target of some attacks, to follow up, or not, a petition such as that. The Socialist Party's choice was the one that was embodied in the bill today under discussion. The argument of the non-inclusion of the subject in government programmes forgets the exclusive competence and at all times of the Assembly of the Republic to say yes or no in human rights but to say no. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Each and every one is concerned if it is reasonable to turn to the request for help to die by a patient — who must be a bigger person, in a situation of extreme suffering, with definitive injury or incurable and fatal illness — is punishable by imprisonment. That's what's at stake. It is precisely at stake not to give up anyone, because each person is an intransmissible ethical universe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u149	It is concerned to add a legal-ethical dimension to our city, following the state's evolution to a non-paternalist state, within constitutional limits, because if all lives have the same value respect for the dignified conception of life of each person, coming to the limited circumstances referred to in the bill, it is necessary to comply with the equality of all in the existential plurality of each person. This and only this is the debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I spoke with some people who meet the strict requirements laid down in our proposal. One of them, a woman, died in unbearable agony a month ago. I visited you at your request. He died without understanding why he had no right to ask for help to finish what was no longer a life for himself. We know that helping to die calmly and quietly, ending useless suffering, is an attitude of high moral, humanist, tolerant value. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Protecting human life is different from imposing a duty to live under any circumstances. We are once again deciding whether this is the city of all people or the criminal submission of all to a single moral. Let each one decide to think about all of them. [[P.S., BE, and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u150	At the end of the intervention period, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me mention two previous arguments to answer two other arguments, which, coming from the true content that this debate should have, try to undermine an in-depth debate on a fundamental matter. The first concerns matters relating to electoral programmes and whether or not elected Members and Members, with full powers, are able to present legislative initiatives. from the Left Block, it has already been replied that since 2009 it is included in our electoral programme that this debate would deserve a decision from the Assembly of the Republic. But other banks in this context have already shown that, in their internal debate and in their external debate, they have the legitimacy of the people's votes for today, consciously, to make a decision for the country. We do not accept that some try to say, to escape the decision of this House, that it is delegitimate of a decision. We do not accept this argument! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u152	A second argument concerns the nature of the debate on matters. A short time ago, Mr Fernando Negrão, the parliamentary leader of the PSD, said from the rostrum that there had not been a properly prolonged and conscious public debate on this subject. Mr President, Mr President of the Republic, regardless of his opinion on the content of the legislative initiatives, he acknowledged that they have been the subject of an in-depth debate in society, political parties, social movements and even his own action, but I quote the previous leader of the PSD, Pedro Passos Coelho, in an article in a newspaper in our country: « No one can say that this is a surprise or an unconsidered initiative. All parliamentary and party groups, such as the most concerned and concerned citizens of these matters, have had enough time to make the debate and reflection necessary for the adoption of a decision on this matter." Mr President, we are not the ones we say are people in your political area who recognize it. There was an informed debate and the House is fully legitimized for today to take a substantive decision on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not ignore that, until this debate, within these walls, there have been parliamentary groups that have tried to escape the debate or put up with the proposals. For example, the CDS intervention in this debate, which seemed to be better aware of legislation in the Netherlands or Canada than the proposed laws under discussion. This is the reality! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] He therefore tried to do here demagogy, deceive and distort the foundations of the debate. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS, given the Christian-Democratic matrix that they say to follow up on this path, was called for greater seriousness in a debate of this importance. They were not at the time of the debate! They were at the height of the debate when they tried to create a false dichotomy between palliative care and assisted death. in this matter, even Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, familiar with, as few in this House, palliative care in the country and its insufficiency to treat several medically limited cases, should have here the hobridity and frontality to recognize that medicine cannot everything and that palliative care cannot everything. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u153	You didn't hear what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u154	Therefore, it is false to create a dichotomy between assisted death and palliative care. in these legislative initiatives, we discuss, firstly, tolerance, respect for a dignified life and the respect that the State should have for its people or not. We know from the CDS proposal that it defends an oppressive state that denies the dignity that people recognize for themselves and that it first says what dignity people must have in order to enjoy. The CDS defends an oppressive state that says it should end with suffering, that inevitably would always end with death, by its own right recognized to the individual, should not be allowed. The oppressive State must deny that right. Therefore, on these matters, I will read a text that is not from the Left Block but which I would subscribe with all the letters: "The right of man to a worthy death is directly related to the right to a worthy life. Therefore, when causes of a medical nature prevent the human being from developing his own life or put him in a situation of severe damage to his dignity as a person or suffer from permanent and irreversible physical suffering, the opportunity must be given to decide to end a dignified life." Ladies and gentlemen. Members, who said this were the communists on the other side of the border, of the Spanish State. And what a good example it would be for the communists on this side of the border. What a good example that would be! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Mr President, I conclude by calling on all Members: they vote 'yes' in conscience, not imposing on others what others do not want and with tolerance so that it means a dignified life, which each and everyone is concerned with. Dignity is also measured there. [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u155	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the debate, I would like to say that Parliament is very pleased with the way it has been handled and that there are such strong political implications and the sensitivity of each one of us. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then proceed to the vote on the diplomas under discussion. First of all, I ask the services to prepare the electronic voting for quorum verification and, in the meantime, request Mr Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u156	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the projects of lein.o 889 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Completion of the works, extinction and transfer of the assets of « School Park, EPE » ( PCP ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 890 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the Independent Commission for Decentralisation ( PS and PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 891 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reintegration of the Alfeite Arsenal into the Navy ( The Greens ) structures, which falls to 3. the Commission, 892 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Prevents institutional support for performances that cause physical or psychological suffering or cause animal death ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 893 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 27 / 2007 of 30 July, appointing Tauromachic shows as likely to negatively influence the formation of the personality of children and adolescents ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 894 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It stipulates that the workers of the prairies have access to a special scheme for the award of invalidity and old-age pensions ( The Greens ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 895 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recognizes and regulates the profession of criminologist(s) ( BE) which falls to 10. the Commission, 896 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — makes the VAT system of cash ( The Greens ) more comprehensive than 5. the Commission, 897 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, recognizing the right to 25 working days of vacation ( NAP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 898 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the General Law on Public Works adopted by Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, recognising the right to 25 working days of holiday ( NAP ), which falls to 10. the Commission. The draft resolutions Nos 1654 / XIII ( 3 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — The revitalization of the Agualva ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1655 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The rapid construction of the new hospital in Lagos ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1656 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The reopening of the negotiation process with the representative structures of the Superior Diagnostic and Therapeutic Techniques ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1657 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification intervention on national road No 3 ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1658 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Consecrates September 4 as National Psychological Day ( PSD ), which goes down to 9. the Commission, 1659 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Study of air quality, epidemiological study and measures mitigating to recurrent pollution caused by the olive slurry factory in Fortes, Ferreira do Alentejo ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1660 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Monitoring and strengthening of the programme to support the sterilization of errant and pet animals ( BE), 1661 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that a study be conducted for an intervention between Montemor-o-Novo and Santana do Mato ( EN 114 ) ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission and 1662 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Moscow, Russian Federation, and Washington DC, USA ( PAR ). Mr President, we must also report on the results of the election of representatives of the Left Block Parliamentary Group to the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic, which took place in the previous session. The until is of the following content: « At twenty-four days of the month of May of two thousand and eighteen, the election of an effective member and an alternate member proposed by the Left Block Parliamentary Group was preceded by the election of the Assembly of the Republic, and the following results were obtained: Voters — 175 Yes — 114 White votes — 36 No votes — 25 In accordance with the applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, the following candidates are elected for the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic: Effective— Maria Manuel de Almeida Rola ( BE ) Substitute — Jorge Duarte Gonçalves da Costa ( BE ) To record, the present until was washed, which will be duly signed. Mr Scrutinador, Diogo León". That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u157	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to go into the voting period. As decided at the Conference of Leaders, we shall proceed to the roll-call vote, together, of the bills that were under discussion. If a Member wishes to vote differently on any of the projects at the time of the roll-call, he will have to point out, or vote 'yes', vote 'no' or 'abstention' for all the projects. That is what was combined in the Leaders Conference. Let us first check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic framework records 229 presences, so we have quorum to vote. Let us therefore proceed to the nominal vote, in general, of the projects of lein. 418 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Regulates access to assisted drug death ( NAP ), 773 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines and regulates the conditions under which the anticipation of death, by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and who is in lasting and unbearable suffering, is not punishable ( BE), 832 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Proceeds to 47. the amendment to the Penal Code and regulates the special conditions for the practice of non-punishable euthanasia ( PS ) and 838 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines the regime and conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable ( The Greens ). As you have said, the vote is nominal, so I will call the honourable Members. Members of the House, in alphabetical order, who will do their best to indicate whether they vote in favour of all the diplomas, whether they abstain or have any particularity to indicate in respect of any of the diplomas. I shall immediately call the honourable Members in alphabetical order. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u158	Mr President, I vote in favour of the Socialist Party project and abstain from the remaining draft laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u159	Mr Alexandre Quintanilla.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u160	I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u161	Mr. Álvaro Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u162	I vote against all bills, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u163	Mr Álvaro Castello-White.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u164	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u165	Mr. Amadeu Soares Albertaria.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u166	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u167	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u168	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u169	Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u170	I vote against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u171	Mrs Ana Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u172	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u173	Mrs Ana Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u174	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u175	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u176	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u177	Mrs Ana Sofia Bettencourt.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u178	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u179	Mr André Pinotes Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u180	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u181	Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u182	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u183	Mrs Andreia Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u184	I vote against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u185	Mrs. Angela War.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u186	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u187	Mrs. Mrs. Angela Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u188	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u189	Mr. António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u190	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u191	Mr. António Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u192	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u193	Mr. Antonio Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u194	I vote against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u195	Mr. António Gameiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u196	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u197	Mr. Antonio Leitão Amaro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u198	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u199	Mr. António Lima Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u200	I vote against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u201	Mr. António Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u202	I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u203	Mr. António Topa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u204	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u205	Mr. Antonio Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u206	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u207	Mr. Ascenso Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u208	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u209	Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u210	I vote against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u211	Mr. Bacaler de Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u212	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u213	Mrs Berta Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u214	I abstain from the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u215	Mr Bruno Coimbra.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u216	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u217	Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u218	I vote against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u219	Mr. Bruno Vitorino.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u220	Mr President, I abstain from the NAP project and vote against the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the CDU projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u221	There is no CDU project. But we realized that we wanted to refer to the Greens project. Mrs Carla Barros is next.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u222	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u223	Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u224	I vote against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u225	Mrs Carla Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u226	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u227	Mrs Carla Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u228	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u229	Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u230	I vote against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u231	Mr. Carlos Alberto Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u232	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u233	Mr. Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u234	Mr. President, I vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u235	Mr. Carlos Costa Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u236	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u237	Mr. Carlos Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u238	I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u239	Mr. Carlos Pascoa Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u240	I vote against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u241	Mr. Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u242	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u243	Mr. Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u244	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u245	Mr. Carlos Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u246	Mr. President, I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u247	Mrs Catarina Marcelino.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u248	I vote in favour of all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u249	Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u250	I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u251	Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u252	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u253	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u254	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u255	Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u256	I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u257	Mr Cristóvão Crespo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u258	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u259	Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u260	Mr President, I voted in favour of the NAP project and abstained from the other projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u261	Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u262	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u263	Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u264	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u265	Mr. Diogo León.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u266	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u267	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u268	Mr President, I voted in favour of the drafts of the Left and Green bloc and abstained from the other two.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u269	Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u270	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u271	Mrs Edite Estrela.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u272	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u273	Mr. Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues then voted in favour. Mrs Elza Pais is next.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u274	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u275	Mr. Emídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u276	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u277	Mrs Emília Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u278	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u279	Mrs Emília Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u280	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u281	Mr Ernesto Ferraz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u282	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u283	Mrs Eurídice Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u284	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u285	Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u286	Mr President, I am voting against the four drafts and on them I am going to make a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u287	Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u288	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u289	Mr Fernando Anastácio.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u290	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u291	Mr Fernando Jesus.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u292	Mr President, I abstain from the draft NAP and vote in favour of the others.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u293	Mr Fernando Negrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u294	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u295	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u296	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u297	Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u298	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u299	Mr. Filipe Anacoreta Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u300	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u301	Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u302	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u303	Mr. Firmino Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u304	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u305	Mr. Francisco Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u306	I vote against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u307	Mr. Francisco Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u308	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u309	Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u310	I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u311	Mr. Heitor Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u312	I vote in favour of all projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u313	Mr. Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u314	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u315	Mrs. Helena Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u316	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u317	Mrs Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u318	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u319	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u320	I vote in favour of all projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u321	Mrs Hortense Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u322	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u323	Mr. Hugo Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u324	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u325	Mr. Hugo Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u326	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u327	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u328	I vote against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u329	Mr Hugo Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u330	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u331	Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u332	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u333	Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u334	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u335	Mrs Inês Domingos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u336	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u337	Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u338	I vote in favour of all projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u339	Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u340	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u341	Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u342	I vote in favour of all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u343	Mrs Isabel Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u344	I vote in favour of all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u345	Mrs. Isura Pedro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u346	I vote against all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u347	Mr. Ivan Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u348	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u349	Mrs Jamila Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u350	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u351	Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u352	I vote against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u353	Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u354	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u355	Mrs. Joana Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u356	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u357	Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u358	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u359	Mr. João Azevedo Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u360	I vote in favour of all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u361	Mr. João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u362	I vote against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u363	Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u364	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u365	Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u366	I vote against all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u367	Mr. João Gouveia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u368	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u369	Mr. João Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u370	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u371	Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u372	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u373	Mr. João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u374	I vote in favour of the PS and BE bills and abstain in the NAP and Green projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u375	Mr João Piinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u376	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u377	Mr. João Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u378	I vote against all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u379	Mr. João Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u380	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u381	Mr. João Torres.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u382	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u383	Mr. João Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u384	I vote in favour of all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u385	Mr Joaquim Barreto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u386	I vote in favour of the PS project, abstain from the rest and will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u387	Mr Joaquim Foxo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u388	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u389	Mr. Joel Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u390	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u391	Mr Jorge Campos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u392	I vote in favour of all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u393	Mr. Jorge Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u394	I vote in favour of all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u395	Mr Jorge Falcato Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u396	I vote in favour of all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u397	Mr Jorge Gomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u398	I vote in favour of all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u399	Mr. Jorge Lacão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u400	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u401	Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u402	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u403	Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u404	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u405	Mr. José António Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u406	I vote against all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u407	Mr. José Carlos Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u408	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u409	Mr José Cesario.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u410	I vote against all projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u411	Mr. José de Matos Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u412	I vote against all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u413	Mr. José de Matos Rosa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u414	I vote against all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u415	Mr. José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u416	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u417	Mr. José Manuel Carpinteira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u418	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u419	Mr. José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u420	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u421	Mr. José Miguel Medeiros.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u422	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u423	Mr. José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u424	I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u425	Mr. José pedro Aguiar Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u426	I vote against all projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u427	Mr. José Rui Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u428	I vote in favour of all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u429	Mr. José Silvano.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u430	I vote against all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u431	Mrs. Lara Martinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u432	Mr President, I voted in favour of the PS project and abstained from the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u433	Mr Laura Monteiro Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u434	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u435	Mrs. Mrs. Lucia Araújo Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u436	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u437	Mr. Luís Campos Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u438	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u439	Mr. Luís Graça.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u440	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u441	Mr. Luís Lite Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u442	I vote against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u443	Mr. Luís Marques Guedes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u444	I vote against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u445	Mr. Luís Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u446	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u447	Mr. Luís Moreira Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u448	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u449	Mr. Luís Pedro Pimentel.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u450	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u451	Mr. Luís Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u452	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u453	Mr. Luís Vales.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u454	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u455	Mr. Luís Vilhena.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u456	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u457	Mr Manuel Frexes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u458	I vote against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u459	Mr Marco António Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u460	Mr. President, I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u461	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u462	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the PS project and against the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u463	Mrs Margarida Mano.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u464	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u465	Mrs Margarida Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u466	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u467	Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u468	I vote in favour of all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u469	Mrs Maria Augusta Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u470	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u471	Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u472	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u473	Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u474	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u475	Mrs Maria Germana Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u476	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u477	Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u478	I vote against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u479	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u480	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u481	Mrs Maria Manuela Tender.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u482	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u483	Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u484	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u485	Mrs Marisabel Moutela.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u486	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u487	Mr Mauricio Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u488	I vote against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u489	Mr. Miguel Coelho.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u490	Mr President, I voted in favour of the PS project and against the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u491	Mr. Miguel Morgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u492	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u493	Mr. Miguel Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u494	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u495	Mr. Miguel Tiago.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u496	I vote against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u497	Mr Miranda Calha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u498	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u499	Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u500	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u501	Mrs. Nilza de Sena.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u502	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u503	Mr Norberto Patinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u504	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u505	Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u506	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u507	Mr Nuno Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u508	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u509	Mr Nuno Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u510	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u511	Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u512	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u513	Mrs. Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u514	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u515	Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u516	I vote against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u517	Mrs Paula Teixeira da Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u518	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u519	Mr. Paulo Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u520	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u521	Mr. Paulo Pisco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u522	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u523	Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u524	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u525	Mr. Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u526	I vote against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u527	Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u528	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u529	Mr. Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u530	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u531	Mr. Pedro Coimbra.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u532	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u533	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u534	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u535	Mr. Pedro do Carmo. Mr. Pedro do Carmo ( PS ). — Mr President, I voted in favour of the PS project and abstained from the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u536	Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u537	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u538	Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u539	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u540	Mr. Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u541	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u542	Mr Pedro Pimão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u543	I vote against the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u544	Mr. Pedro Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u545	Mr President, I abstain from the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u546	Mr. Pedro Roque.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u547	I vote against the four bills, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u548	Mr. Pedro Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u549	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u550	Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u551	Mr. President, I vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u552	Mrs Regina Bastos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u553	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u554	Mrs. Renato Sampaio.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u555	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Socialist Party and the Green Party project and abstaining from the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u556	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u557	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u558	Mr. Ricardo Bexiga.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u559	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u560	Mr. Ricardo Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u561	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u562	Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u563	Mr President, I am voting against the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u564	Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u565	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u566	Mrs Rubina Berardo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u567	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u568	Mr Rui Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u569	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u570	Mr Rui Riso.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u571	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u572	Mr Rui Silva. [[Pause.]] It's not present. Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u573	I vote in favour of all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u574	Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u575	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u576	Mrs Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u577	I voted in favour of all the projects, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u578	Mr. Santinho Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u579	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u580	Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u581	I vote against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u582	Mr Sérgio Azevedo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u583	I vote against all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u584	Mr. Sérgio Sousa Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u585	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u586	Mrs Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u587	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u588	Mrs. Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u589	I vote in favour of all projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u590	Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u591	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u592	Mrs Susana Lamas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u593	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u594	Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u595	I vote against all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u596	Mrs Teresa Caeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u597	I vote against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u598	Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u599	Mr President, I vote in favour of the four projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u600	Mrs Teresa Morais.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u601	I vote against all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u602	Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u603	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u604	Mr. Ulisses Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u605	I vote against all projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u606	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u607	I vote against all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u608	Mr. Vitalino Canas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u609	I vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u610	Mrs Wanda Guimarães.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u611	I vote in favour of the four projects, Mr President. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u612	We are in a position to inform the ladies and gentlemen. Members that the bills have been rejected. Bill No. 418 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Regulates access to assisted drug death(NAP) has obtained 102 votes in favour, 116 against and 11 abstentions. Bill No. 773 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Defines and regulates the conditions under which the anticipation of death, by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and who is in lasting and unbearable suffering, is not punishable(BE) obtained 104 votes in favour, 117 against and 8 abstentions. Bill No. 832 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Proceeds to 47. the amendment to the Penal Code and regulates the special conditions for the practice of non-punishable euthanasia ( PS ) had 110 votes in favour, 115 against and 4 abstentions. Finally, Bill No. 838 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Defines the regime and conditions under which the death of an assisted drug is not punishable(The Greens) had 104 votes in favour, 117 against and 8 abstentions. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, standing up, and from the PSD.]] Once again, I thank the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the elevation with which this debate has been held, even now at this stage of voting. I just want to announce the agenda for the plenary meeting tomorrow, Wednesday, May 30th.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u613	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u614	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u615	Mr President, it is to indicate to the Bureau that I shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u616	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Miguel Coelho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u617	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will also make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u618	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. You have the floor, Mrs. Lara Martinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u619	Mr President, it is also to inform me that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u620	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u621	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u622	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u623	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mrs. Margarida Balsairo Lopes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u624	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u625	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u626	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u627	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u628	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u629	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u630	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. You have the floor, Mr. Santinho Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u631	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-05-29.u632	These statements are recorded, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Tomorrow we have a plenary meeting at 3 p.m. the next item is a discussion by CDS-PP on « European Funds, Social Cohesion and Territorial Cohesion » and discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1269 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promptly define the policy guidelines for the negotiation of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027 ( CDS-PP ) and 1648 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend national interests under the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027 ( PSD ). At the end of the debate we will have the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 27 minutes.]]
