ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. As a first item on the agenda we have a current debate required by the CDS-PP under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on internal security. To open the debate, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u2	Mr. President, Minister for Internal Administration, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members : We have set up this current debate for today. And the logic of the current debate, of course, must be to bring the discussion to an issue that is on a daily basis and in our concerns, and this is undoubtedly on the agenda, particularly with regard to discontent, concern and demotivation in the security forces themselves. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u3	The first reason for this concern and discontent, as Mr President will well know, has to do with exactly the expectations created by the government, the promises made by the government that seem to have no solution or resolution. In our opinion, Mr Minister, we have the question of careers and the question of « unlocking remuneration positions ». The Minister knows, as I do, that of the approximately 20,000 police, 18 500 would be in a position to make progress in his career.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u4	Those that the CDS cut!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u5	Of these, some of them have been, since 2008 or, at least, placed in the first position since 2010, that is, they have been receiving, since they entered a probationary regime, as if they were simply mere trainees for a long time. The Government and the majority have promised to resolve this issue. The State budget shall have this matter in particular in Articles 18. it's 19. or, to be resolved. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u6	The Minister promised to resolve this, but like what happened, for example, to the teachers, in this area and in this sector, he did not even open negotiations and this causes the security forces, in their entirety, not to the Minister, nor to the respective ministers, but to the Prime Minister, saying his discontent and the demotivation and instability that this is causing in the security forces. It is very worrying, because we are demanding these women and men to carry out their work with increasingly less and less conditions. On the other hand, Mr Minister : the Assembly of the Republic has approved, and has done so clearly in January, the existence of a risk subsidy. The questions are obvious: will the Minister open negotiations for the unlocking of careers or not? Will the Minister open negotiations or regulate the risk allowance to be allocated to the security forces or not? By the way, if you can tell us, Minister, when will you start these proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u8	When are you going to make these decisions? There is also, Mr Minister, in this area of the security forces, the issue of the burden or the uniform, the first problem of which we already know is to be less and less uniform, because they acquire it in one place and another. So they have a uniform that apparently is not even uniform. Supposedly, the government had announced a platform for agents to acquire their uniform. What do we know today? That the platform does not exist, that the platform does not work. Moreover, we have arrived at the caricature—and I think that Mr Minister will know this—that, in a public ceremony of the greatest importance in Santarém, the agents have used uniforms that were sought at school. And when they gave them the uniforms to be at the stop, they said: "When the stop is over, please return the uniforms, because they are not yours and because there are no uniforms or uniforms". The security forces cannot be delivered to this situation, they cannot be delivered to this cartoon.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u10	Mr Minister, another issue is investment. The Secretary of State has said that there will be investments, that there is money, that the problem is not the lack of money, that the facilities, the teams, the posts of the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) will be repaired. The truth is there will be money, but where is it that no one knows. That is to say, we are also in a state of austerity here, even here if we are forgetting basic issues. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Minister, there are examples for the country outside, but there is one that you certainly know, that of Bella Vista, in Porto, which remains exactly the same. Mr President, do you know how the unit, which, moreover, integrates the special police unit here in the Help, where there are falling walls, where there is a risk situation for the men who are in these teams? [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] The same is true of cars. Mr. Minister has promised cars, but they must arrive. I ask you: do you arrive when and how many? Mr Minister, for example, Odivelas was three days without a single car to patrol for an entire weekend. A 3. the Division, Benfica, has less than half of the cars and has them to circulate 24 hours. Therefore, cars do not exist and this is a serious problem, it is a structural problem that needs to be solved. And I just left concrete questions. Finally, Mr President, saying the following: Mr Minister, theoretically in the same government, being more political and having another experience, came to another dimension and another political resolution. But, Minister, I tell you that you have not given or so far the feeling that you are not giving, because from a legislative point of view, inactivity is very large. I ask you: where is the new disciplinary status, which should already be in force? Where is the union law that your predecessor here has handed over and that, so far, it's around there, we don't know where?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u11	It's this way, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u12	He's here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u13	Where is the new organic law and the new status of the Foreign and Border Service? Where's the new private security law? Where, for example, is the matter related to fires?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u14	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u15	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. How is it possible that none of the Kamovs fly? How is the position in the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal )? Even more serious, Minister, where is the promised, months ago airport security plan, which is fundamental to the country?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u16	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u17	How is it possible that within six months you have not regulated the law of metadata, which is essential to combat the terrorist threat in our country? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u18	Mr Luís Marques Guedes has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u19	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. State Secretaries, I begin by greeting the People's Party, for bringing the matter of security to this Plenary. In fact, it has been four months since the Minister began his term of office. The areas under your responsibility are quite relevant to the country and probably over these four months, it has already had more than time to get to know the files and start solving problems. So I'm going to ask you some questions that have to do with the areas that are exactly under your responsibility. First of all, in the area of civil protection, the Minister has already announced the dispatch to this Parliament by the end of 1. the trimester, of the new organic law, but irrespective of this, I ask you whether the principle that has to do with the competition for the choice of bosses will, or not, be followed by this government. The law will probably only leave the Assembly of the Republic a few months ago, but it was essential, however, that, from a political point of view, whether this government was effectively committed to the competence and choice of the best, or whether it would simply repeat the disaster that happened last year. The second question I want to ask you has to do with the area of road safety. It has already been known that, in the last year, there has been a serious, inversion, of what has been the trend in recent years of lowering road sinequality. So far, Mr Minister, what we have heard from the government was just a set of proposals, I am sorry to say, completely amazing: it was the blocking of mobile phones in the highways; it was the announcement, loaded, of the creation of a police drone squad, so a sort of 'DronoCop', it is not very well understood to do what it is; it was the obvious fun maneuver that is the stir of the imposition of a speed limit of 30 km / h in urban circulation. I must say, Mr Minister, that this measure would probably not even be an original measure, because, as you know, I tell you, 100 years ago, when you started driving cars, it was mandatory to go to a man with a banner running in front of the car to alert people. [[Laughing.]] The speed of 30 km/h in the urban area is something very close to it, you don't see the distinction very well. [[PSD applause.]] What is really at stake, Mr Minister — and that is why I think this is a fun maneuver — is the obvious lack of supervision over the current rules of movement in urban areas. So, Minister, I ask: for when is a serious and effective investment in supervision? For when is a serious investment in what has disappeared or, at least, whose visibility it does not have, what has to do with road awareness campaigns against sinequality? These campaigns have disappeared because of a lack of money or because of a lack of bet or interest of the current government. The third question I would like to put here has been very succinctly addressed by Mr Telmo Correia and has to do with union freedom. In fact, for more than a year now, the Government has submitted a proposal for a law on the exercise of trade union freedom in this House. It has spent more than a year and today we have only the shameful silence on the part of the Government and the Socialist Party. Question : wasn't it meant to be serious? Have you lacked or lack of political courage for the government to move forward with this law?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u21	The fourth and final issue, Minister, has to do with football violence. Mr Minister, it is not only in the question of union freedom that has lacked courage for the government, it is also in this area, because what we have seen today has already far exceeded the sports plan, it is placed in the security plane. They are the daily open insults on television and the media in general; they are the repeated threats to the referees and their families; they are the appeals of leaders to an intolerance that would appear to be of North Korean matrix;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u22	Won't it be on São Caetano Street, Lapa?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u23	... is the escalation infrene and an irresponsible acciatar of intolerance, in total impunity and in the face of the complacency of the authorities. Intolerance, Minister, is the mother of violence. Question: How long will the government continue to be afraid to act, waiting for a tragedy, which, unfortunately, today is already an announced tragedy? [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u24	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a bit puzzled by the issue and the concern that the CDS here demonstrates today with these issues. In fact, the Government that the CDS was part of was the one that most attacked and did the most offensive ever given to workers'rights and working conditions in Portugal. This government was the one who impoverished, who asked to tighten the belt, which further limited all the rights of all workers and workers, and in them include the workers and workers of the security forces and services and the civil protection forces. It was you who, along with the PSD, in your government, cut wages, who frozen and maintained frozen careers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u26	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u27	... that cut the income of families,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u28	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u29	You've forgotten!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u30	...who cut the income of these workers. It is therefore with some perplexity that I now see this sudden concern about the rights and working conditions of these workers and of these workers. It was also during the PSD/CDS government that the most significant decrease in the number of effective workers of the PSP (PSP) and the GNR — were more than 1100 effective. So now, of course, we have an effective low-age security forces, we have legitimate concerns on the part of these workers, which do not arise from what you have done for a long time during your government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u32	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u33	Indeed, now, when the « house comes down», it is easy to point the finger and come to show concern, wanting to rewrite the story or doing as if the Portuguese and Portuguese did not remember, if they had forgotten, and as if these workers did not remember what was done to them during your government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u34	We have indeed many problems in security forces and services. We have the problems of career progression, which are not fully clarified, because these professionals continue to expect to know whether the time of service in which career progression has been frozen will now count for career progression. These are legitimate expectations, given the changes and measures announced by this government, which have to be answered, as well as there must be a response to the infrastructure and equipment programming law. The infrastructure programming law provides for the investment of EUR 90 million per year in all infrastructures and equipment, such as personal protective equipment and cars. However, we continue to receive complaints, almost daily, about lack of cars, about cars that are damaged or obsolete, about obsolete equipment, about personal safety and protection equipment outside the validity period, about some teams and posts of the GNR and the PSP, which are literally falling to pieces. Therefore, it is necessary to understand the degree of implementation of this infrastructure programming law. What has really been done? Where was it made? How was it done? What is the exact timetable for the amendments and what is to be done next every year? We haven't had this information. It is also important to understand what will happen to GNR promotions, promised year after year, also during the previous government, and that they have not yet met. What is the situation of promotions, in addition to the situation of career progressions? There is a need to resolve the problems of the General Box of Submissions on which numerous complaints are received. It is necessary to analyze this situation and to understand, in fact, how the retirement pensions of these professionals are being calculated, because there are constant complaints about the calculation of the reform, about the penalties that people are having, especially the professionals who reformed at the time when the extraordinary rate was in force, also courtesy of the previous government. There is the problem of civil protection forces and the creation of the unique career of professional firefighters, and we would like to hear a response to this.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u35	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u36	I shall now conclude, Mr President. We approved, at the heart of the 2018 Budget, the creation of the unique career until the end of this year. Question : What is the situation? What can the government respond to us and these professionals? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u37	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We were looking forward to this current debate, since the current debate is marked when something is actually happening that justifies the attention of this House for immediate reasons. The expectation was great because, as Mr Minister was at an ordinary meeting of 1. the Commission for long hours, a few days ago, we thought that something extraordinary would have happened that would justify this current debate. After all, no! After all, these are real problems that exist, but there are long ago and, of course, they lack resolution, and we will not stop talking about this. However, this current debate makes sense: it marks a certain rebirth of the CDS to the issues of internal security. During those almost five years when they were in the government, we well wondered what would have happened to the CDS, who was the champion of securityism and who spent five years blowing into the air, as if there was no public security problem: he cut pay to the police, the elements of the security forces, frozen admissions, and the security forces lost effective, and ended up, including with the investment law, which the CDS now questions. In other words, the CDS questions, and well, as the investment programming law will be executed, it reads that with which the PSD/CDS government just ended because it felt there should be no investment in the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u39	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u40	So we actually had a rebirth here. Welcome the CDS to the public security concerns he's been rented for so many years. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: There are issues that really need to be taken seriously and immediately. We are also talking about the application of the State Budget Act. We know that the CDS and the PSD voted against the State budget that decided to freeze careers in public administration — although they are no longer in government and that this is possible. But, indeed, we do not ignore the major concerns of the security forces and services professionals regarding the need for the implementation of the State Budget Act, as regards this matter. It was therefore important for the Government to provide information to this House on how the dialogue is, what it is necessary, with the professional representative associations, because, in fact, the State Budget Act is to be applied, with the specificities of the various careers that are at stake — and we are effectively talking about special careers. Obviously, this is a relevant matter. We understand the concerns of the security forces professionals and it was important to have a clarification on the part of the Government as to how the State Budget Act should be implemented. The same applies to the need to start applying the law in respect of investments. We welcomed here the fact that the current government restored this legislative instrument, which had been abandoned and that, in fact, even in the time of the former PS Government, it was never applied as it was supposed to have been. This legislative instrument was abandoned by the previous government, was resumed in this legislature and we believe it is important that the investments to be made in security forces and services be made clear so as to equip them with the facilities and material means necessary to develop their activities effectively. Obviously, detailed information to this House and to the country on the planned investments, carried out and carried out is of the greatest importance. We really hope that the Government will make the necessary clarification on this issue. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u41	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u42	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: As has just been mentioned, the Socialist Party also shares some of the perplexity of the introduction by the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u43	They're all puzzled!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u44	It's just feelings!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u45	... because Mr. Minister of Internal Administration had until recently been in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, and there was a current debate assumed that something had happened in the meantime. But, in fact, the only thing that happened was, in practice, an act of CDS contribution, because substantial part of its claims stems from policies that the CDS itself continued. When Mr Telmo Correia questions the lack of means, we cannot, of course, ignore or fail to mention, better said, that, as far as the human resources of the security forces are concerned, the balance of the legislature that PSD and CDS have been government is quite negative, we have reached the end of the legislature with a number less than one thousand effective. And this is all the more relevant when, at the beginning of the same legislation, the CDS, in this same House, in this same place and probably in the same chair today, by the authorized voice of its then parliamentary leader Nuno Magalhães, announced that he would take initiatives to increase the entry and increase of police elements. Now, the result was exactly the opposite and today the CDS comes to ask: why are there few police elements? The answer is: because the CDS has decreased and decreased considerably. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The seriousness of this debate is also reflected in the questions addressed to the Government. Mr Nuno Magalhães asked: Mr Minister, what is the proposal for a union law of the security forces, in particular the PSP? The answer is obvious and here you are, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u46	It was me who asked, it wasn't him!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u47	He asked a little while ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u48	It was me. He's brawling!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u49	Mr Telmo Correia asked and I am replying to Mr Telmo Correia, who knew the answer precisely. And the answer, obviously, is not given by the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u50	So, who's it for?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u51	... is given by Parliament. And, there it is, we hope that those who have so far obstructed the obtaining of a qualified majority in a law that needs this type of majority will of course leave it to do so that it can reach a good port in this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u52	Now, are we from the majority? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u53	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, any debate on internal security, and this, despite this framework, is also saying - the parliamentary agenda, a debate on internal security, can never erupt a reality and this reality must be repeated to exhaustion every time we talk about this issue in Portugal : Portugal is one of the most secure countries in Europe. It is important always to highlight the issue of security in Portugal not only because it is consciously a factor of freedom — no one is truly free if he does not feel safe — but above all, because there is always a psychological predisposition to intolerance when someone perceives an increase in levels of threat. Therefore, what is worth mentioning is that, in this legislature, with this government — obviously thanks to the work of men and women who daily give the best of themselves in the security forces to achieve this result — the figures in the Annual Report on Internal Security are the best of all time and we can never speculate that Portugal, in this measure, is a safe country and, as such, must always be valued. I would also like to mention, as Mr António Filipe has already done, because the question has been raised in relation to these matters, the law on the programming of security forces equipment and the absolute disparity, which is currently being put into practice—and surely Mr Filipe will not leave, as we all hope, to address this issue—which is the comparison between the appropriations included in the law annually and which, as you know, enters... In addition, Mr Minister, a few days ago he said precisely that 2018 is the first year in which he will actually begin to be translated into the field, and we are talking, for example, as they asked a few days ago, about cars. Now, car funds, as it is known, for 2017 / 2021, increased by more than 140 %, comparing them with the total amount entered for the period 2012 / 2016. We're talking about an increase of 25 million to 63 million, largely.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u54	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u55	Mr President, I conclude precisely by saying that here too the Government is recovering the country from the results of the governance of the PSD and the CDS and here also the result of the governance will be a better country for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u56	I now give the floor to Mr. Minister for Internal Administration, whom I am taking advantage of to congratulate, as well as to congratulate. State Secretarys of State for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thank the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, which I welcome, for the scheduling of this relevant topic, but I cannot fail to express any surprise at the use of this regiment mechanism, which leads me to redouble my greeting. In fact, what I see here is a great convergence between all banks in the idea that security is not a strictly technical-police issue, security is a perception of quality of life, decisive for the affirmation of fundamental rights, and this is essential for the action of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Security is an important part of the good results of tourism. No one makes tourism in a country that is not considered a safety reference. Security was one of the benchmarks of the best year of the Portuguese economy this century. No one invests in a country that is not considered safe. So thank you very much, CDS, for allowing us here in plenary to update what we did a few days ago in 1. the Parliamentary Commission, updating the information at that time. In fact, today we can already inform the Assembly of the Republic that next Monday they will enter into formation in Portalegre, 600 new guards of the Republican National Guard, which will enable to strengthen both the structure of the GIPS (Group of Protection and Relief Intervention ), addressing, throughout the country, the prevention and attack of forest fires, or the structure of action in the area of the environment. After long years of abandonment and reduction of effectiveness, with those who started training in December we will have, for the first time in many years, 1050 GNR men in formation at the same time. I want to leave here a second note, also to take advantage of the opportunity given by this debate. In fact, the investment programming law makes all the difference here between a generalized de-investment, abandonment of the security area as an investment priority, and what is already the realisation of the State budget for 2018 in this area. In fact, in recent weeks we have been able to complete the delivery of 15 000 individual protective equipment, both to the Public Safety Police and to the Republican National Guard, and this meant triple investment in this area, which was only possible by the approval of the State budget for 2018, despite the vote against the CDS. Secondly, they are right, there was a degradation of the car park during the years when there was a government that was supported by Mr Telmo Correia. It was possible to launch in November, for the first time, a multi-year competition, 2018 - 2021, for the acquisition of cars for security forces and services. Again, if it were not the programming law and if it were not the approval by the Assembly of the Republic of the State Budget for 2018, it would not have been possible to do so. What does that mean? It means that, at this time, since the competition was launched only in November, the award of 250 cars is already decided to be awarded, which will start to be implemented in paragraph 2. This year's semester. By 2018, we will have more than 500 cars assigned to security forces and services. As for investments in equipment, here too, the difference is radical. As I have no time, I will ask for the distribution of information that allows us to give detailed notice of the 16 completed projects, already applying the programming law, the 8 that are going on, the 21 that are being launched, the 24 in which the implementation project is already launched and those in which the implementation project is underway. It is about this area that we will also be able to say: « We will multiply the investment in this area by five ». Yes, Mr. Marques Guedes, we will comply with what is in the direction of the Government for the National Civil Protection Authority, with its leadership positions defined by competition. With confidence and confidence, we will implement the State Budget, unlocking the careers, allowing about 6000 men to make progress in March, that the promotions be carried out, and beginning, in the first week of March, the dialogue with the trade union associations on Article 19. o. This is our commitment, that is what we are going to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u58	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this minute I still have in the debate I want to mention two points. The first is that, indeed, in Mr Minister's speech, something has been missing about the problem of career progressions of security forces and services professionals, and this is relevant.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u60	It was just the subject of the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u61	But there is another question that has been brought here by the honourable Members. Telmo Correia and Luís Marques Guedes, which strictly concerns the Assembly of the Republic and which has to do with the discussion in the specialty of the so-called "union law" for the PSP. The question, at least because of the interpretation we make, is that this discussion in the specialty has not yet occurred because, being a law that lacks a qualified two-thirds majority, the position that the PSD is taking is, of course, decisive. It is therefore extraordinary that Mr Marques Guedes, who, belonging to the Parliamentary Group, has the decisive word on this matter, comes here to ask the Government, on top of it, candidly: « So, and the union law? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u62	The proposal is from the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u63	Well, the suggestion we make here is the following: since there is such a big consensus as to the need to discuss this initiative in the specialty, I believe that there will be consensus for it to be promptly scheduled in the specialty for each parliamentary group to assume its responsibilities in this area. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u64	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr António Filipe is right and therefore I would like to clarify here that in March we will fully comply with Article 18. the, thus designing the progressions resulting from the defreezing of careers and finally it is possible to carry out, after so many years of freezing the wage levels of the professionals of the forces and security services, and we will start, in the first week of March, the dialogue with trade union associations in the form of application of Article 19. in the area of security forces. On trade union freedom, I was able to be correct with the PSD, which well knows what was transmitted to it, which was exactly this: this matter has been here for a long time in the Assembly of the Republic, and this specific subject, union law, requires a two-thirds majority and is considered priority by the Government. And I am sure that, when the internal situation is clarified, both from the party and from the bench, it will be possible to schedule this matter immediately so that we can quickly adopt the union law and the disciplinary regulation of the PSP. Welcome to the debate! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u66	To conclude this debate, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u67	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: To conclude, I am starting with this issue of union law. It is indeed extraordinary, Mr President! The government has begun a new way of legislating,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u69	... because the government here presents a diploma, which has neither feet nor heads and which has not dealt with anyone, and says: "Now, you resolve. We have nothing to do with it, we're out! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u70	It's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u71	Don't you have a majority? Oh, my God! Theoretically, you had a majority, but by the way, you don't have agreement to do whatever it is! It's a total incompetence! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u72	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u73	Secondly, Mr President and Mr Minister, only for the first point I have brought here has already been worth the debate because, in fact, you are very contradictory, Mr Neto Brandão. They're very contradictory! Well, maybe you can figure it out. You say: "We are perplexed! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Maybe that's why they don't do anything. If they're puzzled, they can't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u74	They're paralyzed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u75	They're paralyzed! In fact, Mr President, at least he ends up making sense and contradicting the honourable Members. Mr Neto Brandão and Mr António Filipe, because Mrs Sandra Cunha was not so much there. You say: "There is no reason for this debate. There was no need, nothing happened! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The Minister has just said that in March he has a deadline, given by a motion which was handed over to the Prime Minister by all security forces, and he has already noticed that on 1 March he opens the negotiations. And, therefore, either opens negotiations and closes the promotions by the end of 2019 or has a serious problem, because the problem of nurses and teachers cannot be solved without solving the problem of the men of the security forces, who have their obligations and who run the risk that they run every day. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u76	So, the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are not right at all. [[Protests by PS MP Filipe Neto Brandão.]] Mr António Filipe, even suggested more, but you say the same again: "There comes the CDS again to resume the issue of security! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” You've said this a few times! Mr President, the tapes are gone, the CDs are no longer used; so I would suggest to Mr. Member that he use an iPod, which is the most modern, and that he put on a playlist with new themes, because he always says the same thing, does not leave there, does not invent...! Ipod, Mr. Deputy! Ipod! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by members of BE José Manuel Pureza and PCP António Filipe.]] I really wanted to tell you the following: I did not talk about road prevention, but the road prevention which Mr Marques Guedes spoke of demonstrates, in fact, the style of governance of this government. That is, there is a problem: more deaths on the road. What does the government do? It throws three ideas into the air: maximum limit of 30 km/h in cities, inspection for motorcycles, the letter cannot be automatic and, more, the blocking of mobile phones on highways, which nobody knows how to do. But he throws three ideas without thinking, without doing studies, without planning, without anything. At the end of last week, there were demonstrations. What did the Minister say? « I don’t know why they are manifesting themselves, because I haven’t said anything yet! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr Minister, if you did not say anything, if you have no solutions to present, if you have no answers, at least being quiet would not be a bad idea,... [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] ... because I was sorry to throw away the confusion, to be shaking things that need not be shaken. Or, then, think first and answer later, which seems to be the right path. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs Sandra Cunha is not right on a very specific issue, as are none of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, and I am not saying it, is the president of the union, who is responsible for the police officers, who say this sentence, since Mr Minister has not responded to the union law, at the airport level, to the law of metadata, which is irresponsible, Minister! The fact that you do not regulate the law of metadata in the face of terrorism is irresponsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u77	He didn't answer any of this. It did not respond to specific investments. But you always come with the same talk: « safe country », « time of the troika» and « time of the former government ». I ask everyone, to all of the majority, if you are not worried that the President of the Police Union will say this phrase, which I address to the parties of the majority: "Not in the worst years of the troika has PSP been so badly and has been so mistreated! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Don't you worry about this? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u78	What you say is not true! What is happening now is worse than what happened in the worst years of the rescue and intervention of the troika, because, at that time, Mrs Deputy, there were promotions, contrary to what she says. There were promotions! There was a government that assumed that it did not cut in the internal administration, there was a minister who guaranteed the promotions and there were updates, particularly in the supplement of the security forces, which went from 18, 5 to 20, and in the charge supplement, in the time when we had the troika. Now, you promise, you say you will do, but no one sees the money, nothing is solved and the situation is much worse than it was at that time. You should think, from a political point of view, as it is possible, of a left-wing government that has the support of the parties with greater influence and closer proximity to the trade unions, notably the CFP, the security forces will have with the Prime Minister—and this is a new fact— and say, "We are at the limit! We can't stand it anymore! Either you open the negotiations or this situation is not acceptable! "? The same is true of teachers, nurses or prison guards, who are on strike right now. And all this happens with a left-wing government, which is unpublished for any left-wing and anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u79	That's the graphonola speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u80	This means something very simple, that you create illusions and sell illusions. But your ideological "cement" is not even socialism, it is hypocrisy,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u81	... because you are making bold austerity, you are not making investments, you are not making promotions, you are not taking on your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u82	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u83	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that this is why this debate is useful, that is why this requirement is useful and that is why we cannot play with men and women who risk their lives daily to ensure that Portugal is, and indeed, a safe country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u84	Mrs. Members, this current internal security debate required by the CDS-PP is thus concluded. We will continue, moving on to the second item of the agenda, with the general discussion of Bill No 109 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the rules for the marketing of financial products and the organisation of financial intermediaries and transposes Directives 2014 / 65 / EU and ( EU ) 2016 / 1034, the European Parliament and the Council, and Commission Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 593. To present this bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix. [[Pause.]] I see that Mr. Secretary is not yet in the Chamber, but the Bureau is aware that Mr. Secretary of State is on his way to the Chamber. [[Pause.]] As the Secretary of State is not yet in the Chamber, we will continue our work, moving to the third item on the agenda, and then going back to the second item. [[Pause.]] Thus, we moved on to the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1212 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an agri-food scientific committee ( PSD ), 1334 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a platform for valuing Portuguese agri-food ( CDS-PP ), 1337 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to strengthen research, experimentation, support, monitoring and agricultural advice ( CFP ) and 1341 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish an eco-agri-food scientific committee ( NAP ). Mr. Secretary of State has just entered the Chamber, but as we have already begun the joint discussion of these four draft resolutions, the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the PAN, we will later return to the debate of Bill No. 109 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u85	I call for an explanation, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u86	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u87	Mr President, in view of the exchange on the agenda for the discussion of the various points, we do not have the speakers in the Chamber at the moment for the debate. Therefore, and since Mr State Secretary is already in the Chamber, if it was possible to resume the second point, that would be the best solution for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u88	I think so too, Mr. Deputies. But the very best solution would be Mr. Secretary of State to be in the Chamber when this item on the agenda begins, in which he intended to intervene. However, since there is indeed the possibility of speakers enrolled for the third point not all are present in the Chamber, then let us resume the second point of the agenda, which consists, I repeat, in the discussion, in general, of the proposed law No 109 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the rules for the marketing of financial products and the organisation of financial intermediaries and transposes Directives 2014 / 65 / EU and ( EU ) 2016 / 1034, the European Parliament and the Council, and Commission Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 593. You have the floor, then, to present the bill, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a result of the financial crisis, many Portuguese have lost their savings. They invested them, before the crisis, in financial products, unaware of the risks they were taking. Products sold, at that time, to a bank counter, by suggestion of managers in whom they had total confidence. Uninformed decisions, which cost savings to so many and a widespread breakdown of confidence in the financial sector. The proposed law presented by the Government today aims to prevent this situation from repeating again. Whoever invests, you have the right to know the risk you take. Whoever sells, has to know what sells and the duty to inform your customers clearly, completely and truly. With the proposal we bring here, families, small investors, become more protected, financial institutions are forced to greater transparency, supervisors receive strengthened powers to prevent and detect inappropriate conduct. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to highlight the main points of this bill in the remaining minutes. It is a proposal with 369 pages, complex, dense, with deep and technically demanding implications. In the new framework, financial institutions will have to create product governance policies that sell and will have to define product characteristics and the profile of customers to whom that product is intended. End, now, the time when everything was sold to everyone. If you create a financial product, you have to decide who the customers are for. Whoever markets this product has an obligation to promote only with customers who have adequate knowledge and the ability to understand the risks they take. But this bill also guarantees that whoever sells, has training to know enough about what is being sold. More and better information does not just pass by delivering a set of papers, passing by knowing the product and knowing how to inform customers who are on the other side of the counter. It is therefore up to the financial institutions to ensure that their customers and their workers have adequate knowledge to trade financial products. Customers must have the ability to understand the risk they take, in order to be able to decide freely and conscientiously. But this bill goes further: it requires those who sell financial products to think first and foremost in the interests of customers. Conflicts of interest in the sale of financial products must be put to an end. The assessment and remuneration of those who sell may not be dependent on the sale of a product which is not necessarily what best serves the customer's interests. This bill avoids aggressive remuneration policies that go through the sale of a particular financial instrument. Whoever sells has to be free to advise the product that best meets the customer's needs. This bill also creates rules on the sale of « packaged » products, the so-called « cross sales ». The customer has the right to know the separate cost of each product that integrates the package and decide whether or not to purchase these products in package, which often includes products that are not those that satisfy the customer's needs. In the case of non-professional investors, we go further, prohibiting deposits being sold together with investment products that do not have a guarantee of capital. Here, yes, here we go beyond what is the directive, in the name of the protection of small investors. A deposit is a deposit. A product at risk is not a deposit, it's different. There can be no doubt about this. Finally, and no less important, supervisors see their powers strengthened. We will end with the sad regret that « at that time the supervisor had no power to act ». For, now, it is now to have—and it is to have explicitly—these powers. It is in this context that we believe that the proposal we bring here certainly promotes savings. It promotes the confidence of the financial system, which is fundamental to increasing savings, to channel funds to more productive companies, to stimulate investment, economic growth and job creation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u90	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The process of capitalist integration which the European Union has been deepening is at the root of much of the problems of financial systems as well as the structural imbalances in the Portuguese economy. The idea of an economy at the service of not people but a financial, intangible and speculative market, based on tax wear and engineering with a view to tax evasion, has been causing a real bleeding of the economic resources and wealth of each state, which feels particularly intense among the workers. For high finance and monopolies to continue to accumulate billions of euros, these same billions are subtracted from the real economy, are subtracted from the productive process and from the consumption and removal of the hands of those who really produce wealth: the workers. We're not talking abstract, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. In Portugal, in the last decade, we saw some EUR 20 billion being diverted to cover the holes of speculation and the financial system. These public resources add to more than EUR 7 billion that the Portuguese State pays annually for debt interest, also a mechanism for diverting national wealth. instead of limiting and putting an end to the speculation and financing of the economy, rather than preventing the financial market from dominateing the markets and the lives of the people, the European Union attaches increasing importance to these markets, in a movement of concentration of the capital market (which is particularly serious for countries such as Portugal, where the capital market is weaker), as is also the case in the banking market. The capital union, the concentration of supervisory powers, now also in the European Securities and Markets Authority, is far from the Portuguese State's ability to intervene and contributes to the deepening of a single European capital market, putting at stake, even more than it already is, a share of national sovereignty — although, in this regard, the CMVM (Commission on the Securities Market) is virtually no longer an administrative arm of the European regulators, as the Banco de Portugal does no longer have an administrative arm of the European supervisor. The directives which the Government now proposes to transpose, together with other far-reaching measures found in the diploma, do not limit, or guarantee, public control of the financial market; rather, they determine the application of common rules within the European Union, thus ensuring that the capital market is further and further removed from national control and from public control. The use of offshore, tax havens, speculation, the placing of complex and speculative financial products through the banking system is not minimally limited. It is said that there is a regulation — in fact, 1500 pages of new regulations or amendments to the regulations in force. The market is so good, so good that it needs more articles and more regulation than the Code of Criminal Procedure in Portugal. The European Union and the Government take another step in this flight forward that the large economic groups impose and determine, to hide the deep crisis that goes through the capitalist integration of the European Union and capitalism itself. what Portugal needs is the public control of the bank, more State intervention, more intervention by the Banco de Portugal and the CMVM, and not the reduction of the powers of these authorities and regulation which now pretends that the market for capital and financial instruments will become clean and healthy. Essentially, what the Portuguese need is to affect resources to the economy rather than to capitalist speculation and accumulation. The Portuguese Communist Party rejects the path of deepening the process of capitalist integration of the European Union and, therefore, regardless of the process that may take place in the field of specialty, will generally vote against this bill. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u92	Let us turn to the intervention of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u93	No, no, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u94	Mr President, this is the indication that the Bureau has. The entry was made, if it is now withdrawn, the Bureau shall record that « description ». And so the Bureau has no entries, so we continue with the next item on the agenda. [[Pause.]] Meanwhile, Mrs Inês Domingos of the PSD. Well done, Mrs. Member. You have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Today we are debating the transposition of a directive on financial markets, which is fundamental for a number of reasons. That is because it imposes stricter rules to protect unqualified small investors from bad practices in the financial markets, reinforces the rules for managing conflicts of interest in the remuneration of people selling financial products, regulates electronic platforms more effectively and clarifys what ancillary services the financial services customers are effectively paying. What comes to us here, Mr. President and Mrs. Members, being essentially good, are practically the whole authorship of the European institutions. That is why the attitude of the Secretary of State is somewhat paradoxical. In fact, he tries to pass this law as if it were his, when then he does not explain to us why the government has given up so much transposition, which is truly a problem. Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the European Union is a little bit about this: it is that, systematically, when the European Union creates legislation that is good, positive and favourable, typically the Portuguese Government and some of the left-wing governments take it as if it were theirs and, when things don't work as well, it is always the fault of the European Union. But, finally...! In fact, what happened here and which is worrying is that this transposition has delayed so much. Notice that the deadline for transposition, which we only started to debate today, was July 2017. The process we started today should have started a year ago. And while the government was allowing the deadline, the directive even came into force. This is regrettable because it is harmful both to financial services customers, who see their added rights in this directive as well as to producers and marketers of financial products themselves, which will take some time to make the necessary adjustments to their functioning. Also with regard to the work of this Parliament, Mrs President and Mrs President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, the delay in presenting this directive's transposition initiative means that we will eventually have less time than what would be necessary to conduct a thorough and valid scrutiny of this proposed legislation. Having said this, now that we have finally arrived here, the PSD believes that this initiative is important, as I have already said, and will vote in favour of it. But we believe that it is still possible to make improvements in the field of specialty, and it is particularly important to limit the temptation to go far beyond the Directive because this could put Portuguese financial intermediaries in a competitive injury to others. Therefore, despite the time being now reduced, we hope that there will be a constructive debate in the coming weeks, for which the PSD will undoubtedly contribute. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u96	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers on this point. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government's proposal for a law on the financial market and the marketing of financial products has some positive aspects and I do not think we should or should deny them. In fact, there are new rules for the marketing of products, there is a requirement for a questionnaire that in some way increases the risk of the customer, there are new information duties in the investment consulting or in the discretionary management of portfolios, there are new reporting duties on the risk of financial products, new claims, supervision and sanctioning powers and more transparency in marketing. All this goes in the right direction and it is not worth denying that these are positive measures. I believe, however, that we must adjust the expectations a little as regards the extent of the far-reaching and vast proposal for a law that comes to us. The Directive itself aims, which has also been repeated here, to make financial markets safer and restore confidence in the financial market in the post-crisis period. Mrs. Members, it is not making minor changes to the rules on the marketing of financial products which guarantee the stability of the financial market. In fact, just see what happened in the New York Stock Exchange a week or two ago, when Dow Jones came down, literally, because there were some investment banks that decided to bet on the reverse of the volatility index. In other words, the ridicule was at this point: they both bet that the market would be calm that the volume of bets created a storm in the financial markets and there came the American stock exchange down there. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing has changed since the crisis. The financial system has not changed, the financial system is worse and will get worse, because what the European Union is preparing to do with the single capital market at European level, with more integration and more liberalisation, is to give more space to investment banks, give more space to speculation, give more space to the shadow bank, and none of this will bring stability to the system. So let us be honest about expectations: what is being done in terms of financial market regulation is to increase instability. Then there are small measures to try to mitigate some of the problems that ultimately do not solve any problems. The underlying problem is still present, because speculation is not limited, because there is no public control over the bank, because it is not possible to have a financial system capable of serving the economies. There is another question about the sale of financial products: in many cases in Portugal, both in BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) and Banco Internacional do Funchal ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ), financial products were not necessarily complex; in other cases, the information was given, but people simply did not have the ability to understand the information they were given; in other cases, there were rules for the transmission of information, but these rules were violated, there was a violation of the law and a fraudulent sale. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the new rules will necessarily be useful, and we are available to discuss them in the field of expertise, but they do not go to the root of the problem. To go to the root of the problem it is simply necessary to separate the counters from the bank, so that anyone who wants to make a deposit does not do so in the same counter where you buy a risky product. Thus, we are not at risk of saying that there is a guaranteed capital obligation—because that is what is sold—when that capital is guaranteed by the bank, but is not guaranteed by the Deposit Guarantee Fund, which is the State. Therefore, in order to cut down evil by root it is necessary to separate, it is absolutely necessary to prohibit certain speculative instruments being traded on the financial markets and it is also necessary to prohibit the sale of equity instruments to banks themselves, which is what we have seen in several cases of bank bankruptcy and which has created thousands of injuries. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not make this bill impossible, we are available to discuss it, but we have very humble expectations as to your ability either to protect bank customers or to bring some stability to the bank. We believe that none of these objectives will be met by this bill. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u98	Once again, the Bureau does not record inscriptions, so we will move on to the next item on the agenda... [[Pause.]] Mr. João Galamba is asking for the floor? It is that he has already been registered and is not waving as if he were in the middle of the sea he is entering, he has other advanced technological means to do so. [[Laughs and applause from the PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] However, the Bureau had already registered Mrs Cecilia Meireles for an intervention. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Under-Secretary-General for State and Finance and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and others. Members: The discussion we are having today is a discussion we should have had. In fact, it is a discussion that we have already had, with contributions from almost all parties, but for which the Government had not made any contribution or in which it had participated. From that point of view, although you have finally made your contribution, it is unfortunate that, with regard to a problem that is not new and that has been urgent for years now, it is only now. Better late than ever, it is true, but it would have been good if it had arrived, for example, when the CDS brought the problem to Parliament for the first time in this Parliament. At the time, we proposed concrete measures precisely with the same objective as the Secretary of State has listed—and that is common, I believe, to almost all parliamentary groups— by saying that it is important that people do not "buy cats by hare" and that, for example, when they are in a bank, they distinguish whether they are selling them a deposit or a bank product or whether they are selling them a securities value which is of unsafe return and which is not covered by the Deposit Guarantee Fund. But we also proposed measures related, for example, to the remuneration policy and the use of remuneration and objectives as an incentive — and, where appropriate, an illegitimate incentive — to the sale of products excessively aggressively, which leads to the objective of misleading people. Unfortunately, the government at the time did not say 'present' and, therefore, we have several projects from many parties waiting for more than a year for legislation. Finally, the Directive came, but late and bad hours and, still above, without the proper opinions, which, however, as far as I could see, have arrived, but also too late. So, ladies and gentlemen. If what they are looking for is a consensus on the objectives, I believe that we can reach this consensus; if what they are looking for is a blank check for options that are difficult from a technical point of view and which, of course, cannot be duly scrutinized within the short period of time we have available, it will not count on the CDS. There is openness on our part to do a thorough technical work...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u101	...and see if what the government is proposing corresponds to what it says here. Moreover, we will have to wait for the discussion in the specialty. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u102	Now, yes, Mr. João Galamba, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u103	Mr President, I would like to thank the maritime-ship references of a few years ago, but that was in fact the only means of communication with the President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u104	It just seemed like a drowning, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u105	That'll be it now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u106	It is that the telephone beside me was prevented and, as the President was going to proceed so hard to the next item on the agenda, that was the only way I had to stop the situation. But I apologize for using a less conventional way to communicate with the President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a very important proposal from the Government, whose technical complexity we highlight and highlight. The directives are European, but for some reason there are directives and regulations. The directives must be adapted to the national legal system and therefore there is always an intervention component of the national legislator when a directive is transposed, a work which is difficult and involving several institutions that not only the government. This proposal follows a series of legislative interventions, some even by the previous Government which also transposed directives on prudential supervision and strengthening capital ratios. We have had the issue of audit supervision and now we have the Financial Markets and Product Marketing Directive, which is in fact directly related to several problems that have arisen in Portugal in recent years : BPN ( Banco Português de Negócios ), BPP ( Banco Privado Português ), BES, BANIF. It's a mistake to think that the law can prevent the violation of the law. Crimes will always exist and, therefore, it does not seem to me that the existence of crimes and violations of the law is critical to this or any other legislative alternative, because this is a possibility we will always have to deal with. Nor does it seem to me that everything can be regulated and prevented, because, in that case, the best thing would be to close the market. There is always a balance between regulation and freedom of market players and the Socialist Party believes that this bill achieves that balance. It is still important that we do not go far beyond the European directives by creating exceptional situations in Portugal, where financial intermediaries and Portuguese institutions would be under a set of regulatory provisions that their competitors in other countries would not have. Therefore, there is always a balance and I believe that the government's option of, on the part of unqualified investors, to go a little further than the Directive, given exactly the specificities of the Portuguese case, is appropriate and achieves that balance. We would like to point out that this bill seeks to protect customers and workers, but also to provide the supervisory bodies with the necessary powers and instruments to intervene, so the Socialist Party welcomes this initiative. We have already done work on this subject and debate-CL - it in the field of expertise, along with the other projects already in the working group. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u107	Mrs. Members, the Government no longer has time to intervene; however, the Socialist Party's bench gives it time, so that the Under-Secretary of State and Finance still has 42 seconds to complete this debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to provide two or three information that seems relevant to me. First of all, yes, we are in the presence of the transposition of a long, complex, dense and technically very demanding directive, which, in fact, has meant that it would take longer than we all wanted to reach Parliament. As regards what is proposed, two or three points should also be highlighted. Of course, when we are talking about strengthening supervisory powers, we are talking about the possibility of supervisors prohibiting the marketing of products when there is a serious violation, which has implications at the counter-ordinary level that are very significant. On the other hand, product governance policy will become responsible for the financial institutions that market these products, from the administrative bodies to the entire chain of decision. This also seems extremely important for us not to repeat situations like those of the past, in which no one took the blame for the products that were being sold and no one was responsible. Having said this, I welcome all the banks for their constructive position and would like to express the Government's willingness to ensure that, from the constructive discussion in the field of specialty, it results in a proposal that not only transposes the Directive but also meets the principles of proportionality, not creating a competitive disadvantage for Portuguese financial intermediaries and at the same time protecting customers. That is the balance that we have tried to achieve, that is the balance that we have brought and that is for this balance that we are willing to discuss and give all the information to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u109	Ended discussion of Bill No 109 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a) we say goodbye to Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance. We therefore proceed to the third item on our agenda, which is from the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1212 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an agri-food scientific committee ( PSD ), 1334 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a platform for valuing Portuguese agri-food ( CDS-PP ), 1337 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to strengthen research, experimentation, support, monitoring and agricultural advice ( CFP ) and 1341 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish an eco-agri-food scientific committee ( NAP ). To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr António Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We consider it useful and desirable that a scientific committee should be established in Portugal to support food for the valorization and recognition of agri-food products, a committee that supports and validates information in a very credible way, removing many doubts and speculations about many agri-foods. Currently, there is a lot of public defamation, some of which is intended, about certain foods, among which milk stands out. It is therefore essential to establish a consensus at an academic level — of doctors, nutritionists, among others — in order to confirm milk and other agri-foods as food essential to human health. We understand it is necessary to regain the confidence of many consumers by undoing myths and lies. [[PS protests.]] It is of particular interest to value agri-food as a nutritional standard in the proven food security, in the sustainability of endogenous resources, in respect of environmental standards and of relevance to the Portuguese economy. With this committee it is also necessary to win a differentiation attitude on traditional products, some of them with a Community identification, either DOP ( Name of Protected Origin ), IGP ( Protected Geographical Indication ) or ETG ( Guaranteed Traditional Speciality ). This initiative enables agriculture to be marked as one of the priorities of the political decision in Portugal, helping to combat the drama of depopulation and ageing, which affects many territories. Of the various benefits, the Scientific Committee will cooperate for a competitive advantage in agri-food exports. It is therefore for all this that we propose that a scientific committee be set up in the context of agri-food, for the benefit of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u111	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today a project that recommends to the Government the creation of a platform for the enhancement of the Portuguese agri-food sector. What does the CDS want with this project? In the background, we intend to marry the offer with the demand, marry the offer of the wonderful Portuguese agricultural products, whether they are fresh, whether they are processed, whether they are from the industry, whether they are from the restaurant, or even from the private consumer, by combining this marriage of the offer with the search for what exists in terms of research, which, in Portugal, is of the first quality, whether it is public or private. The CDS considers that information, research and knowledge exist, only that they are dispersed, so they need to be found so that, at the level of the whole chain, there can be the best solutions. We all know that our gastronomic richness is one of the potential drivers of the country's economic development, in particular to the interior, when I join, for example, tourism. I will give three examples of what we believe can be enhanced by the creation of this platform. A first example: many chefs who use products of excellence who are basically real pearls of gastronomy and who have a high added value that can and should remain in production, often do not know that such products exist in Portugal and eventually acquire them in other countries, particularly in Spain and Italy, which are neighbouring countries with Mediterranean products. It must be known that these products are also produced in Portugal. Another example has to do with boosting our Mediterranean diet, which can be more widespread and adopted on a larger scale if all food chain players know what products exist, who does them and who they can be acquired by. There is also a third example that I wanted to leave here and which seems quite relevant to me: in an increasingly striking scenario of climate change, we have the excellent example of INIAV ( National Institute for Agricultural and Veterinary Research IP ), a public institute that has done an excellent job of developing more efficient crops in the use of water, that is, we have cultures that can produce more with less water. This work was done in partnership with farmers' organisations and the industry needs to know that these products exist and develop the products that the industry itself needs. in this sense, everyone can know better and achieve a better result. Finally, we also recommend that, at a time when the need for public policies is being discussed in order to contribute to a better diet and health of Portuguese people, more than having more fees and taxis that serve, above all, the state safes, the CDS proposes to bet on a better education so that the Portuguese can make correct and correct decisions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u113	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The questions of research, experimentation and transfer of knowledge to agricultural activity are of extreme importance not only to meet new and ever demanding challenges with which this activity is faced, but also for better procedures and incomes. And this has been important for a long time, not today or now. That is why, for many years, the CFP has been presenting proposals for the enhancement of research and public laboratories and for the replacement of a rural extension service. However, the path made was the opposite: successive governments, with the pretext of reorganization and restructuring, through programmes such as PRACE ( Central State Administration Restructuring Programme ), the PREMAC ( Central State Administration Reduction and Improvement Plan ) and others, further aggravated regional asymmetries in the distribution of services and stressed the desponsability of the State in these matters. The liberal principle that market laws are defining the path of the economic sector has left the country more dependent on large private interests, to the detriment of the public interest. In response to these problems, the CFP approved Resolution No 166/ 2017 in the Assembly of the Republic, where the Government is recommended to hold a national reflection conference to help establish an appropriate network of laboratories and agronomic stations in order to ensure greater technical support and technology transfer. in this diploma, it is also recommended that the Government undertake an evaluation of agriculture, forests and rural development services, with the aim of strengthening the human and material resources necessary to create support, monitoring and agricultural counseling services, filling the void created by the destruction of the former rural extension activities. As in many areas, they are the smallest farmers who suffer from the dismantling of the state, because they face great difficulties and have less resources to deal with them. It is fair that the State creates conditions for these farmers to also access innovation and research as an integral part of a rural development promotion strategy. Once again, the CFP presents initiative in this area and proposes that the action plan for the implementation of the resolution of the above-mentioned Republic Assembly be postponed; the INIAV and the IPMA (Portuguese Institute for the Sea and the Atmosphere) should be strengthened to maintain and develop its capacity for intervention and the functions of State laboratories; and the processes for dismantling stations/technological centres and laboratories, including those closed by the previous Government, with a view to consolidating a national network of public research and development support structures. It is worth expressing the perplexity with the proposals of the PSD and the CDS right now. The parties that in the government have closed laboratories inside, have kept zootechnical and experimental stations and genetic repositories in a state of distress, have derailed researchers from public laboratories, are now very concerned about the scientific issues of production. We know that this concern is not felt. The CFP does not accompany the remaining projects under discussion today. The PSD initiative aims to further empty the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture, repeating what they did when they were government. The CDS initiative wants to call into question the Agricultural Market Observatory,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u115	He doesn't want anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u116	... voted against the cooperatives' support, but now he's talking on platforms. With regard to the NAP, we do not follow the logic of blaming agriculture for environmental problems, which is underlying the proposal. The commitment to research and experimentation through the enhancement of State laboratories and the replacement of services of rural extension are necessary for an agriculture at the service of food production and food sovereignty, the establishment of people in the territory, territorial cohesion and environmental balance. To do this, the PS government needs to do more than this, it needs to move away from the PSD and CDS options, and here at the moment the PCP proposals remain. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u117	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members : Let us begin by congratulating the PSD for bringing to debate the issue of improving scientific foundation on the nutritional quality of foodstuffs and the various advantages that traditional or Community products end, such as foods classified as Protected Origin Denomination or Protected Geographical Indication. We consider it essential to strengthen transparency, information and the inclusion of more and better science in our decision-making. But we must not stop only in the economic interests of the productive sectors. An eco-agro-food scientific committee cannot serve as state marketing to benefit the food industry. That is why the reports and studies financed by these industries and the incomprehensible financial support for meat and milk production are enough. In addition to dealing with nutrition and food origin, an eco-agro-food committee must also be held throughout the production, distribution and consumption process of the food chain. This body should also deepen and make known to consumers the environmental and life impacts of food-producing animals. As an example, when studying and scientifically supporting the supposed or false nutritional qualities of milk, the State should not seek to hide the true forms of production of this food. People should be informed about the inhumanity of this industry that separates milk cows from their children in the first hours of life. The current form of industrial milk production is ethically reprehensible, but the State continues to deny it and still wants to hide it. But it must also be transparent to consumers and inform them that milk production has impacts on soil contamination, aquifer pollution and that it contributes enormously to greenhouse gas emissions. Our proposal is to ensure that all food goods have a thorough and multidisciplinary analysis, i.e. that not only the nutritional characteristics of each food product are taken into account, but also its impact on ecosystems, on the life and well-being of animals. Environmental costs should not be outsourced and the basic interests of animals in the food industry cannot continue to be reneged at the latest. We propose, therefore, that you and Mrs. Members, that this eco-agri-food committee is endowed with a holistic and integrated vision and also includes in its composition the Academy and environmental and animal protection organisations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u119	Mr Pedro do Carmo of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolutions presented today refer to the agri-food sector, which consists of more than 10 000 companies, with a turnover of more than EUR 14 billion, which employs more than 100 000 workers, representing 11 % of the total Portuguese economy in 2016. For all this, and much more, this sector must be closely accompanied by the government and considered fundamental to our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u122	What is a fact is that, in the absence of better ideas, a draft resolution can always be made on a topic that falls well, and agri-food falls well! A little science and research is added, good eating habits are added, fruit of healthy food, not forgetting local products and small agriculture, all this credible with invitations to nutritionists, doctors, teachers, researchers, and a scientific committee is created. But will this solve? Is this what the sector needs? No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this is demagogy, this is to please everyone, that is to do what is already done, it is to create another body that will create more information. What it seems is that the gentlemen. Members have been distracted because methods, methodologies and bodies have been created to respond to what is requested today. The Government, recognizing the role of research and innovation in the agri-food sector, has taken an active role within the framework of the Strategic Agenda for Agri-Food Research and Innovation, Forests and Biodiversity. Research has been developed. The Agenda takes into account the strategies of the various ministries and the various policies and methodologies presented and has their objectives in the newly created research networks. Examples of this are the network of scientific and technological cooperation for agricultural experimentation in Alentejo, AGROnet, and the PRIMA programme, which is a programme of the European Commission and is common to the Member States, focusing on the themes of food systems and water resources. I'm adding up, what VV. Ex.s propose today is unnecessary at this time. What the sector needs is that the Government continues to support and enhance the innovative capacity of companies, which continues to invest in the modernisation of the sector, which gives businesses all the support through the administration bodies, which continue to enhance, to encourage the work of the sector's organisations. We don't need to do what's done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u123	For an intervention, Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Unlike the desirable, the dominant capitalist economic model in the world constitutes, on a larger or lesser scale, a constant threat to biodiversity and the right to adequate food for all men and women and children. Every day, we are faced with the challenge of food shortages and environmental sustainability due to the destructive impact of this economic model, including agricultural models based on intensive exploitation, the abuse of agrochemicals, deforestation, export to long distances and concentration of distribution. A recent study by the Faculty of Medical Sciences of Universidade Nova de Lisboa reported that one in five Portuguese families is currently in a food insecurity situation. Members of these families do not have access to healthy food and face serious risks of severe chronic diseases due to malnutrition. In many cases, this food insecurity is often caused and enhanced by economic difficulties, but also by the lack of information on the nutritional quality of food and the means of obtaining, transporting and packaging. The elderly are the most affected group, and also adolescents, for various reasons, but especially for economic reasons that reach these two age groups. That is why the Left Block proposed, in February last year, that a body be created, a nutritional food safety council, so that they could be concentrated, coordinated and analyzed feeding policies. It was essential that this should be the case, because we have recently seen a dispersion of casuistic policies on this subject. This resolution, submitted by the Block, was adopted at the Assembly of the Republic on 9 June 2017. Unfortunately, PSD and CDS abstained. Well, now they come back with this theme to the Assembly of the Republic. What we have to say is that they're still glad they're back. Anyway, we have to say that we cannot fully monitor the PSD and CDS projects. The PSD, after all, does not include all the entities necessary to address this issue, producers and consumers, and the CDS does not include research, nutritionists, etc. Therefore, we think that it is insufficient, that the two projects are insufficient. from our point of view, it is required that the Assembly of the Republic be informed by the Government of the measures that are actually being taken to ensure that the food and nutrition safety council is guaranteed and implemented. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u125	For a second intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: In conclusion, I would like to say to Mr Pedro do Carmo that the CDS does not propose to create anything new at all. What the CDS came here to propose was that if it were almost what already exists, and what I said — the honourable Member should not have heard or already brought the speech prepared and did not pay attention to what I said — it was that there is already a lot of information, but it is scattered and it is necessary to match the offer with the demand, that is, the offer by farmers with the search for the part of the industry, the restoration. That's what we proposed. Mr Soares, I would like to say that he should not have read our project either, because the first point in the resolution is that the Government "creates a platform for coordination of the food chain, research", and he says that the CDS does not refer to research, which leaves it out. In addition to I mentioned it in the intervention—and I gave as a very good example what INIAV did with producer organisations, with regard to boosting drought cereals and crops that can be more productive with less water— it is also provided for in the draft resolution itself. So, the gentlemen. Members will only not vote in favour if they do not want to or, then, because this is a CDS proposal, and everything that comes from the CDS is bad. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u127	For a second speech, and to conclude this debate, Mr António Ventura, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we understand each other. Portugal lives on an emergency, Portugal lives on defamatory campaigns against agri-food, defamatory campaigns without scientific support, articulated campaigns and proposed against food. [[PS laughter.]] Mr. Carlos César is laughing, but he seems to be going to vote against an initiative that is in favour of the largest agricultural production of the Azores, which is milk production. So you don't defend the Azores anymore! [[PSD applause.]] You should not laugh, you should be ashamed of the way you will vote. [[PS laughter.]] Mr. Carlos César, you, obviously, can only vote against, and you know why? [[At this moment, the speaker posted two news reports.]] by the results of the Azores : Azorians are the worst in school dropout. Another news reports that the Azorians are the biggest in drunkenness and cocaine. And you're responsible for it! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] [[PS laughter.]] Don't laugh at the misfortune of others, at the misfortune that you left in the Azores! On top of it, you will vote against the initiative! [[PS protests.]] I would like to tell you, continuing on, that Portugal was the country where the consumption of milk fell most in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u129	Because people want it that way!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u130	In 2017, milk consumption declined 1000 l per month, which means in 2016 and 2017 a negative impact of around 13 million euros on producers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u131	Because people want it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u132	In other words, these negative, defamatory campaigns do not only affect producers, but they also attack Portugal, and that is what needs to be said. These campaigns attack the economy and growth of Portugal, and against that we will never surrender. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] We will not surrender to demagogy, we will not surrender to populism, we will never surrender to this way of action, which negatively affects Portugal. That is what is at stake today: there are those who want the good of Portugal and those who want the evil of Portugal and who, out of jealousy, do not approve these initiatives. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u133	And with this apothetic conclusion of the third point of our agenda, we will continue, moving to the fourth point, which consists in the discussion of draft resolution No 1266 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the termination of the Universal Postal Service contract by notifying CTT — Correios de Portugal, SA, of serious non-compliance ( BE ), together with in general draft law No 780 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the recovery regime for the public control of CTTs ( CCPs ) and with draft resolution No 1342 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reversion of privatisation of TTC(The Greens ). To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u134	Mr President, Mr Heitor Sousa had a slight delay on arrival, so I would ask you to move on to the next parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u135	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Mr Bruno Dias, who is present and available to present the legislative initiative of the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation of the CTT company and the public mail service continues to deteriorate to an increasingly unsustainable point. After all that has happened, there are now new threats of closures, agencies, dismantling of the postal service. We have to say "that's enough! » and put a final point in this unqualifying operation that is being developed. In recent months, the struggle of workers and populations has placed at the centre of national life the need for the defence of postal public service and CTT. from here we greet the workers and the people in struggle, by their persistent and combative action, by the numerous initiatives, from north to south of the country, against the closure of post stations, against the degradation of postal service, against the privatization and the public management of TTCs. We also welcome the national event promoted by the organizations representing the workers of the TTCs, which will take place tomorrow in Lisbon. It is with this struggle and with this requirement of a concrete, true, consequent response that brings the TTCs back to the public sphere, that the country will recover the postal services as a strategic tool for economics and development. It will be necessary to rebuild public postal service, reopen post stations, strengthen the operational structure, recruit workers and guarantee their rights, working conditions and future. Bringing the TTCs back to the public sector is today an indisputable issue, and it will continue to put itself, as some try to ignore it, and from there it will have to advance the work of reconstruction of the public service. We reaffirm: we cannot agree that the way in this matter is to withdraw the public mail service to CTTs and then try to do whatever it is. This discussion should not be about rescue points or contractual kidnapping. What needs to be rescued is the company as a whole. The central problem of the postal services is not the concession, it is the privatization, and it was indeed a crime to privatize the PSD/CDS Government. But this decision, as history has shown at other times at the national and international level, cannot and cannot be irreversible, especially when the recovery of public control of TTCs is the only possibility that the country has to ensure, in the present and in the future, the universal postal service. The recovery of public control of TTCs is an objective whose implementation should involve the weighting of the various possible options for the process to be developed. We do not speak of a sudden act, we speak of a process, but of a process that cannot be dragged. To delay, delay, ignore the fundamental issue, which is the decision on the control of the company, is to be consistent with the interests of the large economic groups. Also in this area, what is increasingly necessary and urgent is to give priority to the public interest and national interest, not to the interests of the economic power. Once again, we stress: it is a national imperative, sovereignty, cohesion and social justice that initiates the process of regaining control and management of the universal postal service by the State, through the reversal of the privatization of TTCs. This is the purpose of this legislative initiative of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u137	Now, yes, to present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What the Left Block defends with this draft resolution is very clear—if the state, that is, we all want to stop immediately the pillage that the private administration is doing to the assets of the CTTs, the Government must assume its responsibilities and notify the current Board of Directors of serious non-compliance with the concession contract and move forward to a process of termination of the contract. In the short term, a new administration may be appointed which blocks all measures aimed at the destruction of TTCs and defends the primacy of the public interest in its activity. Serious breach is closing mail stations and thus accentuate the process of degradation of the provision of public mail service. If we are to ask the populations who are already experiencing the closure of their mail station, there is not one person who does not confirm this degradation. In terms of postal distribution, daily mail delivery has ended and, in rural areas, mail is delivered only once or twice a week, increasing the isolation of the most vulnerable populations and exacerbating the problem of abandonment of the territory. There are pensioners who despair with the delay in the pension valleys. The weaker population is more abandoned! The alleged maintenance of postal service quality by replacing mail stations is a fraud of the current private administration of TTCs and constitutes a serious setback in the degree of territorial coverage of services and the postal distribution network, in many cases being an unacceptable blackmail on the authorities, who are forced to have no alternative than to receive in their premises such "posts" under the penalty of public service cannot be provided. Therefore, we reaffirm: closing a station that is a serious breach. The State is the grantor of this contract and has legal means at its disposal to prevent it. Serious non-compliance is to announce the dismissal of 800 workers in the postal distribution area and thus accentuate the process of degradation of the provision of public postal services. Knowing that mail distribution has already reached levels of degradation never experienced before, continuing on this path is a serious breach of the concession contract. The State is the grantor of this contract and has legal means at its disposal to resolve it. Serious breach is to be complicit with the decapitalisation process of TTCs that this private administration is doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u140	In 2016, the distribution of dividends called into question the company's reserves and EUR 70 million was distributed to shareholders, plus EUR 8 million more than the actual profits. This succession of management decisions, which set up a process of decapitalisation of TTCs, has also materialized in the disposal of assets, particularly high-value buildings: EUR 25 million with the sale of the former headquarters building in Lisbon, which will stop at the stock exchanges of shareholders. The CTTs made profit before privatization, they continue to give, but the greed of private shareholders is destroying them. In the public sphere, TTCs will continue to be profitable and capable of ensuring a fundamental public service and the presence of the State throughout the national territory. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: BE argues, here and now, that the Government should do what is provided for in the concession contract itself, i.e. a notification for serious non-compliance, which allows it to initiate the process of termination of the concession, without the need for any compensation to the concessionaire and with a reversal to the State of all means affected by the postal service, including its heritage and workers. I stress what is in the concession contract itself: a reversal to the State of all means affected by the postal network of mails, including their heritage and workers. This decision is urgent, because TTCs are being drained into their logistical, human and financial resources. If privatization was an error with too much costs, watching the destruction of TTCs is now not an option.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u142	The Government must recover TTCs for the public sphere as soon as possible. The strike of tomorrow, which we welcome and to which we lend total solidarity, is another sign that the government cannot ignore. Portugal needs a public postal service that responds to the population and that is why we recommend that the government immediately notify the company...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u143	And the Bureau recommends that the honourable Member conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u144	... serious breach of the contract to grant universal postal service and, through its termination, recovers TTCs to the public sphere. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u145	To present the Greens' legislative initiative, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that everyone here will say — and this is, in particular, heard from the speeches on this subject — that postal service is essential. But it is then the practical policy and options that each party takes on this matter that will determine whether it is in fact essential for its respective parties and for the policies that it pursues. The PSD/CDS Government has taken a very clear option: to complete the process of privatization of TTCs. To this end, it soon took a set of measures that promoted the degradation of services and the dismantling of the company. What was important was to end this privatisation process, and it should be said, moreover, that this obsession with privatizations by PSD/CDS was not summed up, solely and exclusively, to these services. in this sense, we need to point out that we were before a company that gave guaranteed profits to the state and was then sold at a balance price, a real shame to the country and a government and political option that was very disadvantageous to the interests of the country and to the Portuguese. Also say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this constant degradation of the public postal service was absolutely notorious, particularly by the closure of hundreds of stations — since the privatization of TTCs was closed more than one hundred stations — by the dismissal of workers, by the increase of precarious links, by waiting times for service, which clearly increased, by the lack of money available at the stations for pension payments and other social benefits, by the generalization of situations where mail is no longer distributed daily, finally, a number of situations that we could mention here to prove what I refer to in relation to the degradation of the service. But to this degradation of service there is still to be added the increase in tariffs — since privatisation more than 50 % have already risen. Conclusion: The result of this privatization was the destruction of the service. Citizens pay more and the offer of service is lower, while workers have seen their working conditions suffer a substantial setback. As if this were not enough, the CTT Administration announced the intention to end more than 800 jobs in the operational area, the closure of more 22 mail stations and the sale of more assets. That is what the Greens consider to be a real shame! By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Members of those parties who are always filling the talks with the matter of territorial cohesion and with the need to combat regional asymmetries, see well what this can result in terms of a greater regional asymmetry in the country. That is why people are unhappy, and rightly so, as it is obvious. In fact, when the objective of CTT is currently unique and exclusively, distributing dividends by shareholders, it is well understood that the direction cannot be positive. Moreover, this is the goal of privatization: to manage companies based on profit and what shareholders put in the pocket rather than at the service of the territory and populations. That is why — and I shall conclude, Madam President — that the Greens come today to the Assembly of the Republic to present a draft resolution for the Government to initiate the process of revamping the privatisation of TTCs so that its management will return to the sphere of State. One last word to vehemently welcome the struggle of the workers of the CTTs and also of the populations, who have committed themselves to closing the counters of the CTTs. It is not to remove the balconies from the territory nor to reduce the number of workers that the postal service can improve. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u147	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two realities that are repeated in this debate, one of which is the breakdown of traditional mail and the other of the company's restructuring plans which, according to the company, adapt to this new reality of universal postal mail or postal service. Therefore, this reality is not new and all that I heard from the left and extreme left benches is exactly what has been heard for decades. They'll say it's not true, but just look at the statistics. Thus, this reality happened when the company was public and this did not prevent layoffs, closures and even the quality of the service was never so low and this reality remains now that the company is private. Conclusion to be taken: it is not from the public or private nature of the company that comes the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u149	When she was public, they were preparing to privatize her!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u150	The problem was another one, and that's what we should be here discussing. The universal postal service is well defined in the concession contract, or is it not? With this amendment, does the company have the conditions to fulfil the contract, or is it not? Do the regulator and the government have the capacity and instruments to enforce the agreement and concession contract, ensuring reliability, secrecy, geographical dispersion of the universal postal service, or not? The Government has an idea of what the new universal postal service agreement or contract will have to negotiate in a short time to ensure what the left and the CDS claim—and well! — what is a universal postal service suitable for reality, reliable, in time, with secrecy and reaching the largest number of people and quickly? So that was the discussion we should be having, but we are not. Yes, we are tearing our clothes with ideological claims that the state manages better and that what we want is to reverse. But this is not new: if there are problems in transport, it is nationalized, and transport problems get worse; if there are problems in telecommunications, a reversal is made and back into the public sphere, and the problems get worse; if there are problems in TTCs, they say 'it is very short just to go there'. In fact, it does not stop being curious that not only the legislative initiatives under discussion say nothing about the quality of the service, about the protection of the company, about the protection of workers, about the viability of the business, how even management does something even more serious: it is causing irreversible damage to a legislative instrument that was very useful, which are the draft resolutions. [[PCP protests.]] A few months ago, we discussed draft resolutions of the Left Block, of the PCP, of the Ecological Party « The Greens » and also of the PS... In addition, this time, the PCP presents a bill. Badly done out if the im wasn't! It is that unions make a petition that says exactly the same as the PCP bill. The PCP, not wanting to stay behind the unions, goes there and advances with a bill. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Mr Bruno Dias didn't read what the unions said? Trade unions say: « State control of TTCs is urgent». Have you read the petition? Just say that. So I realize, and I do not do wrong, that the CFP is aligned with the unions on this matter. However, the honourable Members. Members have once and for all to prevent legislative initiatives from coming down to the Commission without a vote, because otherwise this instrument serves only as a post-it, serves to signal the problem, serves as an excuse or serves as a recognition of disability. Therefore, the question arises for the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u151	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u152	I will finish, Madam President. Whether or not the Socialist Party is ordering its government partners,... [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] ... whether or not the Socialist Party will allow it to degrade the service, which degrades the company? The Socialist Party cannot leave here today without saying whether it votes against or in favour. I now say our position: we shall vote against it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u153	We will continue with the interventions. Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party, I begin by expressing something which seems very important to me, which is a huge concern about the degradation of the services provided by the TTCs and, at the same time, also on this line, I express concern for some measures which the company has taken and which may in any way call into question the density of the TTC network. Mrs. Members, as you know, contrary to what Mr Hélder Amaral said, the CTTs, until their privatisation, were one of the most renowned services in Europe, and that was accepted by all. In addition, TTCs were a profitable company distributing each year dividends to the State. These are the facts. Unfortunately, the PSD and CDS government made the wrong decision, which seems to us to be more or less obvious: it decided to privatize, in whole, the TTCs, and to do so as a whole without being obliged to do so, giving the argument that this was included in the Memorandum of Troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u155	And he was!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u156	I wasn't! The Memorandum only provided partial and non-total privatizations. More: at the time the PSD/CDS government decided to privatize the CTTs, there was an objective of obtaining revenues with the privatisation of EUR 5000 million and at that time that objective was already achieved. Therefore, it was not obligatory for this privatisation to be carried out, as you have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u157	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u158	It was because of privatizing TTCs that we not only lost annual revenues due to the lack of dividends, but also saw a gradual deterioration of services. It is therefore enough to look at the complaints that run between 2015 and 2017, for example, from 6890 to almost 10 000 in 2017. Mrs. From our point of view, it is unwise to promote the cannibalization of legislative production. And I say this because it is not only incomprehensible to the Portuguese, nor is it effective for what we want. Like all of you. Members know, it was approved in this House at the end of last year, a draft resolution aimed at setting up a working group to assess these issues and to find policy solutions and guidelines that would enable the Portuguese to solve, for the benefit of the Portuguese, the problems that TTCs have been demonstrating. The Government, in turn, has already informed that this working group has been set up, is already in office and that the conclusions will be presented in due course as soon as they are completed. Therefore, the way in which these proposals are being submitted ends up killing what has been approved in this House relatively recently. On the other hand, as you are also aware, ANACOM (National Communications Authority) has demonstrated — and has already demonstrated — in the Assembly of the Republic — that it intends to strengthen the terms of the supervision of the contract, not only by increasing the indicators that allow such supervision, but also by deepening the criteria for such supervision. from the point of view of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, it takes time and avoid skipping the steps that have already been decided in this House. It is true that parties have all the legitimacy to present the diplomas they have presented, but we consider that they clearly appear at the wrong time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u159	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u160	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As you all know, it is Thursday and Thursday is one of the days of the week...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u161	On Thursday, the Avante leaves!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u162	... where the PCP and the Block are part of the opposition. When there is a budget, they will be voting meekly, but for now they are a noisy opposition. Madam President, our most radical left-wings bring us today, in coherence, also a radical proposal: the reversal of the privatisation of TTCs, the public control of TTCs or, to the limit, the termination of the postal service contract. It's no less than this. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is polluted by lies and contradictions. The first lie is that there is a serious breach of the postal service contract. That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u163	Isn't that true? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u164	Second lie: it is said that there is no density of the postal network and minimum supply of services. There is an independent supervisory body, called ANACOM, which categorically rejects this expression. Third lie: it mentions failure to comply with the parameters of service. The President of ANACOM, here in our presence, expressly concerned about this, said that the TTCs are meeting the quality of service parameters. Well, exhausted the lies, let's move on to the truth. The Post Offices of Portugal were, for tens and dozens of years, our Facebook, our social network, because it was where Portuguese communities, through the post office, access information about their neighbours and their land. But the world has changed, changed a lot, entered the digital channel, the Internet, the mobile. If we take into account that the density of the targeted postal service has decreased in the last 15 years to less than half, we must realize that CTTs today face serious difficulties and great challenges. The CTT situation is not a chaos, but it is also far from being a paradise. For this reason a restructuring plan was presented to us in Parliament which recommends the creation of a working group by the Government. The truth is that there is still no application of the plan, there is still no result of the working group and the PCP, the Bloc and The Greens want to decree the end of the game at the interval, a sort of judgment without trial. They decree: “Revert now! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And then? “ Then you see! ' — they will say. at the moment, what is causing, more than anything else, is the fact that the CFP and the Bloc intend to make the CTTs another Autoeuropa, in a highly irresponsible exercise of political struggle in which the first victims are the 12,000 workers of the CTTs, which are not reflected in this procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u166	CTTs need to react and implement reforms to meet challenges, and these reforms involve their workers, involve the autoarchs and involve the populations. We have no expectations of the extreme left and its purely ideological shell of all that smells of private, but of the PS we expect coherence, respect for the truth and sense of responsibility. We will continue to denounce this dangerous path of surrender to minorities, who want to revert to the past, thereby compromising the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u167	Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, finished exactly when the Bureau was going to call him in order to complete his intervention. For a second speech, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Hélder Amaral is right. The year in which the Posts had the worst services and the worst quality of the postal service, in terms of closures, etc. , it was precisely in 2012, when they were under public administration but with this administration. The record year of closing mail stations was with this administration, which was preparing for the privatisation that you have decreed. That's why we say this wasn't done in a day or a year. It is a long process, in which many governments helped prepare the crime that was done in 2013 already by your government. Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, when he tells us that quality standards are being met and that the concession contract is being respected, the problem is not that they have forgotten to warn people — those who do not receive mail, those who wait two weeks for the retirement pension, those who fight against the closure of the mail stations — that is all right and everything is being accomplished, people do not have mail. People do not know that the quality standard is being fulfilled because the letter that would warn them has not yet arrived!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u169	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u170	That is why we continue to appeal to the honourable Members. Members who agree on what is happening and who are no longer in theory, because practice in the field confirms the CFP alert. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem was not to have privatised the postal services in a moment, or once, in whole or in part, the problem was the private management and the degradation resulting from these policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u171	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u172	I shall finish, Madam President, by saying that this option of letting go of time and of letting burn then discussing ashes is not good advisor, and we must stop and reverse that option. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u173	That concludes this item on our agenda. We will continue with the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 743 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a minimum period of 120 days for the provision of digital forms of liability of the Tax Authority ( CDS-PP ). To present this initiative, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today a bill in order to solve a chronic tax administration problem, which is explained in a simple way. As we know, the State requires taxpayers to pay taxes. Both for the calculation of the amount of these taxes and for other purposes, the State also imposes on citizens and businesses providing certain information to the tax. Today, this is done online, via the Internet, on the computer. However, unlike the so-called facilities and simplifications we see in the Simplex, it is often impossible for taxpayers, especially SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) and accountants, to do so, for the simple reason that the tax administration does not have online forms to which it requires citizens to fill out. The same state which imposes and fines on citizens and companies who delay in fulfilling their obligations is systematically the first to delay and fail to comply. The confusion is established and everything is done at the last hour and with extensions of time to be decided on a case-by-case basis. The problem is old, chronic, has crossed several governments and has been particularly visible, for example in the famous model 22, which is the declaration regarding IRC, but not only. We therefore propose a simple, fair and effective solution: tax administration forms must be available online 120 days before the end of the deadline that taxpayers have to comply with. Contributors can use these four months to fill out the declarations. If the State is delayed, then the deadline for the taxpayer to meet is also delayed in exactly the same number of days. As I said, it is a simple, just and effective solution. We just want to. Sometimes it is not the strongest or most extraordinary measures, but rather the most surgical measures that make the difference in people's concrete life, in the case, in the concrete life of thousands of companies, thousands of SMEs and accountants, who every day create jobs, create wealth and, above all, create revenue for the state with their taxes. The least that the State can do for them is apply to itself the same rule that requires citizens and taxpayers. This principle is like our solution: simple, fair and effective. We just want to, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u175	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u176	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: Less than a month ago, the Assembly of the Republic adopted a draft resolution of the CFP recommending that the Government — and I quote — « the rapid completion of the review process of the fiscal calendar, reorganizing the delivery times of the different tax declarations and defining appropriate conditions for the availability of the applications for the completion and submission of these declarations, in order to overcome the recurrent problems identified by organizations and associations of accounting professionals ». A few days later, at the regimental hearing of the Minister of Finance, the CFP raised the issue of the implementation of this Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, with the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs informed that it was only awaiting the completion of the electoral process in the Order of Certified Accountants to move forward with the review of the fiscal schedule, including the question of the deadline for the provision of digital forms.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u177	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u178	It is in this context that a proposal from the CDS to fix a minimum time limit for the provision of these digital forms arises. We have no objection to this proposal, which, in fact, has its origin in certified accountants, but we believe that it should be considered not in isolation and, rather, inserted in a process of global reorganization of the fiscal calendar that this response to all the problems identified over the years. Its isolated consideration, as the CDS proposes, even poses a problem of enforceability. Is the CDS in a position to ensure that this proposal considered alone can be implemented by the Tax Authority ( AT )? Or will it, on the contrary, require its link with changing other aspects of the fiscal calendar? It is on the basis of these considerations that we are in favour of the inadmissible need for a reorganization of the timetable that addresses in an integrated way the numerous problems identified over the years and which deeply affect certified accountants. It was to this end that we gave a decisive impetus to the process of reorganisation of the fiscal calendar and that process must be completed by the government, with speed as reflected in the draft resolution of the CFP approved by this House less than a month ago. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS, while in the government, could, if it wished, have solved the many problems of the fiscal calendar, including the problem that today brings here the debate. I could have resolved, but I did not want, and now, which is in the opposition, to make you forget this option, without hesitation, to achieve this end, in proposing today what you rejected in the past. This CDS stance doesn't surprise us. It is a common practice in a party that used to say something in opposition and do its opposite when it assumes government responsibilities. [[Congrats from PS MP João Galamba.]] We are forced to conclude - because this is the only possible conclusion - that this legislative initiative of the CDS aims not to solve the problems of certified accountants, but only the whitening of their options while they were in government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u179	For an intervention by the Socialist Party, Mr Ricardo Leon has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS Parliamentary Group, either through the hearings it has made, either by suggestions sent by certified associations or groups of accountants, who legitimately send their opinions to the public, but also by the Order of the Certified Accountants themselves, recognizes the difficulties faced by accountants, taxpayers and companies due to the delay in making available the digital forms that have to be filled out. However, it is also important to say that this problem is not now, that there has been a long time ago and has never been solved and that, even during the four and a half years of the previous government, the PSD and the CDS, nothing has been done to solve it. We have already said very recently, here in plenary, at the time of discussion of a petition signed by more than 70 000 certified accountants, and of the PCP draft resolution on these matters, that the PS Parliamentary Group believes that this lack of timely availability of electronic forms and applications, by the AT generates an imbalance in the state/contributor relationship. We therefore want to emphasize the current government's decision to assess the current deadlines set separately in the code and possible incongruences, together with the Order of the Certified Accountants and the AT itself to submit a proposal for reorganization of the fiscal calendar, as well as the request by the Government to the Tax Authority to identify times of overload of the system resulting from the overlap of the terms of the deadlines more than one declarative obligation, in order to prepare this reorganization work. in this sense, this draft law of the CDS-PP, which proposes the establishment of the minimum period of 120 days for the provision of digital forms of liability of the AT, recognizing the measure and the goodwill for its resolution, is no more than a use of the work already done by the current government in the resolution of these matters, but above all, in the assumption and a clear confession of the CDS-PP of the previous government's inertia in presenting measures for its resolution. Regardless of the fact that the application of this measure blinds in some cases it is technically impossible for the AT to provide certain reporting models with such an extended advance, it is important to initiate a process of hearing certified accountants, companies, their associations and the Order of the Certified Accountants themselves, but also — and very important — to wait for the results of the work carried out between the Government, the Tax Authority and the Order of the Certified Accountants, for the purpose of the application of serious measures, for a fair reorganization of the tax calendar, in order to balance the State/contributor relationship, in the normal fulfilment of the tax obligations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u181	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal which the CDS brings here, which was presented by a group of accountants, is inserted in a set of proposals aimed at reorganizing the fiscal calendar, proposals which this Parliamentary Group is considering to study the best way to host them. Although it is an isolated proposal, we do not fail to follow up because we find the rule that it is introduced to safeguard a minimum period between the time when the tools are made available to meet the tax obligations and the deadline for compliance with them. It is essential, it brings stability to the fiscal calendar and brings predictability for people's lives—from accountants and taxpayers. These factors of computer tools, stability of the fiscal calendar, are also part of the fiscal stability that is often claimed in this House. The problem is not new, it is widely diagnosed and it is already many years old. Today, the CDS brings this proposal, but the fact is that, as mentioned above, it has had the protection of this sector in the previous government, so it has been privileged to demand that the Tax Authority now demand rigour. As Mrs Cecilia Meireles said, and because it is a simple measure, the Tax Authority could very well be applying the rigour that is now claimed without the need for a law imposing it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u183	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u184	It is true that there are technical issues that need to be guarded, but these issues are not just on the side of the tax administration. There are also technical problems on the taxpayers' side, on the accountants' side,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u186	...and here we must seek a balanced solution that saves everyone's interests in order not to always be the accountants to have to adjust their calendar, their lives to the contingencies of the tax machine.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u188	Therefore, there are technical difficulties and there are human difficulties. These technical issues should probably be evaluated at another time. When the legislative amendments which have an impact on tax declarations are approved, the assessment must be made at this time: what is the time needed, what consequences will there be for these computer tools, what will be the time needed for their implementation, to be tested and, where appropriate, postpone the entry into force of these legislative proposals to end this instability, especially in the life of the accountants. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u189	Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « Nothing is more true in this world than death and taxes». This is an English proverb of universal application, but it well defines the importance of taxation in people's lives. It is therefore essential to preserve their rights, at a time when the Tax Authority has capacity, scrutiny and investigates the lives of its citizens. The paradigm in the past was a human mission: documents delivered on paper, with manual tax calculation and supervision centered on compliance with the obligation to deliver declarations. With technological developments in the most recent times, the administration has become a powerful intrusion machine that cannot be allowed to operate in the free will of those who direct it. Even tax administration workers are not at stake, but on the contrary, they are also victims of the system. It has moved on to a system of high complexity of computer procedures to which it is necessary to provide adequate answers. There must be a balanced relationship of duties and rights between tax administration and citizens, requiring equal rigour and demand from both parties; there must be a reduction in the cost of fulfilling obligations; there must be a way to facilitate the fulfilment of obligations; there must be a way of tasks having a predictability framework that enables the required work to be scheduled in advance. The efficiency and efficiency of the tax machine must have benefits for citizens and cannot only work for the benefit of the tax-paying State. The citizen can never fail, for the citizen, all rigour, but the State always has the possibility to change the rules of the game, whether the amendments to the rules themselves or the extension of deadlines for its own benefit. Citizens cannot be at a disadvantage. For example, the Government informed the Assembly of the Republic, in August of last year, that it was — and I quote — « to prepare reorganization work which should allow a new fiscal calendar to be established from 1 January 2018 ». However, that purpose did not go beyond good intentions. There are months with very strong concentration of tasks that require intense work that is not facilitated by the lack of response of the service. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is urgent that the financial platform provide the tools and tools that enable citizens in general and accounting professionals in particular to manage, in a programmed manner, the accounting activity, reporting and multiple reporting obligations to which they are required. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u191	For a new intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I use the word again only to answer some of the objections that have been put here. It was said here that the project generates an imbalance. The fact that tax administration applies to itself the same rules that it requires of taxpayers is, from the viewpoint of the Socialist Party, an imbalance. Mr. Ricardo Leon, it is an objection of principle. For us, imbalance is the tax administration not to have the decency to apply to itself the same rules that it requires of taxpayers. in the same way that it is also unacceptable, from our point of view, to say that it is technically impossible to make available in this advance. Mr President, if it is technically impossible for the tax administration to make the form available in advance, then it is technically impossible for the taxpayer and for these professionals to have time to complete it properly. These proposals — in fact, many others that the CDS has been making repeatedly — are the result of the contribution of many professionals, but, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that there are more problems and that this is another one in a sea of problems. And we do not know the question of the fiscal calendar, it is unfortunate that the CFP, when the CDS began to present proposals on this matter, had not been so quick to approve them as it was to present theirs. But it's okay, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. What's important is we solve a problem. If they want to adopt the project and sign yours, there is no strict problem for us since they solve the problem to the citizens. It is said that recommendations are made to the Government, which says that it will comply and that it will not then fulfil, making promises that are not fulfilled, we do not want it to serve as an excuse not to solve this problem today. This is the chance, we just want to. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u193	Mrs. Members, we thus conclude the general discussion of draft law No 743 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ). We now move on to the next point in the order of business, with the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 591 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Determines the application of the EPAL Business Agreement to all employees of companies established under Decree-Law No 34 / 2017 of 24 March ( PCP ). To present the bill, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to address a very special compliment to the workers and representatives of the workers of EPAL, Simarsul and the waters of the Atlantic Teas, who are present today, to attend this debate. The CFP today presents an initiative dealing with workers' rights and the right to collective bargaining. The application of collective labour regulation instruments is a right of workers and a duty of the employer, which is why the CFP argues that all workers who become part of the LSP should be included within the scope of the company agreement. PSD and CDS have imposed a water sector restructuring model in accordance with the interests of the economic groups, which see in the water more a business and profit-making commodity and not a right that has to be guaranteed to everyone. This restructuring model did not safeguard the public interest and had strong opposition from workers, populations and authorities. When the company was created Waters of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, by the merger of eight multi-municipal systems and the integration of EPAL, the rights of workers were not protected. EPAL was assigned the management of the system and assumed the contractual position in the employment contracts and staff transfer agreements, covering its workers and about 900 workers from other entities, including those of the already self-sustained companies, in particular the workers of Simarsul and the company Waters of the Atlantic Tejo. It makes no sense that the EPAL Business Agreement is not applied to all workers whose management and contractual position was assumed by EPAL. Inequalities between rights and working conditions are demanding, in particular with regard to wages, working hours, holidays, food allowance, transport allowance, prevention allowance, among others. We cannot accept that workers who have the same functions, the same responsibilities, are paid to one of them the meal allowance at 4, 77 € and to others is paid at 6 € or 7 € or, then, that workers are entitled to transport allowance and others are not and that some workers have to do 35 hours of work and another 40 hours of work. With regard to the right to collective bargaining, the Government can and should set an example in the guarantee of a fundamental right and, indeed, put an end to this opportunity here in the Assembly of the Republic, today, for this unequal treatment and for these unequal working conditions among workers, because there is no justification for this. The CFP brought this proposal to debate, giving concrete translation to the demands of workers of EPAL, Simarsul and waters of the Atlantic Tejo. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Assembly of the Republic can take a significant step in guaranteeing the right to collective recruitment of these workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u195	For an intervention, by the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : First of all, the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block also welcomes the workers who are attending this debate and congratulates the Portuguese Communist Party for the presentation of this bill, which aims, very basically, to restore justice for workers and workers who have been integrated into the EPAL but who do not yet have all their rights guaranteed. The history of EPAL and the merger of the various companies already mentioned is just one of many other stories during the governance of PSD and CDS: the use of all kinds of strategies to benefit the profits of few at the cost of public service, at the expense of workers and at the cost of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u198	In the specific case, one of the major problems is exactly the void of labour rights to which workers who came from other companies were voted. It is certain that, theoretically, the application of the EPAL business agreement should have been extended to workers of the other entities whose management was taken over by it, that is not what happened in practice. Therefore, even today, many workers continue without their guaranteed rights. Although Decree-Law No. 34 / 2017 assumes the employment contracts for EPAL, its application has not been carried out at this specific point, making many workers more unprotected, performing functions equal to those of other colleagues, for example, without the same maturity, there is differentiation in the payment of certain wages, such as food allowance and others, and without, in fact, access to the company agreement, as was supposed and was provided for in the legislation. The Left Block has accompanied the situation with representative workers' organisations and has already pressured the Ministry of Labour with a view to solving the problem, specifically for example the workers of the former West Waters, where more than 20 are still in a situation of inequality before EPAL workers, and there is a failure to comply with labour rights. But in all the other companies we still find situations of inequality and non-compliance, which is not understandable. Now, with a view to the replacement of justice and the application of all rights to all workers, we will vote in favour of this bill. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u199	Also for an intervention by the PSD, Mrs Susana Lamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Communist Party took the initiative to present Bill No. 591 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), determining the application of the EPAL Business Agreement to all employees of companies established under Decree-Law No 34 / 2017 of 24 March. The application of this Agreement by legal means to the companies of the Waters Group of Portugal is at issue here. It should be noted that the Water Group of Portugal consists of 12 different companies, and these companies, although they are part of a group which has a set of common policies and shared services, each have their own concession contract, their own tariff and independent regulations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u201	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u202	We are talking about companies that are not held 100 % by the State, because substantial part of their capital is variable but is, as a rule, 49 % owned by the municipalities. In fact, the only company held 100 % by the State is EPAL. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, will the Assembly of the Republic, by law, impose the EPAL business agreement on these companies, disregarding the constitutional principle of local power autonomy? Oh, my God! Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the Communist Party wants by law is to impose on the administrations of these companies and municipalities the EPAL business agreement, when in fact the proximity is greater among all multi-municipal and partnership systems than with EPAL business agreement. More, sirs. Members : do you want the Portuguese Communist Party to make a table of the negotiating process that is under way? Oh, my God! And I put this question because at the hearing that took place in the Committee on the Environment last 21 Tuesday we heard the President of the Waters Group of Portugal say — and I quote: "We have trade unions sitting at the negotiating table and we hope that the next six months will be very important so that we can define a business agreement for those who are not covered". So the Communist Party wants to impose an agreement on the parties involved in the negotiations? Oh, my God! [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u203	The gentlemen. Members of the Communist Party want to disregard the trade unions of the UGT and the CGTP, who are already sitting at the negotiating table? Oh, my God! We want VV. Ex. disrespecting the principle of free collective bargaining? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is and has always been sensitive to labour issues,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u204	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u205	... in particular the issues of differences in the treatment of workers, but we are also defenders of both the autonomy of local power and the free collective bargaining. [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] And these companies, as well as their workers, must be able to negotiate their collective work agreement freely and responsibly and thus achieve what is most appropriate to their rights and interests. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u206	You're an artist!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u207	Even for an intervention by the Socialist Party, Mrs Eurídice Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by making a point of order: The current government programme, approved in this House, provides for the relaunch of social dialogue and sectoral collective bargaining, including in the public sector. This is a compromise which has been fulfilled through various measures, which is an example of the guarantee of extension ports within a maximum of 35 days, when the average time of publication was 146 days earlier. This new climate of respect for social dialogue and collective bargaining ensured that between 2016 and 2017 more than 1 million workers were covered by collective regulatory instruments, ensuring that about 600 000 workers were guaranteed an average increase of their orders by 2, 6 %. With the State Budget for 2018, which establishes the end of the limitation of wage increases, this impetus in collective bargaining in the private sector can now be monitored in the public sector, especially in the business sector of the State. In this way, the Government fulfils one of the measures in the Joint Positions signed by the Socialist Party with BE, with the CFP and with the Greens, in particular the fulfilment of the right to collective bargaining in the Public Administration. By action of the Government, supported by the left-wing majority, work negotiations are currently taking place in the central state, but also in companies in the state business sector. As these collective negotiations are taking place in EPAL and trade unions and administration, of good faith, to promote social dialogue and to rebuild the climate of confidence needed for labour negotiations, the Socialist Party considers it prudent that there are no legislative decisions that amputate the agreements that are now being built and that will benefit and value workers. The CFP, when presenting the bill today under review, can consider, and we are sure that by good faith, it is benefiting workers, but this result can and should be achieved by the ongoing negotiations between the administration of EPAL and the representatives of its workers, with a view to ensuring an enabling environment in this and other companies, to future beneficial agreements for workers and their companies. The Socialist Party does not agree with a 'parliamentation' of labour relations, until this would lead to a closure of the spaces for dialogue between companies and their workers and what we want is to extend social dialogue and promote and support free collective bargaining as a way to maximize the valorisation of Portuguese workers, thereby ensuring the increase in the productivity of our workers and businesses, in a scenario where the parties find the best balance. I cannot fail to mention at the end of this speech that in this Parliament the maximum value has been given to the water sector either by ensuring the principle of non- privatization of the sector, or by the reversal of the model that had been implemented by the previous PSD/CDS Government. And this is not a small thing anymore! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u209	Mr Álvaro Castello-White now has the floor for an intervention by the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: contrary to what the left parties repeatedly claim, the restructuring of the Waters of Portugal, carried out by the previous Government, created more equitable and larger multi-municipal systems, which, on the one hand, allowed for efficiency gains and reduced operational costs and, on the other hand, introduced greater equity in the various systems. It was not intended to serve any economic groups, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was intended to serve the people better. It was intended to ensure, in matters as essential as water supply, sanitation and waste management, social and territorial cohesion, economic and financial sustainability and environmental protection. But it seems that this goes against the interests of the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u211	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u212	Bill No. 591 / XIII ( 2. a ), presented by the PCP, which we are discussing, intends to amend Decree-Law No 34 / 2017 of 24 March, in order to apply the EPAL business agreement to all workers who are part of EPAL and to the companies created under that Decree-Law No 34 / 2017, and it is certain that when EPAL incorporated the Society Waters of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, SA the management of the system and the assumption of the contractual position in the employment contracts and staff transfer agreements was delegated to it. Thus, as can be seen, these workers are not from EPAL, they took the delegated contractual position. The CDS believes that collective bargaining represents an important instrument for consultation and regulation of labour relations, which obviously has to be valued, because it is a process of approximation of wills. The dynamisation of collective bargaining must always be an essential goal to achieve, because we understand that it is through conscious negotiation between those on the ground in a given company and that it is better aware of the conditions and needs that a better solution to labour issues is achieved, and all — I repeat, everyone! — you have to win with that. Even this week we have received in the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, representatives of workers from several companies belonging to the Water Group of Portugal, in particular the EPAL, and of course we are aware of their demands. However, we believe that each Committee of Workers must do its work and follow the path of negotiation, as we realize that it has come to pass. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u213	To legislate by law the application of a company agreement to a multiplicity of different companies, historically, socially and culturally, does not seem to us to be the best way. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u214	In fact, and as always, we have the PCP, in speech, always defending collective bargaining, but in practice, with its initiatives trying to impose certain assumptions by law, leaving behind the fundamental negotiation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u215	We cannot, of course, follow this initiative. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u216	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is regrettable that the PSD comes to speak of autonomy of local democratic power when it was the PSD itself which, when it ruled, not only privatized the EGF (Environment Global Facilities) against the will of the authorities as imposed a process of restructuring in the waters, also against the will of the authorities, besides imposing a set of other measures on the authorities themselves, taking into account the framework of their autonomy. Back to the fundamental question, which is the right to collective bargaining, if there is a party that has defended collective bargaining is the CFP, which defends it here and on the side of the workers in the defence of their rights. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] What is at stake here is no interference in the collective bargaining process, it is the fact that workers of the same company, who work side by side and who have the same functions, some have food allowance with one value and others have different wages and some have transport allowance and others do not. [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] Today, what is proposed here and what the Assembly of the Republic has the opportunity to do is to guarantee all workers of this company the right to collective bargaining and to ensure that the agreement of the company applies to all. What matters today, at the end of this debate, is knowing, indeed, with whom the Socialist Party will converge in this matter, whether it is with the workers, in defending collective bargaining, or whether it is with the PSD and the CDS that, over the years and years, have not only imposed the expiry of collective bargaining as they have removed countless rights to workers themselves. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u218	Mrs. Members, having concluded this debate, we will continue with the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 542 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Create greater justice in the right to benefit from disability due to sickness or occupational accident ( The Greens ), 613 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Renews the right of civil servants to compensation for damages resulting from occupational accidents and diseases ( BE) and 779 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recomposes the possibility of the accumulation of permanent disability benefits with the proportion of remuneration corresponding to the percentage of permanent reduction of the employee's overall earning capacity ( CFP ). To present the Green Bill, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u219	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today bring to the Assembly of the Republic a bill which seeks to bring about an urgent injustice and which at the same time presents an urgent solution. The PSD/CDS government, as it is known, has launched a real persecution for public service workers. One such blow was carried out through Law No. 11/2014 which, on the pretext of establishing mechanisms of convergence of the social performance regime of the public service with the general social security regime, created profound inequalities and outrageous injustices. In the case of workers who are victims of work accidents, for example who have been permanently disabled, the PSD/CDS Government has determined that there would be no accumulation of pensions due to permanent disability — the benefit intended to compensate for the damage — with the remuneration portion corresponding to the percentage of permanent reduction in the overall capacity of the worker. Changing this for kids, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it has determined that there is no fair remedy for accidents at work. The Ombudsman has designated this situation as irreparability of the damage caused to health, body or ability to acquire gain due to accident or occupational disease. In good rigour, what the PSD/CDS government has done was to say to people: "You, or you, have had damage that we recognize. It necessarily has an increased effort, is limited in the capacity of professional evolution and, therefore, is entitled to a pension due to disability in the value of x, but does not receive it. When you retire, you will receive the pension due to disability, but if the pension exceeds that value, you will only receive the remainder! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” In other words, what you came to tell people is that you have a theoretical right—more, you have a fake right—but you will never receive compensation for the damage you have suffered. Another issue that resulted from Law No. 11 / 2014, in this concrete aspect on which The Greens intervene and for which they create a solution in their bill, was that of inequality created with the different treatment between workers in public functions and workers on behalf of others, to the detriment of the former. We are therefore ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the face of a very clear injustice, and also in this matter, it is important to do here the same work that we have successfully done in this Parliament, which is to use vehemently the verb'reverser', and thus reverse the text of the law which the PSD/CDS government has created in order to pursue and clearly harm public officials. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u220	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If a public official suffers from an accident, an accident, at his place of work, if he slips or falls from a ladder, for example, if he is severely committed to his physical capacity and, therefore, if that accident results in a permanent disability, that public official, unlike any other worker, is not entitled to repair the damage, i.e., cannot be compensated for the permanent damage he has suffered from that accident. We ask: but does the Constitution not recognize the fundamental right of workers to just repair the damage caused in these circumstances? Oh, my God! Admit it! We also ask: does the Constitution not say that equality is one of the fundamental principles? Oh, my God! In fact, it has already applied it in several cases of unconstitutionalities in the previous government. Yes, the Constitution recognises that public and private workers should have access to the same rights. So how is it possible that there is no law protecting public officials in these circumstances? Oh, my God! The truth is she exists. There is a law, which is the legal regime for accidents at work and occupational diseases that occurred at the service of public employers — Decree-Law No 503 / 99 — which recognises the right to workers, irrespective of their time of service, to have compensation in kind and in money for damage caused by accidents of service or occupational disease. The law even says how this is done: in the case of the private, it is the insurers who have to deal with this compensation; in the case of civil servants, it is the General Board of Appeals that has this responsibility. This compensation scheme was stable. It was so stable that even when the PSD and the CDS amended the General Law on Public Works in 2014, they did not touch it and referred to the pre-existing regime of 1999, all the rules on compensation for accidents at work or permanent disability. So why can't public servants be compensated? Because the former government, the PSD and the CDS, parties that have already brought us so many concerns with civil servants today, decided to make a stop to compensation for the incapacity of public officials. [[Protests by PSD Members Adam Silva and CDS-PP Antonio Carlos Monteiro.]] You have decided, by means of a trick — you must call things by names — to prevent the accumulation of the benefit to which these employees are entitled, by disability, with wages or with pensions, either retirement or retirement. In other words: it is due, but it cannot be paid. It is a perversion, because public servants who read Decree-Law No 503 / 99 verify that they are entitled to compensation, but then in Article 41. , on the accumulation of benefits, it is said that this benefit cannot be accumulated—see! — neither with wages nor with retirement pensions. I mean, she's not paid! That is, civil servants cease to have, materially, and in practice, the right which is recognised to them by the General Law on Public Works and the Constitution. The Ombudsman has already said that the consequence of this amendment is the absence of compensation for the damage. That's it, this perversion we have to correct. We must put an end to public officials and their rights, put an end to the tricks and give the Socialist Party an opportunity to correct this serious injustice that is done to public officials and also an opportunity to regret the PSD and the CDS for what they have done to public officials. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u222	For an intervention by the PCP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u223	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal that the CFP brings here ensures the replacement of a right of injured workers of the Public Administration and means the elimination of a deep injustice of the authorship of the previous Government, PSD / CDS, with the creation of Law No. 11 / 2014. The reality today is this: the workers of the Public Administration who suffer from an accident at work or who are victims of occupational disease, to whom they have been legally recognized a percentage of partial permanent incapacity for work and to whom payment of compensation has been determined due, and necessarily remitted, do not receive this compensation due to the prohibition of accumulation of this amount with their monthly remuneration. But this law has opened up other doors: it suspends the award of compensation for accidents at work or occupational disease while the worker is active, the fact is that, when the time comes for this worker to retire, there are situations in which, being paid the total compensation for the accident at work or occupational disease at the time of the reform, at the same time, he is deducted monthly from the pension due to the partial disability allocated until he reaches the total of the capital of remission paid. That is, in practice, the worker does not receive any compensation, despite having suffered an accident or occupational disease. What the PSD and CDS did with this law was, yes, fighting different incomes to cut rights. Remuneration due to workers is offset by daily work and the amount of retirement pension results from discounts made during their contribution career. Different things are just reparation for the damage caused by occupational accident or illness, which involves a prospect of compensation for loss of gain capacity, but also a compensating dimension. Access to this right cannot be conditioned by the salary received or by the value of the pension. The result is that neither when they are working nor when they are retired do they have the right to fair compensation for accidents at work or occupational disease, and these rights are denied to these workers. They are double penalized: they are victims of occupational disease or occupational accident, acquire an incapacity that often does not allow them to progress in their careers or perform other functions and are not adequately compensated for this. This is an injustice, especially felt by local government workers and security personnel, whose representative organisations have denounced and for which they have also claimed solutions. These workers are at the service of the State, have experienced accidents or have acquired occupational diseases at the service of the central and local administration. This is not an acceptable situation and requires measures to correct it, and this is what the CFP does with this proposal, defending the right of these workers to a fair and effective repair for accidents at work or occupational disease, restating it, as well as seeking solutions for those workers and reformers who have been harmed in their rights with the application of this law. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u224	Having concluded the presentations of the initiatives, Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Three bills of law, Greens, the PCP and the Left Block are being discussed today on the financial compensation relating to service accidents and occupational diseases of public officials.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u226	It's written!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u227	In their interventions, these three parties showed only one concern: point the finger to the PSD and the CDS, to the previous government, with the usual prejudices, in the background, with the tape of the custom. [[Protests by Members of the CFP Paula Santos and The Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] Now, Left Block, PCP and The Greens should know that when you point your finger at someone, there are at least three fingers that point to yourself.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u228	The honourable Member, then, has a lot of flexibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u229	In addition, it was good for the Left Block, PCP and the Greens to remember that in the debate at the heart of speciality of the State Budget for 2018, an identical proposal was presented and that the CDS voted in favour of the proposals that were put forward! [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] The proposal was not adopted only because the PS voted against. And what did the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens do? They voted in favour of the Budget. So I think it's enough to blame the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u230	That's what you guys wanted!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u231	If you have to point your finger at someone, put it on your government, your partner, the PS. And now you know that the three fingers point to the Block, to the PCP and to The Greens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u232	You must have hands with interdigital membranes, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u233	... because you approved the Budget, where there was a proposal for an amendment that solved this same problem. And the CDS voted for your proposal, if you remember. It is true that the Ombudsman has already spoken on this matter and has drawn attention to potential situations of injustice, but it is also true that the Constitutional Court found that there was no unconstitutionality, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, the CDS has no prejudice, in particular your prejudice, which is to vote against the proposals only because they are proposals from the CDS, and therefore we will not have any problem in resolving this situation, beyond the difficult moment that Portugal has gone through and thus follow the understanding of the Ombudsman. But the gentlemen. Members of the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens need to have a little more humility and self-criticism.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u234	Do we need self-criticism? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u235	Address your criticisms to the Socialist Party, your partner, and do not continue to apologize to the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u236	You said nothing about health!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u237	I think it's time for you to assume your responsibilities, too. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u238	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u239	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the possibility of accumulating the salary with the benefit due to disability due to illness or occupational accident. This accumulation existed until 2014 and the proponents of these legislative initiatives intend to reinstate this right. We have long defended the convergence of the social protection regime of public service with the general social security regime, a convergence initiated by a Government of the Socialist Party in 2006 with the entry into force of Law No 60 / 2005, which establishes convergence mechanisms with regard to conditions of retirement and calculation of pensions, with respect to acquired rights, without breach of the principle of trust and with the full sense of justice inherent in the objective of ensuring social protection equal to all workers. At the time of the debate in this Parliament of Bill No 171 / XII ( 2 ). a ), by the authorship of the previous Government, which originated Law No. 11 / 2014, the Socialist Party warned that this was not a law of convergence between the social protection regimes of public and private workers but rather a law that promoted divergence, with the sole objective of falling public expenditure, harming workers and pensioners of the social protection regime of the public function. Since it is certain that the Constitutional Court has vetoed parts of this Law, such as the 10% cut in paid pensions, it is also true that it has not declared the unconstitutionality of the rules discussed here today. The Socialist Party does not defend the current status quo or the previous one. It defends that social protection schemes are guided by equal rules for equal situations, be they the beneficiaries of the private or public sector, and that the convergence of the rules is done without violating the principle of trust, ensuring that, at the end of the process, there is greater social justice. In this way, the Socialist Party, as it is assumed in its Government Programme, is committed to « Ensuring a complete homogeneity of the general board of representations regime with the general social security regime ». In other words, at the end of more than a decade of hard travel, « (...) the Government will provide a fully convergent regime(...) ensuring the complete homogeneity of the different schemes with regard to training and rules for calculating pensions, eliminating the discrepancies that remain in order to ensure more equal treatment ». The Socialist Party is supportive of the public service workers who, due to an accident, are beneficiaries of periodic benefits due to permanent disability. And we therefore consider it necessary to amend the rule on the accumulation of periodic benefits due to permanent incapacity in the public service, which is present in the current wording of Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November, but we do not agree that the solution is the re-establishment of the previous regime proposed here by the Block, the CFP and the Greens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u240	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens Ecological Party, the Left Block and the CFP today brought these issues to debate related to occupational accidents and occupational diseases of civil servants. Well, I would like to reassure you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because these occupational health issues are also at the top of the priorities and policy decisions of the PSD. I would also like to tell you that, whether a government is more to the right or more to the left, it is natural that there must be a huge surveillance of health, safety and health plans at work. But even with this surveillance, unfortunately, accidents happen to workers — occupational diseases, disabilities. And this, of course, must be taken into account when the objectives are laid down for the worker at work, when the worker's performance assessment is carried out, and when, for example, the worker is no longer in active age and must therefore be compensated. On the other hand, when the worker decides to leave work in the public sector and go to work in the private sector, this inability must of course be taken into account and the State has to assume. But let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD accepts no-one's moral lessons on the social protection of workers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u242	It does not accept moral lessons, it does not even accept the word, very little adjusted to a debate as serious as this, which Mrs Joana Mortagua used: silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u243	She doesn't know what a pimp is! [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u244	The PSD does not admit that Mrs Joana Mortágua attributes the word 'calote' to a matter as serious as that of social protection for workers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u245	I didn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u246	Mrs. Members, the work that the PSD has done as a government and the political debates it has had on social protection in this Parliament are an example. We have worked in convergence schemes, in an approach to private sector workers, of course in what is possible, because they are different areas in terms of functional content. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] We have worked on this matter in fairness and in justice, always and always, with the guarantee of sustainability of public accounts. Mrs Joana Mortágua, the word « calote» does not come from us at all! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u247	We don't get caught up in everything, Mrs. Deputy. I also recall that there is a very important aspect in this regard: last month the Government signed the so-called « commitment to collective bargaining in 2018 » with workers' representatives. And, in this area, there are three very obvious topics: occupational health, accidents at work and disabilities. Well, like what happened to other matters...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u248	Mrs. Member, your time is up. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u249	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, like what has happened to other matters, we must value collective bargaining and we must value social dialogue. So we will let social dialogue emerge and, of course, we will support the proposals of the Greens Ecological Party, the Left Block and the PCP. Even if they deserve the reception of the Socialist Party, we will not abdicate this fundamental principle, which is respect for collective bargaining and social dialogue. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u250	Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, the responsibility for the situation that the employees of the Public Administration are living today, who suffer from an accident at work or who have a professional illness, is the PSD and the CDS. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] All the words that you are. Members here said they did not annul the authorship of the law which removed these workers from the possibility of receiving their compensation for accidents at work or occupational disease. [[PCP applause.]] All the words they said did not remove the authorship of the PSD and the CDS from denying this right to these workers. The CFP here presents the possibility of correcting this profound injustice for the workers of the Public Administration. It is time to put an end to this situation. It is not acceptable for those who suffer from a work accident or who acquire a professional disease to have a fair remedy for this situation. The proposal which the CFP brings to the debate presents concrete solutions in this regard. It is in this struggle that we are in the defence of the rights of the workers of the Public Administration and in the defence of the rights of all the workers of this country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u252	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u253	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, we note the regret of the CDS. It is not up to us but, yes, public servants forgive, or not, the CDS. However, we are not asked to forget who was responsible for changing the law. Mrs Carla Barros, « calote » means « not paying a debt ». [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] The government should pay these workers fair compensation for the accident at work and did not pay. If I didn't want the charge, I wouldn't have practiced it! Now, it's not worth blaming the dictionary for the words I chose to define the content of what the PSD did. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u254	Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, whenever public officials are speaking in convergence, fear that it will be done by the minor factor, by the diminutive, to reduce, to cut rights. And, therefore, the problem is not convergence, it is equality. Public servants and private workers have their schemes, because they have specificities in their work, but they must have equal rights, and that is what this is about. Our concern is that PS's concerns with these workers are not compatible with the maintenance of this law, with the wording that PSD and CDS gave it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u255	You now have the floor for the last speech of the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the CDS, I would like to say that, I am sorry, your will will will not be realized. And your will is that the workers of the public service and the Portuguese people in general forget the authorship of this profound injustice, which we have been discussing here, concerning the non-effective right of public servants who had accidents at work to receive their compensation for their incapacity. This injustice has an author: PSD / CDS. If that were not the case, we would not be discussing this at this time. The PSD Member has had a very funny shot but she has no grace at all: take the proposals, but she does not want the Assembly of the Republic to decide. It's a relatively strange thing! But the honourable Member will know! [[Oh, is it?Oh, my ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u257	With regard to the intervention of the PS, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, if the PS, in fact, is in favour of the principle of trust between the State and the employees of the public service and the principle of equality between the employees of the public service and the private sector, then it must support the bill of law of the Greens, because it effectively translates the principles of trust and equality. But the speech of the honourable Member was not in this sense, it was in a different sense. And, Mrs. Member, in order not to see our bill go down, it will go down to committee without a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u258	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u259	In the committee, Mrs Deputies, the PS will have to listen — and this is the commitment we have to make in this debate — those interested in this matter will have to understand what the solutions they propose and will have to be faced with specific cases, just to ensure these principles of trust and equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u260	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u261	And we, here, have the responsibility to create solutions and not to escape them. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u262	Mrs. Members, we have thus arrived at the end of the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 542 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 613 and 779 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). Before we move on to the voting period, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Alves to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 1352 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the replacement of the Ribeira do Frexo National Forest ( Idanha-a-Nova ), through the return of the Ribeira do Frexo to the total forest regime ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u264	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to start the voting period, we will carry out the examination of the deliberation quorum using the electronic system to that end. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 202 Members present, to whom the PS Member Luís Moreira Testa and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriça Neto add 204 Members, so we have a quorum for deliberation. Let us begin by voting No 486/ XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Despite the 17 fatal victims of the massacre at the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkman, Florida State, submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by PSD Members, which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last February 14th, the United States of America again experienced a tragic episode of its history. this time, it was at the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkman, Florida State, where an old student opened fire, impious and indiscriminately, on the students of the same high school, fatally victimizing 17 people, including children, and wounding 15 others, five of whom were hospitalized in critical condition. This incident occurs five months after the most deadly shooting ever in the United States of America, at a music festival in Las Vegas, and a year and a half after the Orlando massacre, inserting itself into a spiral of unprecedented violence in the modern history of the United States. The morticide at Parkman High School is 18. the attack with firearms in 45 days and the most deadly of all those that occurred in American schools in the last five years. In the face of this terrible act of cruelty, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret and condolences to the families of the victims of the massacre at the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida last February 14th, as well as the hopes of rapid improvements to all the wounded, and expresses its solidarity with the people and the US authorities."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u266	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 486 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 487 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemnation of bombings and crimes against humanity on the populations of the Ghouta region in Syria, submitted by BE and subscribed by PS and PSD Members. Before we proceed to your vote, and at the request of the CFP there will be speeches from the parliamentary seats, with a duration of 2 minutes. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP is solidarity with men, women and children who are victims of the war of aggression against the Arab Republic of Syria, demanding the end of the heinous aggression that is at the root of death, destruction, and the suffering that seven years ago are imposed on that country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u268	We therefore reject the propaganda that aims to whiten the aggression and its perpetrators, as well as the real objectives of those who do it, defend or promote it. The question that is raised is who is on the side of peace, the defence of the sovereignty of States and the political and peaceful solution of conflicts, the defence of rights and who, reproducing the propaganda of war, is on the side of aggression, disrespect for the Charter of the United Nations and international legality, destruction of sovereign States, interference, death and destruction. After they have created, financed and armed Daesh and other terrorist groups and led the war to Syria, the United States of America and its allies, such as Israel, Turkey or France, are now seeking to resume Syria's objective of division by their own hands. The media operation of war propaganda does not alter this reality. Titles and news texts exactly the same worldwide, shocking reports and images, interpreted with the same legends and comments, an observatory said based in London to be used as an unquestionable source on the situation in Syria. Everything similar to what happened to Iraq's invented weapons of mass destruction or to the preparation of aggression against Libya. Choosing to reproduce the war propaganda of the United States of America and its allies, the Left Block presents a vote that could have been subscribed by Donald Trump himself. It is no wonder that they do so, after having bleached and objectively supported the aggression of Libya, with all its role of death, destruction and suffering. The PCP option is exactly the opposite. We address our solidarity and express our sorrow to the victims of the war of aggression against Syria, we denounce those responsible for promoting the war and the destruction of this country, to which the Left Block covers with its vote. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u269	Mr. Paulo Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In view of what has been experienced in Syria in recent years, but especially in recent days in the vicinity of Damascus, the intriguing question arises: how is this unacceptable impunity possible? Crimes against humanity are committed daily in Syria, carried out with the support or silence of great world powers, the same as the United Nations Security Council, and which deal with any condemnation of these systematic attacks on totally defenseless populations. This Syrian people, absolutely defenseless, look at us, the international community, and see almost no practical attitude to preventing these crimes and hear little, very little, for their own comfort. What you hear every day is the noise of bombs and what you see are thousands of innocent children, hungry or injured and even thousands dead. You also see much more: millions of refugees, cities in dust and half a million dead. One question we have to ask ourselves: what civilization is this? Oh, my God! So, over the years, are we worse than we were? Oh, my God! Are more crimes committed in the world? Oh, my God! Is international law being violated, as never before? Oh, my God! The criminals of this world live in total impunity. Countries with enormous responsibilities commit, support or silence crimes against humanity, instead of defending those most in need of protection. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u271	Today, it's in Syria. Who guarantees that tomorrow will not be in any other country, including our own? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let it be noted that the Members of the Social Democratic Party fully demarcate these crimes against the Syrian people, which we condemn. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u272	We defend an independent investigation and that those responsible should be tried and convicted in an exemplary manner. With the approval of this vote in the Assembly of the Republic, we place ourselves next to it and we are spokesmen of the solidarity Portuguese people with the people who suffer in Syria. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u273	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not the first time that what happens in Syria is the subject of debate in this House of the Republic. The Left Block has already said in the past and now repeats that we do not exempt anyone from the guilt of the deadly existence in Syria. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u275	Who is there oppressing the people and who plays with the people on behalf of their geostrategic interests? Russia, the United States, Israel, Turkey, France... and the list could continue. For the Left Block there are no good dictators or bad dictators; there are no good external interferences or bad external interferences; there are no good bombs or bad bombs — all of them kill civilians, men, women and children. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u276	To be silent in the face of these deaths is to be pleasing to this mortality. They don't have that complacency in the Left Block. The Left Block demands what it has always demanded: freedom of decision to the Syrian people and we do not recognize those who internally or externally oppress the Syrian people legitimacy or to speak for him or to suppress his rights or, above all, to kill him in the name of interests that are not those of the people. The Left Block has always been next to the democracies and has never been next to the dictatorships.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u278	We are the parliamentary group that is proud to have already said it, in this House of the Republic, and today repeat it because it seems that not everyone can understand it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u279	Mr. Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no way to condemn any further barbaric escalation of violence and a new banalization of death and destruction in Syria. The violence of the last attack of the Assad regime against the eastern Ghouta region, reaching defenseless populations, is unfortunately only one more on the long list of attacks against humanity that have been unleashing Syria since 2011. Clinics, hospitals and maternity, nothing was spared, in an absolutely unacceptable terror strategy. Since the beginning of this attack more than 200 people have already died, including dozens of children, according to the Syrian Observatory of Human Rights. Some consider this to be the worst massacre of the 21st century. Neither the negotiations nor the hopes of ceasefire have given any result, nor does international law have any value. And when it was thought that the barbershop could no longer have a more extreme expression, behold, the massacre of Ghouta comes to us, once again, to destroy all faith in the slightest sense, either of the powers that condition the outcome of such a bloody conflict as this that takes place in Syria, or, obviously, of the regime itself of Bashar al-Assad, which has already cost life to more than half a million people, has completely destroyed the country and caused millions of displaced persons. And what about the chemical weapons attacks, something that the international community should not tolerate, whatever the arguments are, and which, unfortunately, are at risk of trivializing? It is not enough, and urgently, to hear the call of the United Nations to cease fire immediately, that great powers should lay their hands on consciousness and cease geostrategy games and international institutions can act to respond to another humanitarian crisis in such a dramatic way that there is no justification for inaction. Unfortunately, there is no parliamentary condemnation that can compensate, at least, for the tragedy of the Syrian people, with which we solidarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u281	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group also spoke.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: As it has been said here, unfortunately, this is not the first time we have discussed the question of Syria and I am afraid it is not the last. It's not the first time and for the worst reason. In fact, it has been a repeated massacre, a repeated barbarism against civilians, innocent and defenseless people, regardless of the angle of opinion that may be held. These are acts that set up real war crimes that are absolutely unacceptable, regardless of any political responsibilities, that exist and cannot be forgotten, but that, in the face of the brutality of these acts, we really believe that it is not the right time to talk about it. This vote therefore condemns what seems to us to be the obvious and objectively condemnable, which is why we will vote in favour. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u283	Mrs. Members, let us then proceed to the vote on vote No 487 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemnation of bombings and crimes against humanity on the populations of the Ghouta region in Syria, submitted by BE and subscribed by PS and PSD Members. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u284	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u285	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u286	Mr President, it is to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u287	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1288 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Greece ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u288	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u289	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u290	Mr President, I would like to make a statement of vote on vote No 487 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u291	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1340 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends Portugal's withdrawal from the 1990 Ortographic Agreement, cautioning follow-up and transition measures, a balance sheet report on the implementation of the new Ortographic Agreement of the Portuguese Language and a new negotiation of the bases and terms of a possible Ortographic Agreement ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, The Greens and two CDS-PP (Philipe Lobo d’Ávila and Ilda Araújo Novo) and abstentions against the PAN, 1 PSD (Miguel Morgado), 1 PS Member (Helena Roseta) and 3 CDS-PP (António Carlos Monteiro, Isabel Galicia Neto and Teresa Caeiro).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u292	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u293	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u294	Mr President, it is to announce that the CDS will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u295	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u296	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u297	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u298	Mr President, that is to say that I will present a declaration of vote individually.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u299	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u300	Mr President, it is also to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u301	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u302	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u303	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u304	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make an individual statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u305	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u306	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to announce that I will make a statement of an individual vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u307	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u308	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u309	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u310	Be registered, Mrs. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. We shall proceed with the vote on Bill No 109 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the rules for the marketing of financial products and the organisation of financial intermediaries and transposes Directives 2014 / 65 / EU and ( EU ) 2016 / 1034, the European Parliament and the Council, and Commission Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 593. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and PS, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstains from BE, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u311	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u312	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u313	Mr President, it is to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u314	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1212 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an agri-food scientific committee ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from BE.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1334 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a platform for promoting Portuguese agri-food ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the PS, the PCP and the Greens and the Abstaining of BE.]] We then proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1337/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to strengthen research, experimentation, support, monitoring and agricultural advice ( CFP ). The CDS-PP asked for it to be voted in an unbundled manner. So let us first vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on points 1 and 2. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1341 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish an eco-agri-food scientific committee ( NAP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1266 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the termination of the universal postal service contract by notifying CTT — Post Offices of Portugal, SA, of serious non-compliance ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and votes in favour of BE and PAN were rejected with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 780 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the recovery regime for the public control of TTCs ( CCPs ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1342 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reversion of privatisation of TTC(The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u315	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u316	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u317	Mr. President, it is to inform you that. for the last three diplomas voted, the PS Parliamentary Group shall submit a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u318	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the vote on Bill No 743 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a minimum period of 120 days for the provision of digital forms of liability of the Tax Authority ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and the CFP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. The vote on Bill No. 591 / XIII ( 2 ) was followed. ( a ) — Determines the application of the EPAL Business Agreement to all employees of companies established under Decree-Law No 34 / 2017 of 24 March ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote three requests, submitted by the respective authors of the legislative initiatives, asking the Committee on Labour and Social Security to be discharged, without voting for a period of 60 days, of the projects of lein.o 542 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Create greater justice in the right to benefit from disability due to sickness or occupational accident ( The Greens ), 613 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Renews the right of civil servants to compensation for damages resulting from occupational accidents and diseases ( BE) and 779 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recomposes the possibility of the accumulation of permanent disability benefits with the proportion of remuneration corresponding to the percentage of permanent reduction of the employee's overall earning capacity ( CFP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These bills are down to 10. the Commission. We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1279 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Prohibition of the marketing of cosmetics with microplastics ( BE ). At the request of the CFP, we will break the vote. We shall vote on point 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u319	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u320	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u321	Mr President, it is to announce, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, that we will deliver a vote statement on the vote on this last draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u322	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1332 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government immediately suspend further demolition on the island of Culatra and the treatment on an equal footing of all its population centres ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1335/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — At the end of the demolition on the Ria Formosa ( PCP ) bars. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1042 / XIII ( 2 ) was followed. ( a ) — Assessment of compliance with the law with regard to the right of the user to follow-up in the institutions of the National Health Service ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 31 to 42 of the Journal on plenary meetings of 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 17, 18, 19, 24, 25, 26 and 31 January 2018. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mr Pedro Alves has now given the floor to take account of a report and an opinion and an opinion, both of the Ethics Subcommittee, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be voted upon after its reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u323	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the report and opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, refers to the resignation of Mr. João Ramos ( PCP), the electoral circle of Beja, being replaced by Mr. João Manuel Ildefonso Dias, with effect from 1 March, including. The opinion is in the sense of waiver and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u324	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please proceed, Secretary Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u325	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Labour Court J 4, of the Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Case No. 9180 / 17.5T8LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Jorge Machado ( PCP ) to intervene within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u326	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u327	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u328	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u329	Mr President, it is to be announced that with regard to draft resolutions 1332 and 1335 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the members of the Socialist Party, elected by the electoral circle of Faro, shall present a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-22.u330	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. After the vote, we have also reached the end of our work. The next plenary meeting shall take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the agenda of a debate with the Minister of Health under Article 225. the Rules of Procedure. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 55 minutes.]]
