ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Pedro Alves will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 1243 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Final recruitment of health professionals placed under the influenza contingency plan activated between 1 November 2017 and 31 March 2018 ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u3	Before we move on to the agenda, I would like to announce to the House that a delegation from the National Assembly of the Republic of Korea, headed by your President, Mr Chung Sie-kyun, is present in the diplomatic gallery for which we welcome. [[General applause, stand up.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us now turn to the agenda, which has as its first point the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1038/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the Council of Maction in the forest management pilot project ( PSD ), 1041 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the municipalities of Oleiros, Vila Velha de Rodão, Castelo Branco and Proença-a-Nova in the forest management pilot project ( PSD ), 1043 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the municipalities of Gavião and Nisa in the pilot forest planning project ( PSD ), 1227 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of forest management measures to all municipalities affected by forest fires in 2017 ( CDS-PP ) and 1234 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government extend the application of the contents of Ordinance No 321/2017 of 9 October to the other municipalities with significant areas burned in 2017 ( BE ). To begin the debate and present the legislative initiatives of the PSD, Mr Duarte Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group took the initiative to propose to this House that it should update, to use sympathetic words, what was the priority of the Portuguese Government when presenting pilot projects for the reforestation of burned areas. The fires occurred since the Pedrogon tragedy and we all reached the same conclusion: it was important to reforest in a different way, in an orderly manner, to experience a new forest policy for the country, it was necessary to go beyond the project that was planned for Pedrogan. Unfortunately, Portugal burned a lot between the fires of Pedrogão and 15 October. During the months of July, August and September, we have faced one of the greatest calamities of the last 50 years. And in this case it was important to do justice. I remember that the first project that the PSD presented was about the council of Mação, the third municipality of the country with more burning area. It would be very unfair that this council — where Mr. Prime Minister celebrated last year the day of the tree — was pointed out as an example in forest prevention and that since 2004 he asked the successive governments to make such a pilot project, it would be out of these initiatives. The country continued to burn and was the most affected district of White Castle. I speak of the Town Councils of the Fundão, of Vila de Rei, of Oleiros, of Proença-a-Nova and of Castelo Banco. Later on, they burned Nisa and Gavião in the Portalegre district. And that area of the interior pine, which was considered, in Portugal and throughout Europe, as the green lung of Europe, nowadays, burned everything. If there is a region of the country for which it was essential to have the privilege of receiving these pilot projects, it was to these councils. These were the councils that most alerted to the danger of fires and were the ones who felt, more present and closest, the danger that meant forest disorder, the flight of people to the coast and the multiplicity of owners and properties that exist inside. It was here that we had to start working. But, well, the government decided to start with the councils affected by the Pedrogão tragedy. Having been the PSD to propose to the Government that it would take advantage of the unhappiness of this tragedy in order to promote a fundamental change in the territory, in the forest area, and that it might resort to the Juncker plan — a plan that already allowed this type of partnership and funding and, with the new update, led by a Portugueseman named José Manuel Fernandes, to create clear opportunities for the territory and the interior — the Government should make this investment, show its commitment to present this solution and these pilot projects, using the Juncker plan, and extend them to these municipalities. They are the most affected councils in the country, they are the councils where, fortunately, people did not die, but they are councils that have been so abandoned with regard to the aid for reconstruction after the period of fires. Surely other councils in the country also deserve this opportunity. We know that you can't get to the whole country at the same time, but these councils have the know-how, they have the tragedy, they want to change and, in partnership with the private sector, with the associative sector and with the government, do these pilot projects of reforestation. Therefore, Mr President, after yesterday, and very well, the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, with the support of all parties, decided to extend the support given to Pedrogan to the councils that were significantly affected by these tragedies, councils that now have the opportunity to have the same rights, and to end this discrimination, this House must also approve the draft resolutions under discussion to allow pilot projects to reach the most affected country, the most affected country and in particular the most burned municipalities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u5	To present the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The tragedy of Pedrogão Grande has shaken the country not only by the intensity of fires, by the intensity of destruction, but above all by the brutal death of 65 people. The Government was then obliged to acknowledge that there was a huge failure of the State in its most basic function of protection of persons and goods, and reacted with a set of measures to support victims, businesses and territory. in one of the various reports produced, in September 2017, the Pinhal Interior Revitalization Program was presented, among others, with a set of measures for the sustainable reforestation of affected territories. It turns out, unfortunately, the state failed more often in 2017 and more than 45 people died, hundreds of companies were destroyed and more 450 000 ha of forest and bush burned. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, « The recovery of regions covered by major fires represents a critical opportunity for the redesign of the territory (...) ». This statement is only I do it, it is reflected in the Pinhal Interior Revitalization Program, page 13, anyone can read it. Although we have not done it, we agree at all with it. Therefore, the CDS presents this draft resolution, reforestation of the entire territory burnt down in 2017, because the opportunity has to be given not only to some but to all territories severely affected by the 2017 fires. Mação, Abrantes, Gavião, Nisa, but also in them, Monção, Oliveira do Bairro and the others, more than 50, affected councils have to have the same conditions for the rearrangement of their territory. They cannot stay years waiting for this pilot project to take effect, so that it can be replicated. On the other hand, alternative funding should be sought, in particular, as already mentioned by Mr Duarte Marques, through the Juncker Plan, because the funds available in the RDP ( Rural Development Plan ) and other programmes in Portugal 2020 are not sufficient to address the size of the needs until we cannot mortgage investment in the rest of the territory which has not burned. The other reason why we present this project is because—and here we make the recommendation— parallelly caring for what was burned, it is necessary to look at what was left, so it did not burn, so that it does not burn in 2018, again. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u7	The Government should therefore provide effective forest intervention and fuel load reduction measures so that the 2017 tragedies do not repeat. Our draft resolution covers two aspects: on the one hand, the urgent intervention throughout the vast territory of the country that burned in 2017 and on the other hand, taking care of the country that did not burn, so that it does not burn in 2018. This project follows other initiatives which the CDS has already presented here, including enlargement to these areas, for example, of the pilot project of the building register, which, unfortunately, has not been approved in this House, or also the extension of support for victims to the municipalities seriously affected and which will soon be distributed, and this will, in fact, deserve the support of all the banks, and in principle voted favourably tomorrow, and can extend a set of support to these areas which were initially forgotten by the Government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u8	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :To the enormous human and economic losses caused by the summer and autumn 2017 fires, environmental damage can now be added due to landslides, engulfed and soil erosion processes following the first rains, and the others that come around, fearing that such scenarios can worsen throughout this winter. There are serious risks of absorbing rivers and rivers, with the consequent floods. For example, we have had complaints from some producer organizations in the Coimbra district that report that, with the first rains, the ashes and forest and agricultural materials were pushed into the water lines. in the words of representatives of these organizations, « the Mondego itself already shows, on the surface, the black muds which, meanwhile, will come up and down the Aguieira dam. Do not keep on seeking. ” It seems more than clear to us that the measures necessary for the repair and prevention of material and environmental damage resulting from these phenomena in the territories affected by the disaster of last summer and autumn fires are essential. However, there has been an undesirable and major legislative dispersion, which has led to unequal treatment for populations with similar or similar problems. The urgency of the answers will explain this picture, but it is time to repair injustices that have been created in the meantime. Similar to the support granted to municipalities affected by the Pedrogão fire for urgent interventions for forest regularization, abnormal soil flow and till the end of October 2017, it is also necessary to intervene in the municipalities affected by the other major fires. It is necessary for the Government to review all diplomas published in the context of fires from June to October and to harmonise them in order to allow equal treatment to territories and people with the same problems. Finally, and in a more surgical way, it is also necessary to extend Ordinance No 321/2017 of 9 October to allow support by the Environmental Fund for urgent and particularly relevant interventions in all municipalities significantly affected by forest and rural fires between June and October last year. This wave of fires in July, August and September reached about 250,000 ha, of the 480 000 ha which burned from June to October, most of which were burned. Here too the catastrophe has dramatically reached some councils that have already been mentioned, in particular the Council of Macion. To treat all equally is an imperative of justice which, we believe, will all recognize and which we propose here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u10	Mr João Ramos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no doubt that the problem of Portuguese forest has been on the agenda for years. There is no doubt that the 2017 fires have reached the extraordinary level of destruction that they have achieved because the forest disorder and deficit management to which the forest is subjected, in particular due to lack of profitability, have allowed it. But these situations are not disconnected from decades of political options of successive governments in which legislation has been systematically ignored, the sorting measures have not been properly implemented and the teams and procedures approved have not been created, often by consensus. The situation is also due to the political options that have been hijacking public services and that have not affected forest policy the resources it has always needed. But the parties that have supported governments knew this, because if there is something that the PCP never stopped saying was that there would never be a correct policy for the forest without the adequate financial resources and public services capable of implementing. For this reason, well now parties who have responsibilities to have left the national forest to come to the situation in which it was this summer will present numerous proposals that do not diminish its responsibility. The correct sorting measures are well defined in different sorting instruments. We admit as important that new planning models are experimenting, but they cannot provide an adequate assessment before they can be generalized. Fundamentally, forest planning is facing the established interests, and that's what the PSD never wanted to do. On the other hand, the PSD recommendations are unclear, which want to apply the Pinhal Interior Revitalization Program to different municipalities. They will seek equal treatment between municipalities, but, if so, I ask why they did not follow the PCP proposal to extend the law of support to the victims of fires to all, I repeat, all the municipalities affected. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u12	Proof of the real intention of the PSD is the fact that the Members of each electoral circle present their own project and then write in the preamble that an extended and comprehensive vision of the whole territory and of the planning is necessary for the resolution of the problem. The CDS, having been responsible for the forest folder during the last government, has more immediate responsibilities in the country's forest reality. With regard to the projects that are actually bringing forward today, there are proposals for measures which are already expressed in recently approved legislation. Finally, the BE proposals suggest legislative harmonisation, something that the CFP has already urged the Government to do, in particular through the legislative consolidation process. We agree that the Environmental Fund is an instrument to be used. Solving the problems of the Portuguese forest may not be easy and much less rapid, but the instruments exist, the guidelines are defined. Now it is necessary to do different than what successive governments have done, in particular the previous one, of the PSD / CDS. The PS Government needs to accentuate this difference. There will be no different forest without the enhancement of national production or the strengthening of the public services that the CFP defends. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u13	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The forest fires of 2017, both by the victims caused by the burning area and by the amounts of losses suffered, meant an unprecedented situation. The last year has shown how the diplomas of forest reform were urgent and how for years we have not made the necessary progress in this area. The future reduction of the burned area can only be achieved through better prevention and planning of the territory. The sustainability of the forest is either in the economic aspect, either in the environmental aspect, or in the social aspect, it is a design of everyone who obliges a clear bet in the forestry system. In view of the human and material dimension of the so-called "Great Pedrogon Fire", the Government determined the adoption of extraordinary measures to deal with the damage caused by the fires and the promotion of economic resilience of the territories, as well as the initiation of a programme aimed at adopting measures for sustained reorganization and structural prevention of forests. It envisaged the same resolution of the Council of Ministers for the development of a pilot project for the Centre region that would promote sustainable forest reorganization. As the designation itself indicates, the objective would be, with positive results, to be able to replicate this pilot project to other municipalities or regions of the country. We also agree with the need to repair and prevent environmental damage to fires last summer. The preservation of resources, particularly through the preservation of soils and the stabilization of emergency, makes all the sense. It should be noted, however, that for the first time in Portugal, there was emergency stabilization precisely in the year when the fires broke out. It is also important to note that the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests has a contractual procedure with the aim of installing forest defense networks against fires, through fuel management ranges, mosaics of fuel management parcels and in access to first-order water points. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, as it has demonstrated in the discussion on the speciality of the support to the councils affected by the fires, has as its concern to treat what is equal. In particular, we know that in the districts of Santarém, Portalegre and Castelo Branco we have several municipalities that, by their burned area or by the estimated overall amount of damage, should be included in the public support to be granted. It was the fires that broke out in municipalities such as Macion, Oleiros, Vila de Rey, Nisa or Gavião, and others, between the fire of Pedrogão Grande and those of October. It is a matter of justice to treat what is equal and different what is different. It is essential to realize that measures are important for each municipality or region. We in the Socialist Party defend the principles of territorial cohesion which can only be achieved with a joint vision of the territory. We are available for permanent dialogue with all, working together to solve the problems of the Portuguese forest. These projects will thus harmonise criteria. More than the praise and paternity of each proposal, the important thing is to solve the problems of populations affected by the tragedies of fires. It is with this availability that we find ourselves. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Member Duarte Filipe Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u15	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists in the general discussion of draft law No 720 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the arrangements applicable to the out-of-court collection of overdue claims and to undertakings engaged in such activity ( PS ). Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject matter of this extrajudicial recovery or extrajudicial recovery activity has been the subject of numerous communications and concern by many consumers and many debtors, as they often show aggressive and invasive practices of what is the reserved sphere of people and how legal trade should take place. Many countries already have regulations on this subject: the United States, the United Kingdom, France. It is an activity that has a very great weight in collecting credit associated with mass consumption and is also a reality that today — and we began precisely by underlining that same — is a legal activity in the current regulatory framework. It is a lawful activity, even if not regulated, insofar as it is based on the general principle of private autonomy and insofar as it is not confused with other nearby activities, in particular with the acts of lawyers or solicitors themselves, moreover, as already a case-law decision of the relationship confirmed it and as the Institute of Registers and Notariado itself has recognized at the time of re-registration of the entities engaged in this activity and in which the social object is precisely this. So what we have is a relevant activity, with an impact on the lives of the debtors, consumers and today has no regulation, any supervision and any sanctioning framework. in this sense, it seems to us that we should create a regulatory framework that does three things at the same time. First of all, to prohibit what is generally referred to as the « weak collector », i.e. oppressive methods or intrusion which, through embarrassment, humiliation, persecution, contacts at work, contacts at home out of attentive hours, with disrespect for their own reservation, with lack of urbanity, actually make black life for people who are only debtors and which, therefore, should not be disturbed in this way. Secondly, apart from these activities that we must prohibit, we must also regulate, with clear rules on access, the development of this activity when it is carried out in the framework of the lawfulness and in the framework that should be that of the activity of private law, with the registration in the Directorate-General for Economic Activities, with the proof of the suitability of those who want to engage in this practice, with the obligation to exist codes of conduct, with the obligation to exist of a site, a physical place where people can go and then enable them to activate what seems important to us to do, which is the existence of a framework of supervision and a framework of sanctions. Again, two realities that we do not find today. Thirdly, the activity itself must also be worthy of regulation and fixing of which should be the beacons and activities to be carried out, requiring the written reduction of contracts, maintaining them for supervision; obliging the duties of information with debtors; obliging the duties of information with debtors; obliging the preservation and safeguarding of privacy of private life; obliging the entities to refrain from insisting after reporting that the debtor does not intend to solve the debt; obliging the recording of calls made when the contact is telephone; obliging the existence of a complaint book; and requiring the existence of rules on the way in which the contacts are made. We need to find a way to protect consumers who are in a situation where they are asked to do so. Leaving reality as currently is and no terms to protect them effectively does not seem enough to us. It should also be pointed out that in many cases what happens is that companies engaged in this practice do not do so only on behalf of third parties, they themselves acquire credit portfolios and become creditors. And, by becoming this way, creditors actually remain in a position where there is no possibility of imposing other rules of conduct on them if we fail to adopt and adopt legislation which falls within the scope of it. in this sense, we have full availability for the debate, to welcome alternative proposals that improve the articulation between this activity and those that should be acts of lawyers or applicants themselves. In fact, we know that this is a measure which will be included in the Justice Pact to propose to the sovereign bodies and within which, of course, we will also have the opportunity to verify whether all problems are solved and whether that is the way to put an end to abusive practices. We are also available to consider the possibility of enlargement to any other credit recovery activity which is not being regulated today. Above all, nothing to do will disprotect consumers; nothing to do will keep uncertainty about a reality that needs clear regulation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u17	For an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative under discussion arises at a time when the agents of justice, corresponding to an appeal by the President of the Republic, seek to sign a pact involving them and may serve as a beacon to the legislator. However, in a situation where caution is therefore required in the amendments to the legal order, the Socialist Party brings to the debate a real paradigm shift to the debt collection system. Let's see: does anyone know an alternative means to the satisfaction of credits that do not pass through or through negotiation or through judicial channels? The truth is that, in order to legitimize, with the legislator's involvement, debt collection activities outside these areas, we guarantee the pressures, blackmails and a whole set of practices we repudiate. In addition, the initiative in question has already met strong opposition from the Order of Lawyers and the Order of Applicants and Implementing Agents, expressing their total repudiation for this bill. Furthermore, the Order of Advocates has issued up to one communiqué which, and I quote, « collides with the central core of the acts of the lawyers and applicants themselves, approved by this General Council and sent to the Ministry of Justice expressly stating that the extrajudicial collection of claims from third parties, with or without negotiation, is a matter reserved for the sole competence of lawyers and applicants ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot hide, and now from a strictly legal point of view, that there is a clear interference in the acts that have long been consolidated as the acts of lawyers and implementing agents, and so this bill is intended to go beyond the agents of the sector. In fact, this is a project submitted by the Socialist Party that the Minister of Justice has already stated that it is not justified. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, do not defend the citizen by legislating on bad practices. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no promotion of legislative amendments in the area of justice through discussion of a pact for the sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Party will vote against this Socialist Party bill for being inadequate, inappropriate and pointing the wrong way to justice in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u19	Mr Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to start by focusing on the issue we are discussing here today, and I explain why. Today morning, I agreed with news in the newspapers referring to the following : « PS wants to ban weak collectors ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u21	Change the weakness in fact and tie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u22	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, a few years ago, repeated precisely the same expression, or close to it. And I thought: "It is not in this debate that I am, nor is it this debate that I am going to do in the afternoon. I'm wrong. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u23	They don't like the weak!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u24	I went to see and, after all, I'm not wrong! That's exactly it! It's the same degree and then I realized why. After so much controversy and so many rivers of ink that they have already run, the PS has tried to return to the text and has published exactly what he is not, Mr. But things are what they are and, therefore, what it is actually about is legalizing, if not the traditional weak collectors, another type of weak collectors. And, Mr President, that is actually a problem. No one here is squambling, nor does he know that the problem exists and that it is even well-identified by the PS. It is a problem with which consumers are effectively confronted and which needs to be resolved—we have no doubt about that. All problems really have a simple, fast and appropriate solution. The question, Mr President, is to find the right solution to some problems which are not always simple, are often slow and, above all, must be accompanied by the hearings of all the parties involved, and this has not been done. That's the only way they do good laws. And this law, clearly, is not a good law, is rejected by all, including by your Minister of Justice. Therefore, it only has and deserves one destiny: rejection. We already know that the bill will probably go down to committee without a vote, so that we can see if we can then amend the thing, but I have a lot of difficulty in seeing that the basis of this work can be taken advantage of. Mr Delgado Alves could possibly have taken advantage of some of the work that is already being done on this subject, as the Ministry of Justice, together with the partners and consumers, has also been called upon here. But what can not be done is to legalise the abuses and attacks that are being committed today — and it is true that they are being committed — without, for example, certain ethical rules are being laid down, without the assurance of civil liability and we do not find it least conceivable that, in this area, it is the ASAE (Food and Economic Security Authority) to monitor all these kinds of issues. So there are aspects that really make no sense and that we cannot understand. It would be better if they were to work together with the government that supports and that, with all those interested, we could pave the way for a solution. In fact, a solution needs to be found, but sometimes solutions need to be sought in a way that is less rapid, speedy and light than the one here is trying to do. Therefore, Mr President, that is what we advise. The CDS will be willing to discuss this issue because the problem exists, but not in these forms, not in this way, not with this diploma. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u25	Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative presents a positive intention, which is to regulate the extrajudicial collection of overdue debts, but raises some reservations. The technical note cites only one legal order of our Roman-German family, the French one. The other references are made to countries of the Anglo-Saxon legal universe, which is substantially different, the entire legal building is different and therefore also different the procedural and substantial guarantees that protect consumers. We are concerned about the idea of negotiation as justice, when we are facing disputes between parties with very unequal negotiating power. It is the large companies that are at the root of the largest volume of disputes due to lack of payment, motivated by accession contracts, and above all those companies that will be interested in using this type of service. This project, in the assessment made by the Order of Advocates, as has already been mentioned, collides with the central core of the acts of lawyers and applicants and the Minister of Justice itself does not need to change the legislation in this regard. In good rigour, this activity is not regulated. There are already legal mechanisms for the collection of out-of-court debts, there are already professions with these duties, which are obliged to comply with their own ethical standards and subject to a framework of penalties, in case of abusive action. The law already protects consumers from abusive practices such as coercion. however, the Left Block is always available to improve the law and seek tools that better protect citizens from aggressive practices that exist in this activity. We have complete openness to, in the specialty, listen to all those concerned — the Advocates' Order, the Appeals Chamber, the Portuguese Consumer Defense Association — and seek the best solutions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u27	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in fact we do not understand the reasons for the presentation of this legislative initiative by the PS, because, as we think - and rightly so - we have already stated both the Order of Lawyers and the Order of Applicants and Implementing Agents, we are not before a gap in our legal order. What actually exists is an activity that is illegal, which is of illicit prosecutorial status—and as such qualified even by several court rulings—that works outside the law and is generally known as a "weak tax collector" or "hard collection companies". Therefore, they are activities outside the law, illegal, and the solution to this problem does not go through making them lawful, without the actions of lawyers and applicants and with the loss of existing legal mechanisms for the collection of debts either at the judicial level or extrajudicial. Moreover, the positions of their orders are unequivocal in relation to the frontal repudiation for this initiative. The position of the Advocates' Order has already been cited here by Mrs Andreia Neves. It is also important to highlight that of the Order of Applicants and Enforcement Agents, which states, textually : « The activity of extrajudicial collection of credits is regulated in Portugal, dealing with the acts of lawyers and applicants themselves, so we are not before a separation of water between what is and is not lawful; we are, yes, making lawful an activity unquestionably illegal, without any evidence of the advantages resulting from the adoption of this model". On the other hand, it should be noted that everyone welcomed the fact that the various entities representing the judicial agents had met in Troy to reach agreement on a set of relevant matters relating to the justice system. But precisely the proposal 41, which came out of this meeting involving the Order of Advocates, the Order of Appeals and Enforcement Agents, the Trade Union of Portuguese Judges, the Union of Magistrates of Public Prosecutors and the Union of Judicial Magistrates, is, and I quote, « Rejection of any legal model of extrajudicial charges outside the framework of the agents of the justice system. It is a matter of stressing the rejection of any mechanisms of ‘difficult collection’ and the possibility of legalization of forms of payment, formal or informal interpellation, which are not carried out under mandate by the agents of the justice system. The fact that there are multiple misleading behaviours in the market must require increased regulation and supervision, not promoting the deprotection of citizens in this area. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mrs. Members, I believe that there is indeed a great consensus on the inopportunity of this initiative. What the Socialist Party here is saying is that it wants to ban the weak banker, but what it wants to do is not to prohibit the weak banker, it is, when much, to prohibit the weak banker! In other words, they can continue to do illicit procuring, provided that, instead of weakness, they use fact and tie, provided they have a tabule turned to the street and, instead of aggressively threatening, do so delicately.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u29	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u31	Therefore, we cannot support this legislative initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u32	It's a delicacy threat!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u33	The next item is the floor of Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the various contributions. I just want to leave two or three very brief notes on the matter. First of all, this is a reality in which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has worked since the XII legislature and has had the opportunity to meet either with the Advocates' Order, either with the then Chamber of Appeals, or with the DECO, either with the representative association of the sector that, with divergent positions, effectively underlined that there is a gap or, if not a gap, at least an interpretative doubt. That is, when companies are not engaged in the negotiation of credits, there are judicial decisions and there is a position taken by the Institute of Registers and Notariado, which notes that it is a lawful activity and can therefore be registered and develop the activity lawfully. Therefore, clearly, we have an activity in a relevant economic sector that has no regulation and whose immediate result is consumer deprotection. Indeed, what is recently emphasized in the positions do not reflect the law in force, but the positions of the organs of the Order or the very valid proposals of the Covenant of Justice, but which are not in force. And because they are not in force, what do we do to protect consumers until, effectively and possibly, they are regulated?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u35	Would you like to finish, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u36	I will finish, Mr. President. On the other hand, we still have a problem in our arms, which is to know how charges are made even when they are owned by the holder, that is, when the credit portfolio is acquired and in which, in fact, there is no way to stop or inhibit this possibility of action. We reiterate what we have said: we have full availability to build a solution that protects consumers. This is the main wish of this initiative and I believe that if all the parliamentary groups in it are interested, we will achieve a better solution for the whole legal order. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u37	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in draft law No 302 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — End of abusive geographical and functional mobility clauses ( BE ). To present this legislative initiative, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate is about a particular form of violence and imposition, which is what is done by requiring a person in a subordinate situation to give up in advance the rights which the law confers on him. We do so from the discussion of two fundamental dimensions in any relationship of work: those that establish what I will do and the place where I will work. A contract that said I would do anything anywhere would not really be a contract, but a situation of contractual dictatorship, in which a weaker part, vulnerable by having no alternative, would be subject to the conditions imposed by the most powerful side, no matter what despotic. The Portuguese law has a long history of regulating these matters which seeks to make a balance of interests between the rights of those working and the exercise of the management power of the employer, as regards the functions and place of work. The law establishes principles: the functions of the worker must be defined and the workplace also. And it establishes exceptions, which is also reasonable. What does the law mean? The law states that, in addition to the norm, the functions are included in the contract, except where the employer may unilaterally request the employee to perform functions that are not understood in the contract, provided that temporarily and without modifying his position. The law also refers to Article 129. the, which is forbidden the employer to transfer the worker to another place, except in four cases, which are the exceptions. First, when a collective agreement allows and regulates it; second, when there is explicit agreement of the worker on this change; third, when there is a total or partial change or termination of the establishment in which the service is provided; fourth case, unilaterally by the employer, provided that it is in the interests of the company and the transfer does not entail serious injury to the worker. This is the expression of the law. It could be said that these four exceptions are already vast enough and that the concept of "serious damage to the worker" is too indeterminate. Probably, it is! But what is really serious is that, in addition to these four exceptions that the law already regulates, has been introduced by the PSD and the CDS, in the law of work, a new clause to be added to these, which says that the parties can extend or restrict the provisions of this article, provided they agree with that. This rule has produced the expected effects. In hundreds of thousands of employment contracts there is the rule that says « I was hired to work in port, but I can be put to work anywhere that the employer determines. I can go to Beja, Faro or Bragança without observing the legally established assumptions for this purpose." That is to say, it is an exception which devours the norm; it is a situation in which the employer can unilaterally decide where the worker is sent; and it is, in essence, also an instrument of moral harassment which questions the Constitution, the balance that the law of work must have and which leaves the worker to the mercy of a contractual dictatorship. It is this norm and only this norm that we want, with this bill, to repeal and withdraw from the Labour Code. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u39	On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u40	Mr President, since I am speaking, I would ask you to leave a very personal note to remember not only a magnificent speaker, and that in the Assembly of the Republic he left countless examples, but also his generosity. I'm talking about Antonio de Almeida Santos, who left exactly a year ago. [[Congratulations from the PS, BE and PSD Members.]] Referring now to the debate in question, I wanted to say that sometimes when we hear the explanations from the Left Block — which we thank very much for — we seem to be talking about different laws, because our interpretation is not always consistent. We confess that we have not been able to follow the coherence of some of these proposals. In fact, as we have already heard, we are talking about two articles on mobility, Articles 120. is 194. the, which in its paragraphs 1 respectively enshrine the principle, in the case of functional mobility, that in the interests of the company the core of functions may be exceeded and, in the case of geographical mobility, the possibility of transfer of the worker in the event of total or partial change of the company. What is proposed does not relate to the consecration of the principle contained in paragraph 1 of each of the articles, which, in a very radical perspective, we could even understand, although not accompanying it, as is obvious. What is proposed is the elimination of paragraph 2, which is in fact the result of the agreement between the parties in order to extend or restrict what is determined in paragraph 1. In addition, Article 120 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ). it reinforces the protection of the worker, not only as regards the remuneration but also as regards the enjoyment of working conditions that may be more favorable. Another issue that we would easily understand would be that, in particular, the violation of paragraph 2, i.e. failure to comply with the agreement, could be punishable, which is not in fact punishable. So we even admitted that, in this case, there was a specific sanction for this situation. We know perfectly well that the workers are the weakest part and we agree with their defence, which we cannot do, in our opinion, is to foresee and accept, above all, that the decision-making capacity for workers is withdrawn. So what we have to say to this House, very frankly, is that we are available, as we have always been, to deepen the debate, to analyze and refine the issues, following what was said here by the Bloc, in order to improve the defence of workers, but if the proposal does not go down to the Commission, we will have to vote against. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u41	Mrs Susana Lamas of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block comes here today, proposing, with Bill No. 302 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) which eliminates the possibility that the legal requirements of functional mobility and geographical mobility of workers may be removed by agreement. The articles of the Labour Code are now under discussion, Articles 120. is 194. the, establish the rules for functional mobility as well as the transfer of the worker to another workplace. Both legal requirements admit the possibility of the parties, worker and employer, to reach an agreement, this agreement which goes in the sense of, as regards Article 120. the, be extended or restricted the ability granted to the employer to instruct the worker to temporarily perform functions not included in the engaged activity and as regards Article 194. the, broadening or restricting the possibility of transferring the worker to another workplace, in both cases always complying with the legally stipulated rules. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the Left Block wants is to eliminate this possibility from the parties involved, i.e. workers and employers, to reach an agreement, to a consensus.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u43	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u44	And why? Why does the Left Block not accept this possibility of consensus, according to the parties?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u45	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u46	Because the Left Block continues to view the labor relationship as a relationship of distrust, ongoing struggle and conflict between the parties. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u47	In fact, the terms used in the explanatory statement of this bill are well elucidative of this radical posture.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u50	But there has to be trust and good faith, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what would it be if relations between workers and employers were not based on principles of good faith and mutual trust?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u51	All right! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u52	To speak in contractual dictatorship, as the Left Block does, is to question the position of the worker and the employer. If this is your understanding, sirs. Bloggers, then any agreement between worker and employer is a contractual dictatorship. What if the agreement favors the worker, is it no longer a contractual dictatorship? [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u53	There can always be a deal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u54	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the adaptability of workers and businesses to the framework for the development of labour relations is an indispensable instrument for strengthening competitiveness and improving the productivity of the national economy. We, PSD, want a more productive and competitive country because, Mr. Members, a more productive and competitive country brings more growth, more employment, more well-being, more quality of life and better social services.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u56	All right! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u57	We have to look into the future, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. If we want an inclusive and competitive labour market, it must be agile and adaptable, but always in compliance with the law. If we want everyone to have access to a good job, a job that provides job security and fair income, then Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go back to the past. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u58	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today another legislative initiative of the Left Block, which aims once again to amend the Labour Code and which is called, somewhat pompously, « End of abusive clauses of geographical and functional mobility ». The Block is limited to proposing the elimination of two numbers of two different articles which provide that the parties may agree on matters of functional and territorial mobility — and we stress the word 'agreement'. That is, the Left Block, once again, wants to impose its will on the freedom of workers and companies and, on the way, also eliminate the possibility of expiry that was foreseen in these same articles. Finally, the truth is this: the Left Block considers that its will must overlap with that of the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u60	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u61	We note that it is the will of the Block, and now also of the PCP, to reverse labour legislation, and we all know that will. For them, it is indifferent that under the current legislation Portugal has managed to get out of the crisis, to have economic growth, to have managed to create more jobs. They are against the current Code of Labour by pure ideological prejudice... [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] ...and they don't want to know about the economy, increase job creation or workers. We also note that only yesterday, five more Left Bloc initiatives were announced with one fact in common: that of being 13. the amendment to the Labour Code — with regard to the bank of hours, the additional work, dismissal by termination of the job and by inadaption, to the final contracts, redundancies... in the substance, they seek a revision of the Labour Code in benefits, for which they present all these proposals without discussing them with the social partners and without seeking to reach any agreement in social consultation. The Socialist Party spoke recently of this proposal in concrete terms, but it was important for us to understand, after all, what the Socialist Party thinks of this revision of the Labour Code in benefits that its partners on the left. In fact, I remember that Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa last year said that it was a good time to stabilize labour legislation. After all, what are we in? As regards the increase in the minimum wage in 2018, they were unable to reach the agreement in social consultation because the government did not make that commitment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u62	Did anyone explain to you what we were discussing?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u63	After all, do you or do you not commit to maintaining the stability of labour law? Or are they available to pay the price, in benefits, of this review being made here, in the Assembly, by impulse of your left-wing partners? It is that, in reality, who will pay that price, then will be the Country, it will be the economy, it will be the companies and it will be the workers. It is good to clarify the Socialist Party's position on labour legislation for the year 2018. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u64	Mrs Rita Rato of the PCP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u65	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the PSD and the CDS may want to ignore reality, but, in fact, the reality lived in the workplace is not marked by friendship or so little by good sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u66	No one's talking about friendship!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u67	The reality lived in the workplace has been increasingly marked by pressures, blackmails, intimidations and impositions. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] That the ladies. Members of the CDS-PP don't want to know this either, I'm not surprised either, because Mr. Members are on the side of those who think that this should be the reality of workplaces. Because we understand exactly the opposite. The reality at the workplace must first ensure compliance with the law and fundamental rights. Unfortunately, today, that is not what happens. Mrs. Members, question: agreement between employers and workers in the workplace? Oh, my God! But can we talk in equal places at work? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u68	But has anyone spoken in equal parts?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u69	But does the right to work speak in equal parts or does it actually speak of protecting the weakest part in a working relationship, which is that of the workers? Oh, my God! For us, there is no doubt that much improvement is needed, from the very outset, in the defence of collective bargaining and in the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle. What we are discussing today is related to the objective of ensuring that the worker cannot see their geographical or functional mobility extended. We understand the scope and objective of this Bloc proposal and therefore follow it. Let us follow up on this proposal, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the amendment of paragraph 2 of each of these articles is limited. in our opinion it is necessary to amend Article 118. the, in particular with regard to the duties performed by the worker, and also Article 193. the, which determines the concept of « place of work », because it only changes the other articles without, in connection with them, alters, in our understanding, what the law says, in the sense that «the worker must, in principle, perform functions corresponding to the activity» and that «the worker must, in principle, exercise the activity in the contractually defined place», and which must be restricted. We therefore believe that these proposals are important but limited, so we will be able to work towards strengthening their objective. In fact, what is very clear and clear here is that neither for a surgical change, with limited effectiveness, PS, PSD and CDS are available. We are available to follow this proposal and are available to go further, amending articles 118. is 193. the, because that is decisive. What we really believe is that it is necessary to repeal the most serious standards of the Labour Code, imposed by the PSD and the CDS, because they greatly weaken labour relations. The rights of workers are not an obstacle to the development of the country, Mr. PS and PSD members. on the contrary, the rights of workers are a condition of development of the country, because there is no democratic regime without the rights of workers. Failure to comply with workers' rights is of a long time ago, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want a return to the past. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u70	All agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u71	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u72	Mr President, the idea that an agreement could not be reached is simply a lie because Article 129 is maintained. the Labour Code. But I am surprised at the radicalism of the PSD and CDS arguments and I would like to bring to the debate a moderate voice, that of Maria do Rosário Palma Ramalho, a legal reference of the PSD and CDS in the field of work and, indeed, of many other sectors. She says about the standard of geographical mobility, specifically — and I quote: "We all know the perverse results of this legal amendment. Since the 2003 Code, the majority of labour contracts have now had a geographical mobility clause, whereby the worker gives his consent in advance to future changes in the workplace, defined in the contract at the initiative of the employer, with more or less latitude. The result of this legislative amendment (')') continues this Professor of Law (') was indeed this: the worker agrees in that clause when he signs the contract because he does not have a great alternative, but hopes that it will not apply. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u73	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u74	I will finish, Mr. President. She adds: "The question is whether the geographical mobility clause can establish an indefinite extension of the workplace or a waiver of the licensing requirements of the transfer order. Do not keep on seeking. ” In other words, the question is whether there can be a standard in which the employer imposes on the worker who agrees to remove the law. Mrs. Members, this standard is a form of humiliation and numbness and the only moderate positions in this debate were the positions of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u75	This concludes the third item of our agenda. We turn to the assessment of petition No 283 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the assignment of a name to Montijo airport other than that of Mário Soares (Miguel Dias Melícias Vieira Lopes and others). at present, the Bureau does not record any entries. I would like to know whether any Member wishes to join this debate. [[Pause.]] For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The final proposal for the location of the new airport is not even approved. It is also not supposed to be the Assembly of the Republic to deliberate on the allocation of names to public equipment. We therefore hesitate to consider the admissibility of a statement on the petition here. We decided, however, to do so. Not that which in it is destroyed in time and mode, but because we did not want our silence to compromise with consciousness, provocation and betrayal to history for a second. [[P.S.'s applause.]] to the subscribers, assuming they have understood the text they signed, we proudly respond to the fact that we are here in this House to discuss dislates because freedom requires it. Paraphrasing freely Voltaire, we do not agree with what they say, but beat-CL - we will - always so that they can. Although, strangely, this petition recalls, yes, the immense legacy of Mário Soares. Everyone, even the subscribers of this petition, knows it, and some, perhaps, have promoted it. We did not reach our Second Republic without the resistance to authoritarian oppression of the New State—and there was Mário Soares! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u77	We did not build our state of democratic law without the main protagonist of Mário Soares! We do not reinsert Portugal in our contemporary world without its civic frontality, without the weight of its convictions and reflection on many of its indignation and uncertainties! We could also remind these less than 10 000 the almost 3 million and a half Portuguese who elected and re-elected Mário Soares as President of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Above all, I would like to remind you of the 10 million which in Portugal owe you both freedom and democracy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u78	Freitas do Amaral, his opponent in the first presidential election, recalls him as the largest Portuguese politician of the 20th century. Mário Soares lived the first 49 years of his life without knowing, in his country, respect for public and individual rights, freedoms and guarantees. He never became afraid, but he never stopped suffering for it, something that none of the petitioners will complain about while living in the regime in which he was — and that is! — reference figure. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u79	Mrs. Members, the Bureau shall not register any other entries. I ask, once again, whether any Member of the other parliamentary groups would like to use the floor in this circumstance. Otherwise, we will continue our agenda, which has one more point. [[Pause.]] by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we always do in the examination of petitions, which comply with the Rules of Procedure and with the law of petitions, as is the case with this, I would like to begin by complimenting the petitioners. Having done this compliment, I mean that this petition is extemporaneous. And why is she extemporaneous? Because there is no airport, there is even no decision to build a new airport in Montijo and, if we look carefully at the documents that are the State Budget and the investment plan of the infrastructure of Portugal, we find that nothing is in place for 2018 about the new airport. There is nothing in the Budget, there is nothing in this investment plan, there is only one intention of the government to build a new airport. I will therefore conclude by saying that it is up to the Government to fulfil the promise of having a new airport, that it is up to the Government to decide which name to assign to that new airport if it exists. In fact, this petition is currently being submitted, although it meets — and that is why we are discussing it — the exercise of the right to petition. On this matter, the CDS will say nothing more. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u81	I now give the floor to Mr António Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is tradition that the PSD always greet all petitioners who present petitions in the Assembly of the Republic. We do it again. But we also believe that the language included in this petition does not seem to us in any way the most appropriate within the framework of what must be a petition in the Assembly of the Republic. Nevertheless, because of the respect we deserve the memory of Dr. Mário Soares and many others who have died fighting for freedom of expression and democracy, it seems to us that the petition should, of course, be discussed in this House of the Republic. We cannot have limitations in this respect, your memory demands us. In fact, many men who have fought for democracy and for freedom of expression deserve that respect indeed. I also believe that, given the petition presented here, and even if this Montijo project — it is understood as Montijo Civil Airport — is far from being a reality, being just an ad behind an ad, it is — and cannot be otherwise — a very extemporaneous petition, even if it brought the proper language to this Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, for the respect that Mário Soares deserves, I say and repeat: the PSD has always understood that ideas must be defended and fought for them, but never fight against men. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u83	With no further inscriptions, we move to the next item on our agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 294 / XIII ( 2. a ) — They request access to specialized medical training for all physicians (Afonso Maria da Silva Moreira and others) together with, in general, Bill No. 733 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May 2015 establishing the legal regime of specialized medical training with a view to obtaining the degree of specialist and laying down the general principles to which the respective procedure ( CFP ) and draft resolutions No 1232 / XIII ( 3 ) must be followed. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, as a matter of urgency, open a speciality invitation to tender for all newly trained doctors, ensuring good conditions for training and the increase in the number of vacancies, that, under Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May, it ensure that training is awarded in all establishments meeting the requirements necessary for this purpose, in accordance with the proposal of the Medical Order, irrespective of the sector to which they belong, and that under Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May, open vacancies for medical detention in all establishments with training qualifications ( CDS-PP ) and 1237 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures to ensure specialized training for all physicians ( BE ). For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words of the CFP Parliamentary Group are to greet the petitioners present here and the more than 4000 citizens who signed this petition. This is a petition that once again allows Parliament to discuss a topic that is important not only for doctors who are without access to specialized medical training but also for the National Health Service ( SNS ). We are back in this debate because, despite the CFP's insistent submission of proposals that would solve the problem of current and future doctors, what happens is that the PS, PSD and CDS systematically refuse to approve and apply the measures that the CFP presented here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u86	The problem under discussion has causes and causes, and it is important to say that those responsible were all those who, over the years, applied right-wing policy — the governments of the PS, the PSD and the CDS, which in the National Health Service closed proximity services, caused mergers, forced thousands of doctors who had the responsibility to provide training to these young doctors to leave the National Health Service temporarily. It was the same policy that still creates enormous difficulties for the National Health Service with regard to its formative fitness. by withdrawing this suitability, it has in fact forced thousands of doctors not to have access to specialized medical training. Among other factors, specialized medical training was what allowed the medical training of Portugal to be recognized worldwide. But here in Parliament too, there are responsible — the PSD and the CDS-PP — for the amendment of the medical care scheme, which has facilitated and promoted the precariousness and existence of these undifferentiated doctors. What the CFP once again reintroduces here today are the changes that are going to improve the regime of medical care. And because we believe that the country cannot in fact allow a layer of undifferentiated doctors to exist, we have created, in this diploma, a transitional regime which provides for the opening of vacancies for those who have not yet had access to training, and so that in the future no more doctors who have done their training will have access to specialized medical training. We present this proposal with the clear aim of correcting the serious error of the PSD and CDS-PP, but above all to value medical training in Portugal, to value the provision of health care and the National Health Service, which has been so fiercely attacked. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u87	You now have the floor, for an intervention, by the CDS-PP, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners here and thank them too for the opportunity to speak today of postgraduate medical training, a subject to which the CDS has devoted the greatest attention. Because it is a topic of the greatest importance and of the greatest currentity, it should be recalled today that, in fact, there are very serious gaps in the human resources of the National Health Service as regards medical specialists. This government — I repeat, this government — has to make decisions and has to open vacancies and competitions for these specialized doctors, but since November we have questioned the Minister of Health and we have no answer. There's a contest coming from last year. We have over 700 doctors able to enter the National Health Service and it is this government that, in fact, does not want to hire these doctors, who is a hostage of the Minister of Finance, who does not take steps to effectively make more doctors specialists in the National Health Service. In fact, these doctors were never as low in the National Health Service as they are today! Five years ago, it was more than 20,000, today it is less than 18,000! Whose responsibility is it? Let us see, in fact, who rules today and we will not take the blame for the past. We mean we've been following this subject for a long time. We have already presented a number of initiatives and we are presenting today a draft resolution in order to speed up access to specialty, always on the assumption that quality issues have to be met and respect the training suitability so that doctors can perform quality training, because it is not desirable training without quality, as it is not desirable — for us it is clear, and we have already said so many times — the existence of doctors who are indifferent to the National Health Service. By insisting also that new doctors should be trained in the right conditions — the same is to say that they meet criteria of suitability — we cannot deal with the ideological prejudice that leads not to open all vacancies available in credible institutions, whether they are in the social sector or in the private sector, in fact, those institutions that are currently discriminated against in terms of funding the training that is already being done for new doctors in boarding schools. I would therefore like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is in the interest of the Portuguese, in the defence of the quality of health care and the SNS, that this government — which governs us today — ceases to invest in the SNS, ceases to be hostage of the Minister of Finance and passes from words to acts. They are more than kind announcements that doctors do not cease to point out as successive delays in promises that are not fulfilled. It is therefore indeed necessary to invest in the SNS, in particular in the training of their human resources. That is why they count on the CDS, and we hope that the government will comply with its share. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u89	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, and on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the more than 4000 petitioners, some and some of whom are attending the debate here. Good afternoon to all and to all. The claim these petitioners bring to the Assembly of the Republic is access to specialized training by all doctors and all doctors. It is a claim that the Left Block accompanies and has defended, because it is important for doctors and, above all, for users. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, when one or one of us wants to go to an emergency, it will certainly be preferred to be attended by a specialist doctor than by an undifferentiated doctor. When someone travels to a general and family medical consultation, he certainly wants to be attended by a specialist in general and family medicine and not by an undifferentiated doctor. Therefore, yes, these claims are important to combat the precariousness and low salaries of doctors, but, above all, they are important to users. The truth is that the National Health Service needs more specialists. We continue to have hundreds of thousands of users without a family doctor, there are waiting lists for hospital specialties, which shows that there is really a great shortage in certain specialties in the National Health Service and therefore does not make sense that Portugal wastes, year after year, hundreds of doctors who could be specialists and work as such, but who are unable to access the specialty. In 2015, 114 doctors were prevented from accessing the specialty ; in 2016, they were 158 ; and in 2017, they were more than 340. What is estimated is that, if nothing is done, up to 2021 there will be 4,000 undifferentiated doctors, without any speciality to be released into the system. Therefore, it is the precariousness and degradation of the system itself. The changes that the previous PSD/CDS-PP government has made to the medical care system have boosted this situation because they have broken the training continuity, promoted the existence of undifferentiated persons and the precariousization of new doctors who do not access the specialty. Therefore, what we have to do and what the Left Block proposes with its legislative initiative is that the training continuity, that there is in the legal regime of medical boarding the principle of access to specialized training for all doctors who finish their degree, that guarantees the universality of such access to specialized training and that the government invests in the SNS, in order to increase the vacancies and training capacities of the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u91	I now give the floor to Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Compliance with the more than 4000 citizens who subscribe to petition No 294 / XIII ( 2. a ), which seek access to specialized medical training for all physicians, insurging against the existence of undifferentiated doctors. I would like to begin by stressing the quality of medical education in Portugal with regard to pre- and post-graduate training as a regime of excellence in quality and equitable opportunities to be preserved. The actual training needs are due to the training capacities of the services, the number of trainers, who are increasingly scarce, the number of candidates and their choices and the technical differentiation of the services. The choice phase of a specialty is very important in the life of a young doctor, because, in fact, it determines his future, and it is also, consequently, in the life of the users, who are the main beneficiaries of that choice. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, of all the doctors who are working in Portugal, only 65% work in the National Health Service — this is an imbalance to be corrected. in the last five years, 3000 clinicians have left the public service, more than half were in health centers—this is another imbalance to correct. There have never been so many medical graduates in Portugal, but there are fewer doctors in the National Health Service — a new imbalance to reverse. Finally, in the path of imbalances, we have an aging medical demography, enhanced by deep regional asymmetries and a lack of timely planning of the choice of the most deprived specialities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we know, the problem is indeed these imbalances, the organization and distribution of resources. Therefore, in the face of a generational renewal, a reorganization plan, an incentive to choose the most deprived areas and the most unprotected geographical regions, a timely and cross-sectional planning of the system, which starts in access to college and ends in the real needs of the country. Mrs. Petitioners, I recall that only the Order of Physicians can assign formative fitness. Strengthening, only the Order of Physicians can assign training capacity, and such competence stems from opening the number of vacancies for specialized training. Mrs. Petitioners, opening vacancies for graduate assistants and elders and consultants is a clear sign for older doctors to find motivation on their career journey so that in the coming years there is the possibility of the Medical Order considering greater capacity and opening more vacancies. The system is not infinitely elastic and therefore I reaffirm this need for readjustment. Our commitment, the commitment of the Socialist Party, will be to continue the work of continuous monitoring of medical training in order to ensure the increase in the fixing of young doctors in the SNS, thereby strengthening their quality of response, quality of training and equity in access. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party exercises civic pedagogy not based on facilitation, looks beyond the conveniences or corporate interests and thus proves that its design is the best interest of the Portuguese and the health of our citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u93	To close this agenda item, I believe, Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliament today is debating a petition through which 4138 young Portuguese citizens, who take advantage of to greet in a special way, ask for the fair and, more than fair, important access to specialized medical training. I want to make it clear that, for the Social Democratic Party, putting the medical specialization in question is not only the future of these young professionals, but also, above all, the quality of the National Health Service itself. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this regard, we must also make a historical perspective, a perspective which has been a bit or as per the Block of the Left, a bit or as referred to by the Portuguese Communist Party, and which has been faked and diverted by the Socialist Party, but ultimately the three joints correspond to the same objective: political deresponsibility. Mr President, I almost dare say—and forgive me the style—that I shall be old enough to be a grandfather and the gentlemen who sit on that bench, about any efemerid of the country, they will continue to say « the blame is on Dr. Steps Rabbit, the fault is on the Democratic Social Party, the fault is on the CDS-PP ». These gentlemen have been ruling the country since 2015 and remain in a de-responsibility attitude that undermines not only the future of young Portuguese doctors, but also the quality of the National Health Service. I make this historical retrospective to say the following: by 2015, all young doctors had access to specialized medical training; in 2015, 114 young doctors were without access; in 2016, were 158 ; and in 2017, you know how many were there! Question: Who has ruled Portugal in recent years? Is it the PSD and the CDS or are you the gentlemen? Or is it the PS with the convivence of the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens? [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all of this happened without the Government giving a full response and with the convivence of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. This shows a terrible and worrying reality of waste of human resources, occurring, for example, of this inconsistency, of this lack of planning, dramatic and worrying situations, such as those that were recently reported, unfortunately, in which we have young doctors to be exploited, to violate the rules of medical career, to be forced and forced to make emergencies. This is a worrying situation, which requires an integrated and structural planning of all medical training in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u95	You didn't worry about it before!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u96	The government's inability to create this structural solution has unfortunately contributed to the removal of hundreds of young Portuguese doctors from the National Health Service. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the PSD considers that the Government should, in collaboration with the Medical Order, carry out an exhaustive study of the training skills, training qualifications, but should do so without ideological prejudice, not only in the National Health Service, but in the national health system. Why not in the private sector? Why not in the social sector, since, of course, the scientific and technical requirements that are required are met? Mr. President, to remove this vision by ideological questions is to cut off the future of young Portuguese doctors and cut off the quality of the SNS itself. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u97	We move on to the sixth item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of petition No 300 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They call for measures to ensure equal working conditions among all teachers ( António Carlos Carvalho and others) together with draft resolution No 1236 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to regulate schedules, combat wear and improve working conditions of teachers ( BE ). To initiate this debate, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u98	Mr President, we welcome all the teachers and all the teachers, petitioners and petitioners who have sent us an appeal, which is common to all the teachers and all the teachers, regarding a problem that is already identified and that has to do with the degradation of the working conditions of the teachers. The working conditions of the teachers are, of course, very linked to the ability that each teacher has to face a class, every day, in the classroom, but also with the time and quality of the time each teacher has to devote to each student and each student, which is closely linked, therefore, to fatigue, burnout and also to the issues of indiscipline that occur in the classroom. Of course the working conditions have particularities, those of 1. the cycle is not the same as pre-school or secondary. in the case of pre-school or 1. the cycle, in which are the teachers who address this petition, the specificities have to do with monodoc. The existence of only one teacher responsible for a class is a pedagogical practice that has been very careful but has its own requirements. If these requirements do not correspond to their own working conditions, this is an extremely tiresome model of teaching for teachers who work in it. Within the requirements of each cycle, within each disciplinary area, there will be specificities, but we have managed to find common elements, factors of degradation of working conditions, and one of them has to do with changes in educational policies, such as the increase in the number of students per class, the change of programs and the change of curricula, all things that we have been dealing with and that we have to continue to deal with. The second degradation factor has to do with the working hours and with the increasing confusion and arbitraryness in defining the educational and non-formal component that leads to an increase in the bureaucratic burden on teachers' shoulders, which is not disconnected from the decrease in the number of employees who have these responsibilities in schools. That is to say, in practice, it is a question of putting a formal job in the non-formal component, creating an overload in relation to the hours of work of teachers who make teachers work much more than 35 hours a week, the rule in the Public Administration, in order to be able to carry out all their tasks. The third degradation factor has to do with aging, which has two peculiarities: one is the constant increase in the retirement age, which has represented a nightmare, and it is a nightmare that teachers have to face every day; the other has to do with the absence of measures that compensate teachers for the natural fatigue that occurs with age. The report on the state of education says that Portuguese teachers are extremely qualified but feel that they are not recognised and that they are the ones most accused of overwork, and that is why we have to find solutions. We are now in a negotiating period between the unions and the government and, without prejudice to future initiatives that the Left Block wants to present, and will bring them here, we think this is the time to tell the Government that the Left Block does not abdicate that, in negotiations, it is time to be demanding. And time to be demanding with public school is time to be demanding with rights and with justice that is due to teachers and teachers who guarantee the quality of that same public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u99	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u100	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why we propose five measures for the Government to steer by them in negotiations, for the aging of the teaching body, for the introduction of equality in the amendment of the number of hours of the educational component by 22 hours in paragraph 1. the cycle, to standardize the educational component reductions for older teachers and to clarify what is educational component and what is non-formal component to ensure that all the work that is done with students is introduced into the educational component.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u101	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u102	And, therefore, there is no overload of teachers' work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u103	Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS, I should like to congratulate the subscribers of the petition. essentially, in this petition, the working conditions of teachers of 1 are concerned. the cycle, in particular as regards the weekly schedule and its reductions and thus, once again, access to retirement. It is intended to point out that the Left Block has tabled a motion for a resolution which adds the theme of the educational and non-formal component. in several times when these themes were raised, the CDS, when speaking, acknowledged, with all the frontality, that the working conditions have changed in an undeniable way. It is worth remembering that this has happened since the consulate of Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues, Minister of Education of the Socialist Government. The Parliamentary Group of the CDS has consistently argued that teachers are increasingly taking on roles, functions and interventions that they can and should be considered as going well beyond what determines their Statute. Turning now to the question of the division of the weekly hours of teachers in an educational and non-formal component, the significant increase in work resulting from the non-formal component of the establishments is clearly highlighted. in this context, it is emphasized the obligation of teachers to stay much more hours in school, either in support of the study and follow-up of various activities, either by co-adjudication and ensuring tutorials or curriculum reinforcement, finally, a myriad of tasks! Of all this, it results, undeniable and inevitably, an overload of times and a greater complexity in its organization. Will there be anyone who doesn't recognize him? Yes, we are! In addition, there is no clear definition of activities with students, including those that are part of the educational component, on the one hand, and those that should not be carried out under the non-formal component, on the other. This lack of definition has led to abuses of interpretation which, without doubt, must be resolved. What we have just mentioned does not apply only to teachers of 1. the cycle, this panorama is also that of teachers of the 2. the 3rd cycle. the cycle and secondary. So we cannot but be in solidarity with what the petitioners generally refer to. However, we cannot fully agree with the content of the petition. Indeed, the working conditions in the other teaching cycles with which they are compared are not exactly those mentioned. Without prejudice, it is unquestionable that the teaching career is long and exhausting, physically and emotionally, so much so that there is the need, which is imposed, a serious reflection on the specificities of the career. The status of the teaching career, in its entirety, must ensure harmony, coherence and equity in the treatment of the whole class, so on the one hand, there must be care to provide for different treatment for objectively different situations and, on the other, of course, the significant discrepancies that occur between the various teaching cycles should be avoided. It is a matter which, in our view, will require consensus in the final decision in addition to much work and reflection. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u105	Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group begins by welcoming the signatories of the petition currently under discussion. The 1st. the cycle of basic education is essential in the school course of students, because, right here, knowledge is acquired and developed fundamental capacities for their future. however, over the last few years, the policies of successive governments have completely disfigured the school of 1. the cycle of basic education. The organization of 1. the cycle must depend, above all, on pedagogical criteria and response to students, in respect of workers' rights, and not on financial availability or resources that subaltern the fundamental role of education in individual and collective development. It is in this context that the CFP has to question the draft resolution presented by BE today, at the only point that has a more direct link to the petitioners' proposals. That is, the change in the number of hours of the educational component of pre-school and 1 teachers. the basic education cycle for 22 hours. We need to ask how this proposal articulates with the current monodocnic regime n° 1. the cycle, because, one thing is right, one can't reduce from 25 to 22 hours, have old-age reductions and maintain monodoc. Do you really intend to end monodoc? Oh, my God! This is because ending monodoc is not a taboo, but a whole reorganization of 1 is needed. the cycle, and it is urgent to ask: which and how? So, what are you defending? What's going on for adjuvant monodoc? If that is the case, at least the class holder will have to stay with the class all the time. But how would it apply in concrete? Come on, how does the Basics Law in the Education System point out for the educational teams? Oh, my God! But how and when should we set up these teams? Do we adopt a multi-doctoral regime? Oh, my God! Although, on the pedagogical level, this could not bring any problem — the question, says the CFP, to ascertain, too, with the contribution of specialists, what would be the qualifications of those responsible for the various areas of the curriculum? Would it be the teachers' choice? Oh, my God! Would they be teachers of other cycles? Oh, my God! And how would all this articulate with the 2nd. the cycle? It would be the merger of 1. o is 2. or cycles? Oh, my God! Those are questions we left. The CFP is not against any of these hypotheses, but defends that they have to be widely discussed. The existence of an equal time in all cycles will be desirable, but we cannot decide questions with this magnitude without discussing everything that this involves, making generic proposals without clarifying the path that is necessary to take, consequently. The CFP therefore believes that it is time for a broad debate on the organization of 1. the cycle—this is what we propose— by addressing matters such as schedules, the strict definition of the content of the educational and non-formal component, the measures to combat the existence of mixed classes, the reference standards for the formation of classes and distribution of service, the mechanisms that have taken into account the enormous wear caused by the exercise of the profession and the conditions of retirement. And so we will intervene in this direction. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u107	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, I welcome the subscribers of the petition. Highlights of the documents under review, particularly draft resolution No 1236/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the Left Block, two subjects which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers relevant, the first being the adjustment of the number of hours of education. As a result of careful analysis, we believe that in the draft resolution of the Left Block there are proposals that will call into question monodocency in pre-school education and 1. the cycle, with which we cannot agree, given its pedagogical relevance. The status of the teaching career makes a clear distinction between monodocency and pluridocence. Each of the models applies in a distinct and differentiated way, justifying itself according to the specificities of each of them. We cannot treat in the same way what is substantially different and the proposals put forward in this matter conflict with the specificities of pre-school and 1. the cycle, in contrast to the other cycles, whose current model is that of pluridocence. It is unquestionable for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that it would be a pedagogical mistake to make a change to the model of monodocency in force in pre-school education and 1. the cycle. The second subject is the definition of the educational and non-formal components resulting from reductions in the educational component. According to the status of the teaching career, the reductions in the educational component, resulting from the age and time of service of teachers, determine the increase of the non-formal component, at the level of establishment, while maintaining the compulsory provision by the teacher, of 35 hours of weekly service. It must be stated that the status of the teaching career and the Basics Law of the Educational System are being fulfilled. However, we know very well that the teachers covered by these reductions are, of course, the older ones. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that the strong ageing of the teaching class is a matter that should be addressed, consequently, and should be the subject of a study that seeks sustainable structural solutions, in order to make an adjustment of the teaching functions to the different phases of the teaching career. We also consider that the relevant role of teachers with more experience is crucial so that the intergenerational transmission of knowledge and competences is a reality, also in school and education environment, but the draft resolution of the Left Block does not meet this aspect and could even contradict it. The work to be carried out effectively in the non-formal component must be subject to a stopped weighting, so that the activities to be carried out by teachers can be adjusted to the successive phases of their career. It is unquestionable that investing in the improvement of the teaching condition, as a factor of recognition, appreciation and dignity of teachers, is a permanent objective of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party and of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u109	To close this point, Mrs Laura Magalhães has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss petition No 300 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) from the initiative of Mr António Carvalho and subscribed by more than 4000 petitioners, which the PSD welcomes. The petitioners request the adoption of measures to ensure equal working conditions among all teachers as well as the application of a transitional system to compensate pre-school and pre-school teachers. the cycle of basic education by increasing the length of educational service provided throughout the career, compared to teachers of the other levels of education. The petitioners also intend that in pre-school education there is a pedagogical partnership to teach a few hours, as well as to have the function of completing the hours of group educators. Already on 1st. the cycle, the petitioners want the areas of expressions to be taught by teachers with specific training, leaving this to be done by the teacher holder of class. It is also mentioned that petitioners suggest the implementation of a transitional phase, for which a reduction in the age currently required for access to retirement should be defined, based on the time already taught in monodoc. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this last point is already a bit of a recurring matter, particularly when we talk about transitional arrangements, when we talk about the creation of retirement schemes for teachers or even compensation for service time. The PSD considers that the teaching class has considerable physical, psychological and emotional wear, and therefore it is necessary to take into account its specificities. And here, in this Chamber, we have already said, in a previous debate on this matter, but we remember it as often as necessary, that whoever revoked the special retirement system for teachers of basic education and 1. the cycle was the Socialist Party in 2005 in the Government of Eng.o José Socrates — and we do not forget this. Regarding all the other matters brought by this petition, the PSD does not, as it has never done, analyze all these matters lightly. We understand and are not indifferent to these concerns, but it is necessary to consider the pedagogical implications and the sustainability of this position in a matter where access to all information is absolutely essential, because that is the only way we can make good decisions. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this data, unfortunately, is only the government that has them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-18.u111	Mrs. Members, thus, with the conclusion of the assessment of petition No 300 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and draft resolution No 1236 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a) we have reached the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow, Friday, at 10 a.m. with the following agenda: First of all, we jointly assess draft resolutions Nos 993 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Proposals for solutions to the problems of wood production ( CFP ), 994 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a programme for the reduction and control of forest biomass ( CFP ) and 1231 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a programme to promote the use of agroforestry biomass for self-consumption ( CDS-PP ). Secondly, draft resolutions Nos 1006 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed together. ( a ) — Programme for monitoring and minimization of wild fauna in the national road network ( The Greens ), 1238 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake an impact assessment of the outbreak of animal husbandry in the ecosystem and adopts preventive measures in accordance with the results ( NAP) and 1233 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures for monitoring and mitigating the road running of animals ( BE ). in the third point, we have the discussion of petition No 344 / XIII ( 2. a ) — They request the inclusion of personal planning project in the curriculum of education in Portugal ( Sonia Márcia Gonçalves et al.). in the fourth point, we will discuss together petition No 224 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the creation of standards for the protection of unskilled investors ( ALBOA — Association of Lesados ) and draft resolutions 1228 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government stop solving the problem of unqualified damage to BANIF and BES / GES ( PSD ), 1229 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the establishment of an arbitral, prompt and expeditious mechanism for the resolution of emerging disputes in the sale and marketing of financial products to unskilled investors by credit institutions subject to resolution measures ( CDS-PP ), 1230 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Protection of unqualified investors of BANIF ( PS ) and 1235 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government speed up the identification process of fraudulent practices in the marketing of financial products in the BES / GES and BANIF ( BE ) processes. Fifthly, we will jointly consider petitions Nos 298 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request the identification of mis-selling practices as well as the condemnation of commercial proposals submitted by the New Bank, SA ( AMELP — Association of Portuguese-Lesados Immigration Movement ) and 341 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request a parliamentary investigation to be carried out culminating in a recommendation for compensation or reduction of damage to the damage caused by BES ( ABESD — Association for the Defence of Banking Clients ). Sixth place, we have 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2018, without time. In seventh place, also timeless, we have draft resolution 1241 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Endorses opinion on the proposal for a Council decision adopting provisions amending the act on the election of members of the European Parliament by universal suffrage ( Committee on European Affairs). Eighth place, and also without time, are the projects of lein.o 734 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Approves the system of professional mediation activity in the representation of interests ( PS ) and 735 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the registration regime of private entities performing representation of interests ( PS ) and draft resolution No 1239 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Code of Conduct of Members to the Assembly of the Republic ( PS ). In the ninth place, and yet without time, we have the motions for resolutions 59 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Treaty between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Cape Verde on the Joint Monitoring of Maritime Spaces under the Sovereignty or Jurisdiction of the Republic of Cape Verde, signed in Lisbon on 17 December 2014, and 60 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Headquarters Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Permanent Arbitration Court, signed in Lisbon, on 16 June 2017. Tenth place, and also no time, is draft resolution No 1242/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Designation of the Single Prosecutor of the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ) ( PSD and PS ). Finally, we will have a scheduled period of votes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 54 minutes.]]
