ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, the drafts of lein. 921 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — In addition to the IRS Code, in order to allow lessons on subjects of official school in schools and study rooms and explanations to be deducted as educational expenditure ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 923 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It is not possible to make meals in the canteens of educational establishments containing processed meat, ensuring greater quality in school meals ( NAP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 924 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the non-distribution of milk to pre-school and 1-school children. the basic education cycle, ensuring greater quality in school meals ( NAP), which falls to 8. the Commission, 925 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Certain conditions for the limitation of products harmful to health on automatic sales machines of educational establishments with a view to the adoption of healthy eating habits and ensuring the quality of school meals ( NAPs ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 926 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Public management of school canteens ( CFP ), which falls to 8. It also entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft deliberation No 20/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requests the National Council for Education to study in-depth on the main options for a selection and recruitment scheme for pre-school and basic and secondary education ( PS ) teaching staff. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 1705 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that immigration legalisation procedures be streamlined and that the exceptional humanitarian framework be promoted by immigrants who demonstrate that they enter the labour market for a period of more than one year ( PS ), which falls below 1. the Commission, 1706 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the social agreement and that it propose measures within the framework of labour law ( CDS-PP ), 1707 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the recruitment of nature watchers and career enhancements, ending the existing definition of their future ( CFP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1708 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 232 / 2017 of 20 September, act with the Canadian authorities to expedite the procedures necessary for the increase in the import quota provided for in the CETA ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 1709 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit a timetable for the construction of the new central hospital in Algarve ( PS ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1710 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess compliance with Law No 27 / 2016 and continue to invest in sterilisation and awareness campaigns ( PAN), 1711 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to resolve environmental problems related to the processing of the olive slurry ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1712 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the Basic and Secondary School Santos Simões, Guimarães ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1713 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government speed up the recruitment processes of health professionals for the National Health Service ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1714 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote further studies on technical and economic viability and the potential for the development of the modernisation of the Douro Line and the replacement of its connection with the Spanish rail network ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1715 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the impact of the application of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August prohibiting the slaughter of errant animals as a form of control of the population, favouring sterilization ( PCP ), 1716 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the assessment of means of incentive and protection of original and non-profit cultural events ( PS ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1717 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Elimination of pollution caused by the olive slurry extraction company in the town of Fortes, Ferreira do Alentejo ( Os Verdes ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1718 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the creation of an organic structure, affects the Directorate-General for Education, responsible for food education in school, for the defense of quality meals in Portugal ( PAN ), 1719 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the necessary amendments to the Order approving the Integrated Quality and Quantity Control Plan for Meals served in Education and Public Education Establishments for the defense of quality meals in Portugal ( PAN ) and 1720 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to promote the quality of school meals ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us then get on the agenda, the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister on the Plurianual Financial Framework and the National Investment Plan — Portugal 2030, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. To open the debate, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The moment Europe is living is too important for the preparation of the next European Council to be summed up in a mere regiment debate. The next week's summit focuses on fundamental issues of our future: migration, euro area reform and the Plurianual Financial Framework. Europe is first and foremost a union of values, and it is values that we talk about when we discuss Europe that we want to build together. It was the values that brought Portugal to Europe, in order to consolidate the reconquered democracy, to be able to share a common space of freedom, security, peace and prosperity. in recent years, the European Union has experienced a series of crises that have beaten it in its foundations, but none of the challenges ahead — whether migration or climate change, instability at our external borders or terrorism, globalisation or digital transition — will be better solved outside the European Union by each Member State alone, regardless of whether more populous or more prosperous. We will not be able to respond to the global challenges facing Europe if we fail to promote convergence within the European Union, if we do not know how to build a true Union, which is more coherent, economically, socially and politically. For this to be possible, we have two clear priorities: to conclude economic and monetary union and to provide the Union with resources in accordance with its responsibilities and the challenges we have to face. The 2008 financial crisis exposed the structural weaknesses of the euro area. Many of them remain unresolved; asymmetries and imbalances among their members reduce potential growth and question the stability of this currency that we wanted to be common. As long as economic and monetary union remains incomplete, the risks of new crises will be greater and any mature monetary union must have budgetary capacity. We are pleased to see the consensus on this priority being broadened, as demonstrated by the proposal made yesterday by France and Germany for the creation of this budget capacity in 2021, while at the same time considering stabilization mechanisms in the face of crises and investment support for convergence. in the same sense, we support the European Commission's proposal to set up an instrument to support reforms within the framework of the multiannual financial framework. The proposal goes in the right direction, along with what we have proposed, despite the fact that its amount is below what is necessary and the key to distribution is totally inadequate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The confidence of citizens in Europe depends on their ability to fulfill what they are promised. We cannot promise more security in the face of external threats and terrorism; we cannot promise greater cooperation with Africa, better management of the external border and integration of immigrants; we cannot promise more investment in research and development; and we cannot promise more growth and employment without providing Europe with the resources necessary to meet these commitments. We cannot continue to promise too much and to miss. All Member States must therefore be willing to contribute with the resources necessary for the European Union to comply with what its citizens require. Portugal supports the efforts of the European Commission in this regard and is prepared to increase its contribution to the Union budget. Some feed on the illusion that more is enough to do with less, but if we want to respond well to new challenges we must start by not sacrificing what we have already done well, such as cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy (CAP). Moreover, because these policies, despite being traditional and being Union's own identity marks, also contribute to meeting the challenges of the future. For example, the common agricultural policy, in addition to ensuring food security, needs to make an increased contribution to tackling climate change and cohesion policy must contribute to the prevention of radicalisation in various peripheries or urban centres and must focus more on people as an instrument of the social pillar. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We recognize that thanks to a joint work with the European Commission, we now have a new starting point which constitutes progress towards the original document that has been presented. However, there is still no improvement. Firstly, co-financing rates should not be altered, because it makes no sense to overburden the national budget when we pursue such a demanding adjustment effort as we have been doing. Secondly, to continue the successful modernisation effort of our agriculture we must continue to reduce the differential between the 205 € / ha received by Portugal, compared to the 260 € / ha of the European average. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, we cannot deal equally with what is unequal, accepting a cut of 15 % in support of rural development, when in the specific case of Portugal these support constitute 50 % of all transfers under the CAP. Fourthly, the principle of convergence must have a cross-cutting dimension to all policies, and it cannot be absent, for example, from the Horizon Europe programme or the Defense programme, which must have, in part and without prejudice to its centralised and competitive management, indicative national envelopes. These will be the principles that we will defend in the European Council in an effort that must continue, in a broad national consensus, such as what we have all expressed internally, both in the different European institutions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has been clear in its intention to debate in this Assembly of the Republic the strategic options that will define our country's opportunities in the next decade. We did so when we brought here the debate on the National Reform Programme. We did so when, at the beginning of this year, I presented in this House the priorities for the next Multiannual Financial Framework. We did so yesterday when we opened the public debate of the National Investment Programme 2030, anticipating the planning cycle based on the financial perspectives for 2021 - 2027. That was the same conviction, that strategic choices should deserve extended commitments, which led us to assume, soon in the Government Programme — and to break off from a past where investment decisions were too dependent on political cycles, with costs of delay and lost opportunities for the country — that infrastructure investment programmes of great importance should be discussed, appreciated and voted in this House by the widest possible majority, possibly by a two-thirds majority. We therefore wish to pursue a debate that guarantees strategic coherence, broad participation and an informed, timely and stable decision to build together the future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now enter the debate stage. To put questions to you, you have the floor first of all Mr Fernando Negrão of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u6	Mr President, I welcome Mr Prime Minister, as well as the honourable Members. Ministers and the Ministers. State Secretaries accompanying him. Mr Prime Minister, I begin by saying a word of follow-up and greeting to the work that has been done by the European Parliament. And why for the European Parliament? Because the European Parliament has been able to implement cohesion and solidarity policy, as is its duty in Europe. And let me point out a Member of the Committee on Budgets and have done some defence work in countries that are beyond the growth average in Europe. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u7	His name is José Manuel Fernandes. I think we're all in agreement with that. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to address an issue which is not normally referred to when it comes to Community funds and which has to do with Community funds relating to the sea for 2021 - 2027. We all know that the Commission proposes that over EUR 6 billion be allocated for this period for a simpler, more flexible and more dedicated fund for the maritime economy. In other words, it is less than EUR 500 million compared with the previous programme, which involves a loss of 2, 7 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u8	Perca is a fish!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u9	Not being little, Prime Minister, it's little. And it is little, because it is foreseeable that Portugal — and this will shortly be a decision by the United Nations by 2020 — will see its territory extended up to 4 million square kilometres. This will be the extent of the national territory, which represents more than 35 % of the current national territory. In addition, they will increase competences. Skills extend beyond the traditional sectors of the sea, such as fishing and aquaculture, and they go to biotechnology, to ocean energy, to coastal tourism, to ocean governance, to safety, among others. Mr Prime Minister, this matter is important enough to ask you the following question: how does it explain that, seeing our territory grow in this way, as well as its competences, the corresponding funds have decreased? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u10	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u11	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, we are currently at a stage when the process is still under negotiation. What we know is the Commission's proposals. as a whole, between the initial proposal and the present proposal, there was a positive but we considered insufficient. We therefore need to continue the work that we have been doing and, as we have done in an articulated manner, in particular with our Members of the European Parliament. And it is not hard for me to recognize the work that has been done, as rapporteur, by Mr José Manuel Fernandes. It is important that this national convergence continues, because these funds are not for the government, they are for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u13	And it is essential that Portugal can have in cohesion, agriculture, the sea, science, defence, and all areas as much funding as possible, since we need to increase our investment and we are highly dependent on Community transfers to make this investment. That is why it is necessary to continue. With regard to each of the funds, we must examine and seek the most appropriate response in order to achieve the best possible result. That is the attitude of the Government and certainly the attitude of all the banks in this House of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u14	You have the floor again to ask further questions, Mr Fernando Negrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u15	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you have not answered me, because you know that evolution is not positive, that evolution is negative. When we lose money, it's because evolution is negative. We want more, even because it will increase our territorial space, as well as our intervention powers in this territorial area. Mr. Prime Minister has not given me an answer, only said that there is a positive evolution, when the evolution we feel is negative. As far as this is concerned, I would like to say that this is a strategic area of our economy, which we ourselves often say we want to have a leading position — and all parties say so — which implies significant progress, within which we will have more responsibilities and more challenges. These aspects, Prime Minister, were not considered in the formulation of the country's fundamental options for negotiating purposes and were therefore not taken into account by the Government. I ask you, Mr Prime Minister: why has the Government not stated its position in a duly substantiated way? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u16	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u17	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, you seem to be convinced that the negotiations are over.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u18	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u19	The negotiations continue, and they will continue, and we will continue to beat them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u20	But they're going the wrong way!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u21	And we will not continue to beat ourselves just as far as sea funds are concerned. I have mentioned here the cohesion policy, agricultural policy, the need for national envelopes indicative of all centralised management policies, such as science and defence policies, in which the principle of convergence must also be present. Therefore, we have continued to beat ourselves for the national interest, as I assume you and the Members will do. Members when they have an opportunity to speak on this matter. It is in this sense that I tell you that evolution is positive, because, as you know, in cohesion policy, the first perspective was a 30 % cut; the first document presented by the Commission proposes a 15 % cut; at present, a 7% cut is proposed, already below the 10% reduction average in cohesion policy. And yet we continue to say that the result is insufficient and that we have to beat ourselves to continue improving the conditions we have in order to maximize the provision of Community funds. That is what we are going to do about cohesion, agricultural policy, defence policy and science policy, and that is what we will continue to do about sea policy. End point. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u22	Please continue to use the floor, Mr Fernando Negrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, this is not the final point. [[PSD laughter.]] He finished his speech by saying « final point», but it is not a final point because we will continue to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u24	It's a bad starting point!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u25	Mr Prime Minister, there is an agreement between PSD and PS in this area, but this agreement does not imply that there is a switch from PSD to PS from a blank check to PS. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u26	What is a fact is that the cut continues to exist and is substantial, so we must see for you, Prime Minister, a greater determination for that cut to cease to exist. from there this is our position and these alerts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u28	Prime Minister, cohesion policy, which is fundamental and is the main policy of investment, growth and development of the European Union, is also one of the most visible, because it brings Europe closer to citizens and has the solidarity component, which is fundamental to a harmonious growth of the European Union. however, we are witnessing its devaluation due to the policies introduced by the Commission and to this change of criteria in the application of the funds, mainly questioning the principle of solidarity, which is fundamental to balance in Europe and sustainable balance in the development of Europe. I ask you, Prime Minister: is it possible to build the Europe of the future by ruining what Europe has already proved to be good in the past? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u29	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u30	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I know that he was bringing the question already asked, but I am going to repeat a passage that I read recently in my speech and that I should not have heard. I would then like to repeat this passage: « (...) but if we want to respond well to the new challenges we must start by not sacrificing what we have already done well, such as cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. Moreover, because these policies(...) also help to meet the challenges of the future. For example, the common agricultural policy, in addition to ensuring food security, must make an increased contribution to tackling climate change and cohesion policy must contribute to the prevention of radicalisation in various peripheries or urban centres and must focus more on people as an instrument of the social pillar.' So, not only did I mention this all these months, but I also ended up saying a little while ago in my initial intervention. If the honourable Member has not heard, I apologize, and that is why I repeat it. But there is no doubt that, obviously, the defence of cohesion policy and agricultural policy, in its entirety, is an essential point not only of the agreement we have signed but also of the policy of this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u31	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u32	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I was sorry to have read, because I have heard your speech, indeed, as I always hear, with the greatest attention. [[PS protests.]] What happens is that once again Mr Prime Minister had nothing to answer me, he did not want to answer and then his answer was the repetition of what he read in the initial intervention. It was nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u33	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u34	Mr Prime Minister, the budget presented makes cohesion policy the poor parent of European policies. This is a fact! And I do not see the Government dispute this fact, which is very bad for Portugal and the Portuguese. The European Commission, although they have already asked insistently, has not yet explained, nor does it seem to want to explain why it cut the cohesion fund by 45 %, Prime Minister. Repeat: 45%! It's a very significant number! the Portuguese Government does not hear a word of protest and does not see a firm position. So I ask you one more question, about the ones you have already brought, of course, because I do the housework: will the Prime Minister ever cease to have the kind and subordinate speech he has had to demand, firmly and fairly, the distribution of the funds? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u35	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u36	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, you have not been paying attention, but since the first minute that the Government, as all the political forces, has said that the Commission's proposal, even the new proposal which already represents great progress on the initial version, is insufficient. I have already said that, I have entered this subject for debate today, here in this Parliament, I have reaffirmed it in my speech and I will reaffirm it in the Council. The cut of 45 % to Portugal does not apply; cohesion policy under the Structural Funds has an average reduction of 10 %. There are countries, like several countries in eastern Europe, which have cuts of 24 % and 25 %. Portugal currently has a cut of 7 %. We are not satisfied with this constant price reduction over the past and will continue to beat us for its improvement. I don't understand what your question is, because we have said and repeated the same thing several times and we will always keep saying and repeating the same thing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u37	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, my doubt is that there have been cuts. I will not argue with you if you have been cut by 45 % or any other percentage, but that there have been cuts, there have been cuts. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] I will insist, Mr. Prime Minister, that the cut that happened is of the greatest severity. The cut is equivalent to a genuine amputation of cohesion that must exist among countries, especially with regard to the balance between the poorest and richest countries. I would like to give you the example of the ERDF, which is the pillar of regional development, where the transition regions, which were between 75 % and 90 % of the average, see this extended interval up to 100 %. Mr. Prime Minister, 100 %! In other words, the most cohesive are getting more money, with obvious damage to those who are less cohesive and are beyond the European average. Mr. Prime Minister, on your part, not a word about this. Do you want to go through the raindrops? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u39	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u40	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão is clearly wrong in the interlocutor because I am not the Commission and I did not present the proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: I am the one negotiating with the Commission and not accepting the Commission proposal. On cohesion policy I have had occasion either in my speech in the European Parliament or in my speech in the Committee of the Regions, either in the public positions which I and the whole Government have assumed, to say whenever Brexit and the new policies cannot have as an adjustment mechanism neither the cohesion policy nor the common agricultural policy. So there is one point on which it is not worth wanting to build a difference that does not exist. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. This is what we need to converge and maintain a position of national unity in defending our country's interests. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u41	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, you are the intermediary of all of us in the negotiations with Brussels. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] I know of your good intentions, of course, that they are no bigger than mine, obviously,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u44	... but let me tell you one thing: Mr. Prime Minister is on the first line, in terms of responsibility, in the debate with Brussels and the Commission on these matters and we need to feel that you are indeed committed and determined to the protection of Portugal's interests, which has not happened, Mr. Prime Minister. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u45	We have no sense of that, Prime Minister, and we want to feel it! Mr. Prime Minister, three years ago, the PSD made a warning warning to the government about the need to reactivate a group,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ... which was the group of cohesion countries in order to avoid cuts, and hard cuts, as it is now. You, instead of betting on this group, bet on an agreement with the French President, that I respect and designate as Mr Macron. Finally, what happened, Prime Minister? Spain, France and Italy, among others, saw their money increase...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u46	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u47	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, Spain, France and Italy, among others, saw their funds increase and Portugal saw their funds decrease by 7%, i.e. EUR 1, 6 billion. Mr Prime Minister, do you think your strategy was indeed the right strategy? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u48	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u49	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negro, let us then see what happened to the countries Friends of Cohesion: Hungary, cut 24 % ; Lithuania, cut 24 % ; Estonia, cut 24 % ; Czech Republic, cut 24 %; Poland, cut 23 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u50	Great comparisons! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u51	And it could continue out there, that is, all the countries of the Friends of Cohesion group have incomparably higher cuts than Portugal. [[PSD protests.]] Secondly, if we want to compare cuts, I remember that when the last Community framework was negotiated at the time the then President of the Commission, Durão Barroso, even said that Portugal had a great result because it was even going to receive « a mass pipe ». I do not know if it is remembered until this pungent expression: « mass pipe»! However, if we compare this great negotiation at current prices, which was done seven years ago, with the 6 % reduction this year, do you know what the reduction was? Do you know what that great negotiation was and that'mass pipe'? What you are now comparing, that is, the 6 % reduction, represented a reduction of 10, 58 %. That was the reduction of seven years ago! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u52	Is that comforting you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u53	It was a socialist government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u54	Mr President, we are currently at a different stage from the negotiation. This cut of 10, 58 % was the final result of the negotiation that the government then did, while, with regard to the 6 % reduction, we are still in the negotiation phase and with hope, determination and conviction that we can reduce the impact of the UK's departure and the decrease in its contributions and that today Europe also invests in other expenditure, in addition to the costs of cohesion and the CAP. Mr President, let us therefore focus on what is essential: we shall remain united before the European institutions for the defence of the interests of Portugal. That is what the government will do and I hope that is what the PSD continues to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u55	The Left Block Parliamentary Group is still on the agenda. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u56	Mr President, Prime Minister, the separation of immigrant families in the United States of America and the literal confinement of children cannot leave anyone indifferent. In fact, there is a dangerous attempt to justify what is happening, saying that these are people without roles. None of us need to have documents to be people! We are all sons and daughters, mothers and parents of immigrants. Those families that are being separated are our families, those children are our children, and all silence will be complicit. There can be no silence in the face of the atrocities of Trump America. [[Congratulations from BE and the deputies of PS Elza Pais and Marisabel Moutela.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to suggest to you at the beginning of this debate that Portugal is not complicit in the human rights situation, which would call upon the US ambassador to report to you on the repudiation of Portugal for these barbarous actions of the Trump Administration and also for the decision to abandon the UN Human Rights Council. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, unfortunately, it is not only in Trump America that human rights are worth less and less. The decisions of the Italian Government, for example, cannot go blank either. The persecution of the Roma, the threat to immigrants and the refusal to accept a humanitarian boat are very worrying signs of what is happening in Europe. There is now a European Council and it would not be acceptable for this European Council to continue to turn its eyes on deaths in the Mediterranean or on the neo-fascist attitudes of so many governments from Hungarian to Italian. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u57	We now know that Jean-Claude Juncker has held an informal, preparatory meeting on migration before the European Council, and I would like to know whether or not Portugal has been invited to this meeting and to call on it not to allow human rights to be a detail at the European Council meeting. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u58	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u59	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the separation of minors from their families shocks anyone, is absolutely unacceptable and nothing can justify it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Whether at the border of the United States of America or at any other border. It's unacceptable! Secondly, policies that oppose family unification are particularly wrong for a vision of migration integration. There is nothing more that facilitates the integration of those who migrate than they can do with their family, because this is a factor of stability, peace and good social integration. The separation of minors from their families must be condemned and is, in fact, contrary to all international recommendations and the international law on the protection of minors. Portugal may also be proud to have in its capital a foster home dedicated exclusively to unaccompanied minors, managed by the Portuguese Council for Refugees. The protection of minors is, of course, a priority within the priority to be given to the protection of refugees. Migration policy is a central issue in Europe today, calling into question the essence of the values on which the European Union is founded, is the greatest risk to the existence of the unity of the European Union, but it is those matters in which the only attitude is to be radically true to the founding principles of the European Union and, first of all, to the one in which it is based, which is the fundamental principle of the dignity of the human person. For this reason, Portugal has always been at the forefront of migration policy, defending an integrated vision of cooperation, particularly with Africa, with a view to developing, peace, freedom and democracy, in order to combat, in its origin, the causes of migration and refugees, having a solid management of the common external border, and the largest segment of this common external border is, precisely, under Portuguese jurisdiction, and having a responsible and supportive integration of immigrants in our cities. This has been an ongoing policy of the Portuguese State and I hope it will continue to be. It is because of this policy that we have beaten and we will continue to beat in Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u60	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u61	Mr President, Prime Minister, the rejection of the xenophobic and violent policies of the United States of America and Trump Administration must be stated here, but it must also be stated to the U.S. Administration and, therefore, I insist again: it is important to call the ambassador. in the same way, it is important for Portugal to take a position in the European Council, because we understand that a Europe which has austerity as a unique hypothesis and which dispenses democracy and human rights is not a threat at this time, is already the tragedy that we are living in. But, Prime Minister, I would like to bring you other national issues, which, at the time of the 15-year debate, we would like to address. Mr. Prime Minister, in Vila Franca de Xira, Vila Pouca de Aguiar, Alenquer, Viana do Castelo, Viseu, Vila Real, Loures, Gaia, Lisboa, Estarreja, Odemira, Castelo Branco, Barcelos, Santa Maria da Feira, Lamego, Aveiro, Oliveira do Hospital, Benavente and Sixtal the populations and the autarcas were caught by surprise with the closure of agencies of the General Deposit Box, sometimes more than one per fregueia, sometimes the only one of the fregueia and sometimes also the intention to withdraw the only Multibank. What is at stake is leaving whole populations, especially the most isolated, the poorest and elderly without access to banking services. This was done on the backs of the populations, on the backs of the autarchs and on the backs of Parliament. Several times we have asked for the list of agencies to close, and their criteria, to the Box and to the Government, and this list has never been delivered. The government recapitalized the General Deposit Box, and well. It was his duty as shareholder after the irresponsibility of the PSD government / CDS. It is true that the plan of the former Government has already provided for the closure of counters, but it is also the duty of this government, as the representative of the State shareholder, to defend the public interest and direct the action of the State bank to that public interest, and so far we have not heard a single word from the Government about these closures. So my question is the following: what will the government do to ensure the interests of the populations and the maintenance of the General Deposit Box counters? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u62	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u63	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, as you know, the option of capitalising the General Deposit Box and maintaining 100 % public was essential for the security of Portuguese savings, for the stabilization of our financial system and for the creation of better financing conditions for the Portuguese economy. In order for such capitalisation to be possible, an authorisation was required by the European Commission and the Directorate-General for Competition to be carried out in accordance with market conditions. This was a matter which was widely debated in Parliament and we all know the remedies imposed by the Directorate-General for Competition to allow this capitalisation by the State. One of these measures was effectively a review of the network of counters that is contained in the Strategic Plan of the General Deposit Box. If, in particular, it is this or that balcony to be closed, the government does not intervene, nor will it intervene, because we have the understanding, as I have already repeatedly stated, of respecting the autonomy of the management of state companies, limiting our intervention to what is their strategic intervention. It is an option that is contained in the agreement with the European Commission and the Strategic Plan that we have approved, but whose implementation we entrust to the administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u64	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u65	Mr President, Prime Minister, we cannot have the Box to be managed in the order of the European Commission, without criteria on our country. It is up to the government to defend the public interest. Why did we recapitalize the Box? To defend the public interest! And above all these closures without criteria and on the backs of the populations are absolutely incomprehensible. The Salgadas Stone counter, for example, makes a profit. It's on the inside, it's an old population! Why are you going to close? The branch in France, which serves our emigrant community, which contributed to positive results of the General Deposit Box will close why? How can we have an internal policy if we abdicate even the intervention of the State as a shareholder of its public bank? We have recapitalized the Box, yes, and now we have to demand that it serve the public interest, no less than that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u67	Mr. Prime Minister, there is another topic on which I would like to question and which has to do with the changes to urban rental and the protection of the right to housing. We have made changes, which were important, to the laws of Assumption Christians, but, in fact, they do not arrive, they are still very limited. in this sense, I wanted to talk to you about the income supported. We'll change the formula for calculating supported income to protect families. But whoever has been in debt of the time when the value of income has tripled—by a formula that we consider unfair and so we have changed it—is now being forced to pay fines and interest on death that sometimes double the value in debt. We know, we have met with the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabitação Urbana), which are making payment plans not to clear these families. But, in fact, if we recognize that they were asked for a value that they could not afford and we did the recalculation of incomes, then, now, we have to end these fines and interest in residence, because it is the only way these families can regulate their situation. It makes no sense that by a mistake of Assumption Christians the families of the neighborhoods are now being cleared. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, very briefly, on the general urban lease regime, as you know, we are discussing new solutions in Parliament and we have approved a suspension of the evictions, but the Socialist Party has not left it comprehensive, limiting it to those who were over 65 years old and have been at home for more than 15 years. It happens that there are investment funds to buy whole buildings and blocks...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u68	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u69	Of course, Mr. President. As I was saying, there are investment funds that are buying whole blocks and that, because they do not want to keep the future protections of tenants that the law can create, they are putting them away unduly, with enormous abuse. And we're not talking about tenants who don't pay their rents or who don't take their responsibilities. No, they're tenants who do everything and still are being cleared,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u71	... all this with the excuse of works and others that the law of Christ allows, as we already recognize and that we are trying to change. We are receiving so many requests from people who, because they are 64 years old, not 65 years old, or because they've been home for 14 years and there are 15 people being cleared.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u72	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u73	I will finish, Mr. President. Do the government what Parliament has not done to the end: suspend the evictions until the law is changed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u74	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u75	The government has the possibility of stopping this social disaster now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u76	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u77	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, as you know, Parliament now has a proposal for a basic housing law. I heard yesterday or saw today, in the newspaper, that the PCP also announced the presentation of a new house-based law...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u78	It was yesterday!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u79	Last night! The Government has already submitted a set of proposals for both amendments to the lease law and the creation of a set of incentives for the Accessible Income Programme. We have launched a set of measures that have to do with a new generation of housing policies and, therefore, we have restored housing to the centre of public policy priorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u80	And yet there are people to be cleared!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u81	This had not happened, Mrs Deputies, since the 1990s and we have rejected it now because housing is today a central issue and it is for various segments of society. It is no longer only for the deprived families who live in the municipal neighborhoods or IHRU neighborhoods and who pay the supported income. Today, it is a central problem for the middle class and, in particular, for young generations and we need to create conditions for effectively accessible housing. The idea that by liberalizing the lease market the magical hand of the market would make housing accessible confirmed, as this liberal vision has always shown, that it is an absolute failure. Therefore, we must not return to the old freezing policies, nor to the old policies that led families to indebtedness through the acquisition of their own home, we must promote an affordable lease so that the generality of middle class families can continue to live. It is not prohibiting tourism, but increasing the offer that we have managed to regulate more intelligently what is happening today in relation to the housing market. As for the correction situation, I'm going to see what's going on in IHRU. I believe that the guidance given to IHRU was not to proceed with evictions, but rather to renegotiating the amounts owed to families in order to ensure that there are conditions for them not to lose their housing. Housing must continue to be increasingly a priority policy. We respect what Parliament intends to do in the matter of suspension of evictions. I leave a final note on the General Deposit Box: we did not intervene in day-to-day management, but we intervened in strategic management and, from this point of view, when we had to be called upon to approve the Strategic Plan we defined which areas, in particular, of the international presence of the Box that we understood that we could not dispense.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u82	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u83	I conclude, Mr President, by saying only that one of the areas that has been defined as priority to maintaining Box was its presence, precisely, in France. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u84	It is the time of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP. You have the floor to Mrs Cristian Assumption to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u85	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, today he brought us the issue of Community funds, and still well. The CDS is proud to have been the only party in this House to raise the debate on this subject through a legislative agenda and a draft resolution on the subject. [[PS protests.]] What is more, I have him here and I can supply him to the most forgotten. In the last 15 years, I had asked him questions on this subject and last Saturday I had the opportunity to put questions directly to the Agriculture Commissioner, Phil Hogan, on our second pillar and on the importance that I believe we all do not have cuts in this second pillar of the CAP (common agricultural policy ). from the perspective of Phil Hogan, there are three possible scenarios: increasing the CAP's funds by increasing the contributions of the Member States, moving money from the first to the second pillar or increasing the national budget's funds to compensate for the Community's cut—which Mr Prime Minister has just said he would not be available. So my question is this: what will you do at the European Council? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u86	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have said from the outset, the best way to avoid reductions in cohesion policy and agricultural policy, in a scenario where there is less one contributor and more expenditure, is for all States to contribute more. Therefore, Portugal's first position is that. Commissioner Phil Hogan must have told you, when he was in Santarém at the National Agriculture Fair, in a debate in which I too was able to participate, that the Portuguese Government expressed all its support for the Commission so that it could obtain the funds necessary to be able to allocate to the CAP. That is because we cannot put ourselves in the comfortable position in which the Member States stand, if they are not available to put more money in the Community budget and then ask the Commission to give them more money, as if the Commission produced it, instead of the transfers from the States. In order to be consistent, if we want to have more cohesion policy and more agricultural policy, we must be available to have more contributions to the Community budget. We're available and that's what we said we were going to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u88	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u89	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am perfectly in agreement with the most contribution. In addition, in this draft resolution, the CDS proposed to increase the contribution to 1,3 % of Community GDP (gross domestic product). I regret that the Portuguese Government has only defended an increase of 1, 2 % because the Commission only proposes 1, 1 %. If there had been more countries, perhaps they would have been fighting for a higher increase, perhaps this debate over the CAP was more well referred today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u91	You will certainly know that on our side there will be consistency in all areas, particularly in order to inject more money into Portuguese agriculture, which is not your line, as, moreover, you soon saw in the change of government when you withdrew a reprogramming in Brussels which injected more EUR 240 million into Portuguese agriculture. It's always worth remembering. But, Prime Minister, let me also remind you that you have managed, in response to the PSD, to speak about the cases of the cuts in cohesion, but you have not talked about the cases of the countries in the south, of such a group in the south that Mr Prime Minister is so keen, and that they have increased the funds, already in these first perspectives. I will give you only two or three examples: Spain increases cohesion, Italy increases cohesion; Greece increases cohesion. There are two more countries that are not from the south, but that are from cohesion, Bulgaria and Romania, which also increase. So perhaps we should look there and ask you what you are going to do, i.e. whether you are going to look at these, particularly for Spain, and how you will explain in Brussels that Spain needs more cohesion policy than Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u92	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u93	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, first of all, we want more money for agriculture. What we have said is that the solution proposed by the Commission even results in more than 289 million euros for agriculture. At what cost? At the cost of a reduction in European transfers to Portugal by EUR 450, EUR 500 million and an increase in State budget expenditure by EUR 790 million. What we have said is that it is not fair to renationalise agricultural policy, especially for a country which, like us, has been making an effort to have greater budgetary consolidation. I would like to draw attention to the letter that the Minister for Agriculture has mobilized and which has already signed 19 countries to strengthen the common agricultural policy and, in particular, the second pillar, because this pillar is particularly critical to us. There it has an identical cut of 15 % for all, and for some the second pillar it represents 8 % of the transfers and for us it represents 50 %. Therefore, 15%, which seems the same, is quite different in its consequences and therefore we cannot accept it. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Member when he does these comparative exercises, which we are comparing different things. One thing is to compare the evolution of one frame to another, another thing is to compare it in absolute values. Despite this reduction in cohesion policy, we remain the fifth country with the highest per capita income of the European Union. Compared to the countries you mentioned, our per capita revenue is €292, which compares to €105 in Spain. The fundamental reason why Spain has this increase and we do not have it is because our unemployment, fortunately, has dropped a lot and, unfortunately, that of Spain has risen a lot and also because Andalusia which had ceased to be a cohesion region has returned to be it. And only Andalusia has 8 million inhabitants, almost as many as Portugal, which has an impact on the absolutely brutal redistribution in favour of Spain and brutal in favour of Portugal. Now the truth is that we cannot comply with this Commission proposal, and we must continue to struggle to continue to reduce the negative impact that new expenditure and less revenue would have on transfers to Portugal. It is in this common effort that we must continue to make efforts, and I am also counting on the CDS-PP to achieve this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u94	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u95	Mr President, Prime Minister, of course the CDS knows very well what the differences in the first pillar are. In fact, I had the opportunity to say this to the Commissioner : a 15 % cut in the second pillar is not the same in Portugal or in general the countries of the European Union. We know very well what we are talking about and we know very well how, in recent negotiations, we have improved our relative position on the first and second pillars and we have still had an additional envelope of EUR 500 million, without co-financing. I believe that this is the challenge that is put to the Portuguese State, without needing, contrary to what the PSD and PS defend in Brussels more taxes at European level. We therefore advocate all this, perhaps with more transfers from the State budget—yes, sir! — for the Community budget, but not with more European taxes. in this we clearly distinguish ourselves from your position, but not from the rest, which is to beat us for more money to Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u97	But, Prime Minister, let me move on to another subject, which is undisturbed — today, once again, and unfortunately, undisturbed. The Report of the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems came out,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u98	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u99	... which is crystalline in this regard, saying that 2017 was the worst year of primary health care reform in relation to family health units ( USF ). The report tells us that primary health care reveals, and I quote, « structural deficiencies », with doubting the degree of priority in this area for the government. How do you comment on these same facts, which are not underlined by the CDS but by an independent entity? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u100	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u101	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, the Minister of Health has already had an opportunity to comment on these facts. Obviously the structural problems are not solved in two years, Mrs. Therefore, these are structural and non-conjunctural problems. What we have been doing is what is essential, after 10 years of crisis and active de-investment in health policy. And this has meaning to increase investment and increase human resources. And that is what we will continue to do for, hospital hospital, family health unit the family health unit, specialty the specialty, continue to improve our National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u102	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u103	Mr President, Prime Minister, the problem is not just primary health care, as we have already seen. But the CDS signalled it in this House and the Observatory reiterates exactly that, i.e., that in 2017 they had the worst year ever. So the SNS is not progressing, it's returning, it's slowing down on this matter. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] But that is not all: it is hospital care; it is the continued care, which had a 10% retreat in its home support, and will be, on 1 July, the reduction of the normal working time of health professionals to 35 hours a week. Two years ago, we indicated the irresponsibility that was, without being properly prepared, a passage from 40 hours to 35 hours a week in health. This would necessarily result in a reduction in the quality of service or in the need for more contracts. Mr. Prime Minister, what did we have? A brutal reduction in the quality of services—and this report again denounced—with the lack of doctors and the lack of qualified nurses. We needed more and more overtime hours, we accumulated debts in this area and health professionals accumulate demotivation and exhaustion. There is the garrote of the Ministry of Finance, there are services to be closed due to lack of professionals, there are clinical directions to resign. My question is this: how does it guarantee that, on this 1 July, things will be different? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u104	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u105	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas, I reply as follows : in 2017, there were more than 700 million euros of transfers from the State budget to the National Health Service and more than 1000 million euros of capital reinforcement of corporate hospitals in order to be able to settle their debts. And I say, above all, with two facts: today, we have more 8000 professionals than we had before, we have more 302 000 registered hospital consultations than we had, we have more 19 000 surgeries than we had. That is, we have more resources and we have more production than we had. Isn't that enough? Yeah, no! That is why we will continue to recover, we will continue to invest, we will continue to work to recover the 10 years that, from the crisis to the de-investment, we have accumulated in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u106	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u107	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you will continue to bring here the data of the so-called 'production' and I will continue to bring here the reality that is denounced every day by professionals, by users, by orders. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u108	Perhaps one day, Mr. Prime Minister can admit that, after all, all this is nothing but wrong choices from his government, because when he spends money on one side, he does not have it to spend on the other, and he continues to be unable to cover such famous hours, which have been reduced and obviously need more and more reinforcements in all areas. But let me address another issue that has to do with the following: I have sent 31 sets of written questions to your Government on the subject of fires, the past and the future. I just want to make you two here. The first is this: when can you ensure that all dwellings have the communications restored? It is that there are still no communications today that we are ashamed of. The second is the following: what is done of the reforestation pilot projects? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u109	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u110	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, as regards regional forest planning programmes, are in the process of conclusion of public debate and is expected to be approved during the next month. With regard to health, Mrs Deputies, we have to understand the following: we cannot discuss any problem based on perceptions. Mrs. Deputy, of course, must be reminded of that outbreak of self-growth in the highways when Dr. Correia de Campos was a minister, which suddenly disappeared when he stopped being a minister. Now, we have to evaluate the teaching system, the health system or any other system not by our perception, not by our experience, not by a case that, here or there, runs badly, because it runs badly in many places, but by what are the objective data. And the objective data, whether the honourable Member likes or not, is that there were more than 300 000 consultations and there were more than 19,000 surgeries. This is the objective data. It's not a perception, it's reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u111	Nothing else!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u112	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u113	Mr President, Prime Minister, are there or are there any pilot reforestation projects? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u114	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u115	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, I have already given the answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u116	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u117	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am overwhelmed by your reply because I must conclude that you do not know what you are saying in this House. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] You don't know when you say there's a pilot project for the country's reforestation, when you explain that the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior has pilot projects in other domains, and every time I ask you here about the pilot projects you just don't know.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u118	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u119	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm going to enjoy the same tolerance given to a party I've intervened before. Let me finish, Prime Minister, with two more questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u120	It may end, but it has to be fast.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u121	I'll finish. One of them has to do with the following: tomorrow, in this House, we will have another opportunity for Mr Prime Minister to honour his word on fuel neutrality. Will you or will you not revoke the tax receipt that the taxpayers are currently target? Finally, I heard him talk about housing. I'd like to hear your comment on the following: ends today the auction of a social security property, a T2, in Lisbon, with the income-base value of 1150 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u122	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u123	Is this an affordable income? Is this housing for everyone? What do you have to say? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u124	In reply, you have the floor for one second, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u125	Mr. President, Mrs. Member, on housing, it is better not to talk,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because I remember what, as President of the City Council of Lisbon, I told your office and the contempt with which you received us, to me and Mrs. Helena Roseta, ignoring everything we told you that was going to happen about housing and that it resulted in the social disaster that Mrs. Deputies created in this country in relation to housing. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u126	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u127	Then I regret that Mrs. Deputy confuses the pilot project of the register with the pilot project of reforestation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u128	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u129	Well, Mr. President, I am not allowed to continue. But we will not miss the opportunity, within 15 days, to continue our discussion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u130	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u131	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u132	To defend honor. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u133	To defend the honor of the bench?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u134	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u135	And, by the way, can you explain the reason for requesting the right to defend the honor of the bench?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u136	The reason for this is the expression « contempt» and « social calamity», Mr President. I cannot accept that Mr. Prime Minister says this in these terms without defending the honor of this bench. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u137	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u138	As you know, Mr President, I have no custom of resorting to this regiment figure, but I believe that Mr. Prime Minister has exceeded himself when he referred to this bench and myself, now under the condition of the CDS leader, as having treated him with contempt and ignoring a social calamity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u139	But it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u140	Mr. Prime Minister, social calamity did not exist because we protected what we had to protect. [[PS and BE protests.]] And I would like to say something to you, Mr. Prime Minister: I do not have two sides, I do not say something to you, when you are Prime Minister, President of the City Council of Lisbon or Mr. Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, and something else to others. [[PS protests.]] I always say the same thing. Mr. Prime Minister, when he was President of the City Council of Lisbon, I know very well what he was saying to me, what he was saying on the street to win votes and what he said to private investors who wanted to attract to the city. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u141	In order to explain, if you understand that, you have the floor of Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u142	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say to the CDS-PP bench that I have nothing to say about the CDS-PP bench, which is why I have the greatest esteem and consideration. I didn't say anything to Mrs. Christian Assumption either. I mean, yes, to the ex-Minister Assumption Cristas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the ex-Minister Assumption Cristas, whether you like it or not, was not only the Minister of Farmers, it was not only the Minister of Farming, it was the Minister who made this lease law that created a social crisis in Portugal. And, more, Mrs. Member, created it consciously,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u143	I knew what I was doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u144	...because you've been warned by everyone. It was warned by me, it was warned by Mrs Helena Roseta, it was notified throughout the country that purely savage liberalisation of the lease market would generate a social disaster in our country—and it only didn't generate greater because it changed the government and changed the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u145	We moved on to the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u146	Mr President, Prime Minister, with regard to the Plurianual Financial Framework and the National Investment Plan — Portugal 2030, I wanted to make two notes and one question. The first to stress that what has brought us here does not dispel our concerns about the opinion, which has already been expressed, that we are faced with another financial framework for divergence, now even worse than the planned cut in cohesion funds and the CAP. The second note is to state that the National Investment Plan is condemned to clearly fall short of the country's investment needs, determined that it is almost exclusively from Community funds because the constraints imposed by the European Union so demand. in this framework, will the government accept the cuts that are being attempted, to the detriment of countries such as Portugal? Or will it justify them with the promise, which is already outlined, a future strengthening of cohesion and investment? This future is always postponed, for example, to the interior, to agriculture, to come to those who have been victims of the fires and the root causes of the tragedy. Yes, Prime Minister, it was very important that we all went to Pedragon! But solidarity is not enough, because what those people need is concrete measures to solve their problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u147	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u148	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, first of all on the Community funds, I believe that my position was very clear: Portugal does not accept the proposal as it is currently. We recognize that there has been an improvement, which is progress, but it is still not acceptable and we will continue to work to improve both cohesion policy and, in particular, agricultural policy, and other policies, such as, for example, the impacts on the outermost regions, which also have a particularly negative and must be corrected — and I refer to the Azores and Madeira. Secondly, as regards the public debate which yesterday began on the National Investment Programme ( NIP 2030 ), we have the active participation of all political actors, local authorities and economic actors. And we hope that it can be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic with its funding framework, which we will have to do by the end of December so that precisely if we can influence the final design of the next multiannual financial framework. On the inside, I agree: it is not enough words, action is needed, and hence the set of measures we have been taking within the framework of the national territorial cohesion plan. on the next 14 July, we will approve, in Pampilhosa da Serra, together with the national planning plan of the territory, the new National Program of Territorial Cohesion, updated, and we have come to implement a set of measures in the pilot project, in the area of the nine municipalities affected by the fires of Pedrogão, which we consider absolutely essential for the revitalization of the interior. In fact, there is no fatality in which this happens, until last week we were able to see in all newspapers, with great emphasis, the success of the capital placement of an old startup—which today already has a large company, the Outsystems—which has been developing much of its activity, especially its activity of greater value added and greater knowledge, in Proença-a-Nova, demonstrating that it is also possible to develop these capabilities in the interior. As has been proved in Ponte de Sor, as has also proved in Fundão, as has also proved in Évora, as has been proved in many other interior councils which, indeed, it is possible to introduce value added materials there. It is in this sense that we must continue to work in a cross-cutting policy towards all government action, not solely focused on this or that area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u149	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u150	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to convey to you with all the frankness that what we have brought from there — of our visit, of our travel, of our contacts — was not quite that picture which has just been exposed. And now, don't forget those who were victims of the October fires, who are still waiting for answers. In any case, Mr. Prime Minister, it is with these investment limitations that we will respond to the many problems that the country faces, whether inside, or, for example, in health, knowing that there are many problems with which the SNS (National Health Service) is confronted and that they drag on in time without the government taking the necessary steps to overcome them. It is true that we continue to have one of the best public health services in the world, and so has been the target of a campaign aimed at discrediting them, with which the authors intend to convince the Portuguese that it is necessary to go further in the transfer of care to private groups. More than €3500 million through PPPs (public-private partnerships), the conventional regime and service contracts transferred to private groups are no longer sufficient. For private groups whose logic of functioning is based on the disease, even in health, the greater the profit, the better! There has been money to transfer to the private, but there has been no money, nor is there, for the necessary hiring of thousands of nurses. More than 1000 doctors have not had access to specialized training since 2015, when there are no specialists in all hospitals, primary care, radiology services that end at night because of lack of health technicians. Hundreds of thousands of Portuguese without a doctor and family nurse require emergency measures from the government, such as those proposed by the PCP, measures that do not sympathize with an obsessively policy dependent on the deficit in public accounts. The CFP presented a draft resolution on the need to recruit missing professionals. Mr Prime Minister, the question I put to you is this: when is this recruitment? It was said here that you made an effort, but you must recognize that it is insufficient and that the problem can worsen in the approaching bathing season. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u151	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know the numbers of the effort that has been made with regard to reconstruction and that are as follows: 1012 houses between completed and under-reconstruction are currently in place; companies have already been supported, worth EUR 81 million, to re-establish their productive activity; there has been support for the maintenance of 1850 jobs, only in these municipalities; training actions covering more than 18 000 people have been carried out; €700 000 has been invested in livestock feeding which has been left without pasture; and another set of support which has been granted. We must have the notion of the scale of the tragedy and understand that, in the face of the dimension of the tragedy, the effort that has been made must be continued and that, as is natural, in relation to the fires of October, it has not yet produced the same results as the effort on the fires of June for a matter of time. About human resources in health, as I recently had the opportunity to say, we have 8000 more professionals in the National Health Service than we had before, we have 3600 more doctors, we have 3000 more nurses. And this is comparing with the year 2015, but for those who say the problem is 35 hours, it is appropriate to say that if we compare with the year 2011, where there was still the 35 hours regime, we have more 3000 doctors and more 1700 nurses than we had so far. It will tell me that, nevertheless, they were insufficient and that, therefore, they are still insufficient. I'm not arguing! What I'm saying is that the way we've been going is a sustained, continued path of strengthening human resources, in doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians and other professionals of the National Health Service. It is an effort that will continue and that it will also have additional measures at this time of summer, because of course we are aware that either by the movement of the populations, or by the vacation period of the professionals, or by the diseases of the age, some of the services have to be strengthened, and we will take the necessary measures to make this happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u153	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u154	Mr President, Prime Minister, I insist, and it is not with a critical destructive sense, is a warning to you: given the level of shortcomings that currently exist in the National Health Service, or are taken or we have a very difficult situation here, a problem that can turn into a crisis of unpredictable consequences. This is the meaning of the alert I make to you, and I certainly hear-CL. Mr. Prime Minister, as it was foreseeable, his Government's stubbornness in not realizing what the State Budget Act of 2018 says and the commitment it has made to teachers in terms of counting the time of service, the school year will end up in an unstable framework. It is not worth insisting on inflationed costs, on pseudo-occupations with privileges that do not exist, only in order to divide the employees of the Public Administration. It is not worth insisting that a party does not want to negotiate, when it is the teachers who are already abdicating some of their rights, and it is not worth saying that the country has no money to fulfil its commitments to its workers — the teachers, the security forces and other employees of the Public Administration — when the government continues to hand over millions and millions of euros to the bank. What I ask you is until, and with what consequences, you intend to prolong this situation. Or will you avenge the thesis that the cuts were not extraordinary, but definitive, how did the PSD/CDS government, IMF and the European Union want? In fact, the social agreement has much of this concept in relation to the insistence on the expiry of collective labour contracts, in relation to the fight against precariousness, falsely resolved with the payment of a rate, in the extension of the experimental period, in the deregulation of hours with the maintenance of a bank of hours, but also in the cut-off of holidays, in the value of overtime, in the compensation for dismissal, and out there. If there is a significant factor in this phase of national political life, it was the recovery, the replacement of incomes and rights that some wanted to perpetuate. This is the challenge that we are facing: are we still on the path of reinstatement of income and rights or are we going back, given what is not acquired, taking into account the need to restore the income and rights that are due to Portuguese workers? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u155	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u156	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, first of all, let us not compare what is unrivalled. The intervention in relation to the financial system has, by nature, a loan and, on the other hand, had the loss of equity capital by its shareholders. What is guaranteed is the protection and safety of depositors, that is, the safety of all of us. Secondly, what we signed with the teachers was the declaration of commitment on 18 November, which is unequivocal about what was agreed. The agreement was to open negotiations in order to mitigate the impact of the freezing while discussing the time to be considered, the way of recovery and the timetable for recovery. It was with this good faith and with this object that we sat at the table and put forward a proposal. In view of this proposal, we have received no counter proposal and that is why the negotiations are at the point where they are. With regard to the question on whether we are going to continue on the path of reintroduction of income and rights, the answer is: yes, we will continue the path of reintroduction of income and rights. However, in order for this path to continue in a sustainable way, it is absolutely essential that we never take a greater step than the leg and never have to be confronted with the need for us to take a step back and then wait many years in order to be able to take two steps forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u157	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u158	Now that we have been able to take a step forward after the many steps that have been taken back, the way we are going to do is to continue to take steps forward, safely, with determination, firmly, with confidence, but in order not to run the risk of having to step back again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u159	You really have to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u160	It is in that management and in that balance that we will continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u161	It's the turn of The Greens. To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u162	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, when you have just said that further steps must be taken, with determination and confidence, allow me to ask you to add 'justice'. This is because Mr. Prime Minister is buying a war with teachers and other professions that depend on the time of service for career valorization and I think that this is not really worth it, because it is of the greatest justice that all the time of service is accounted for! When Mr Prime Minister signed this note, which he has just referred to with the unions, which talks about mitigating the impact of thawing, it was to agree in the form of phase-up and progressiveity for that time of service to be counted and that is what the government is refusing to do. So justice is something that needs to be imposed on this process. Mr Prime Minister, a social agreement has been signed between the Government, employers and UGT, which provides for such serious measures as the extension of the experimental period from 90 to 180 days, i.e. making workers absolutely disposable, because at the end of six months they can be put on the street at no cost to the employer. Do I want to know who the Prime Minister is counting on in the Assembly of the Republic to approve such a measure? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u163	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u164	Mr President, Madam Member, the answer is simple: I count on all those who want to fight precariousness,... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias and Jorge Machado.]] ... because the proposed law which the Government has submitted removes two grounds from the use of the term contract: the one to be young to seek first employment and the one to be long-term unemployed. The proposed law which the Government has submitted reduces the time when it is possible to be in precarious condition, insofar as it reduces from three to two or six to four years the duration of the contracts to be completed, depending on whether the term is correct or the term uncertain. The proposed law submitted by the Government does not allow all renewals to exceed the duration of the first contract and therefore, if the first contract is six months, the total duration of the contract may not exceed one year. More: the stages began to count as an experimental period, and the existence of an experimental period is not a dangerous measure, it is a measure that encourages the contract without end, the final contract, and that combats precariousness, because the experimental period exists under a contract without end, it is not an alternative to the contract with end, and therefore promotes the contract without end. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from Members, PCP, Jorge Machado and from Os Verdes, José Luís Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u165	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia continues to use the word. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u166	Mr President, Prime Minister, I see that you have agreed to reflect on justice for teachers, and I think it is good that you think and reflect so as to arrive at the right solution. On the subject of precariousness, I do not think that measures of this kind are going in this direction, Mr Prime Minister; they are going in the opposite direction. That is why this example which I referred to with regard to a new employment relationship centered on a six-month precarious contract, if you come to the Assembly of the Republic — yes, Mr Prime Minister, that is what it is, in practice; we will call you what we want, but that is what it is, in practice — will not count on the favourable vote of the Greens. It is difficult for me to believe that Mr. Prime Minister and the PS Government are counting on the PSD to approve such things, because all this goes in the logic of changes to labour legislation that the PSD and the CDS had brought back in Portugal. Mr. Prime Minister, it costs me that at the end of the legislature the government is making so many agreements with the PSD. This should make the country reflect, but it should also make the Government reflect on the guidelines it is pursuing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u168	We, The Greens, continue, in the Assembly of the Republic, with determination and courage, to wish to agree with the Government everything that comes in the direction of greater justice in the restoration of rights and the promotion of the quality of life of the Portuguese, these and future generations. But very quickly I would still like to mention anything about the Community funds and also about the National Investment Programme 2030 ( PNI 2030 ). Mr. Prime Minister, when we discussed the issue of fires, everyone raised their voice about the need to combat regional asymmetries and the re-enhancing of the rural world and the interior of the country. But then this is what it costs: when concrete programs arrive, there is a part of this interior that is deeply forgotten. For example, as far as railways are concerned — and Mr. Prime Minister knows how the Greens love railways and ask for investment in railways — investments as important as those in the Douro or Alentejo Valley, in particular in the direct connection between Lisbon and Beja, in the electrification of the White House and then in the Beja-Funcheira connection, this is not foreseen! Mr Prime Minister, in this sense, we believe that this is a loss of opportunity to make investments in the interior in relation to sustainable mobility, which is crucial for the reinvigoration of this interior. And then what do you see? See, for example, agencies of the General Deposit Box to be closed, as is the case of Salgadas Stones, and the Government says it can do nothing; see, for example, CTT stations to be closed, as in Alvito, and the Government says it can do nothing;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u170	...and, in fact, public services are waning in the interior of the country. And then don't « hit the boot with the partridge», it doesn't touch the discourse of the need for the reinvigoration of the interior with the investments that are actually planned there.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u171	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude. It's been a long time since he had it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u172	I hadn't noticed, and thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u173	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u174	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, first of all, we are going to the general political question: this Government is based exclusively on the joint positions it has signed with the Greens, the CFP and the Left Block. As is stated in the Government Programme, we always believe that in structural matters that go beyond the scope of legislation, and specifically with regard to the negotiation of Community funds and the infrastructure plan, consensus should be as broad as possible, hopefully with a two-thirds majority - which necessarily also involves the PSD - in order to ensure stability in the political options that are not one of the legislatures, but which are certainly for several generations. It is no novelty, it is nothing new, it is what is in the Government Programme, nothing has changed with regard to the beginning of this legislature. what it costs me to believe is that the honourable Member will vote against a bill that reduces the grounds for the term contract, which limits the duration of the term contract, which limits the possibility of renewal of the term contracts, which eliminates the individual hourly bank, which eliminates the group hourly bank when it is negotiated individually and promotes collective bargaining, on the basis of a misconception, Mrs Member : it is that there is only an experimental period under a non-term contract. [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] And within the experimental period, the stage begins. However, the existence of the experimental period with a maximum of six months does not encourage instability, promotes the confidence of the parties in order to be able to conclude, at the beginning, a contract without end, with the certainty that if the person hired does not have the appropriateness for the activity does not remain in place; if it stays, it is soon with a contract without end. The alternative was the use and abuse of term contracts, as was done over the years...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u175	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u176	I shall conclude by two notes, Mr President. Mrs. Deputy said she loves the railroad. One of the works currently under way is the reopening of the railway line Covilhã-Guarda, located inside and closed for more than 10 years. As for the National Investment Programme, this work is neither there nor there is there, because the opening of the public debate that we did yesterday was to receive contributions from which works should be carried out in the next cycle of investments.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u177	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u178	Therefore, Mrs. Member, your suggestions are very welcome. Even to conclude, Mrs Deputy, I leave you with the declaration of commitment that we have signed with the teachers' unions, to verify that it contains three topics to negotiate: the time to be counted, the way of recovery and the timetable.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u179	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u180	Therefore, the time to be counted has never been defined and has always been a matter of negotiation. Moreover, at the conclusion of the negotiations, the President of FenPROF (National Federation of Teachers) said unequivocally that if the Government had accepted the nine years, four months and two days clearly that it was not a statement, it was an agreement, and there is no agreement because the Government did not accept it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u181	Mr. Prime Minister, you have far exceeded the time you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u182	Therefore, we have never accepted, never promised, and we are scrupulously fulfilling what we commit to do, with total good faith. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u183	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u184	Mr President, Prime Minister, we met yesterday the 2018 Spring Report, of the Portuguese Observatory for Health Systems ( OPSS ), and we want to talk again today about how it was born in Portugal. The report tells us what we already knew: the use of cesarean "has reached epidemic proportions" and is not diminishing as desirable. But it tells us more: the rate of cesareans in private hospitals reaches 64%, twice the rate of the verified in public hospitals and four times more than that recommended by the World Health Organization ( WHO ). There is no rule of good practice or combination of risk that can explain this difference, there is no medical reason for this difference, until the pregnant women of private services are supposedly less complicated than those who go to public hospitals, which often receive the most difficult cases. And, Prime Minister, this whole scenario is at a time when it is known that this form of birth is at risk for mothers and worsen the health of babies and future children and adults. For the NAP, humanized delivery should be a priority of the State, being fundamental to consciousizing mothers and parents for the benefits of normal delivery and for the need to reduce the rate of cesarean sections. Having said this, Mr Prime Minister, we have left you three questions: do you believe that this huge difference in cesarean rates between the public and the private has the basis of economic interests? Why are the criteria that apply to public hospitals not extended to the private sector, where two in three babies are born through cesarean sections? And what is missing for the Government to comply with draft resolution No 928 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) the NAP approved a year ago at the Assembly of the Republic to ensure the fulfilment of women's rights in pregnancy and childbirth?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u185	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u186	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I will be frank: I will not answer you. And I am not going to answer you because I do not substitute for the technical opinion of who is a doctor — and I am not — to know what is the appropriate technique for delivery. I won't! I believe, moreover, that it would be a profound mistake to replace a topic which should be subject to a technical debate for the development of good practice by political debate and political opinions. I confess that I am absolutely unable to make any useful contribution to this debate and to be able to answer it. I limit myself to relying on medicine and on the good choice of your professionals and who ensures good practice in the exercise of the activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u187	Mr João Galamba of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u188	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to apologize to you for not asking questions directly on the subject you have brought here, but I cannot help but comment on some statements made by Mrs Assumption Cristos. Mrs Assumption Cristos has had, in debates, the fascinating feature of demanding one thing and its opposite on all subjects, quickly jumping to another subject when she realizes that it was denied by reality. Today, on the subject of health, Mrs Asunción Cristas did something extraordinary: she criticized the Government for the 35-hour policy, i.e. she criticized the Government for respecting the labour rights of all workers who provide health care to Portuguese people — doctors, nurses, superior technicians — and at the same time criticized the Government because these same workers, whose labour rights this Government tries to respect, are exhausted and unable to work so much. I believe that this is the perfect example of the contradictions of Mrs Cristian Assumption, who criticizes the government for one thing and its opposite. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We understand — and now this is also extensive to the PSD: either this government respects the rights of workers who provide health care for Portuguese people in the National Health Service (SNS) or does not respect; what they cannot do is accuse the government of doing both things simultaneously. Therefore, if of nurses and all workers who provide health care in the SNS, be clear and say - clearly here, in Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do not say it is one thing and its opposite, trying to overcome the discontent that exists — and we do not deny it — with proposals that make no sense because they are internally contradictory. In this regard, it was always clear: he told what was coming in his electoral programme, he told what was coming in the Government Programme and has scrupulously and fulfilled all the promises he has made in the elections, which he took when this government was formed, that he has taken on every year of this legislature and that he will continue to assume with rigour and responsibility until the end of this legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u190	It is a bad example that other parties, especially parties that have taken up government functions in the past, do not follow the good example of this government and do not, at least, be able to respect and understand exactly what this government has promised and is fulfilling. It is unfortunate that they do not, but it is true that this government is doing so, and we must point it out. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the subject which has brought us here, Mr Prime Minister, before discussing whether the money comes, if it does not arrive, if the priorities are right, if they are not right, what are the challenges we face, there is one thing that this whole Parliament should accept: the reality that exists. We cannot start a discussion on negotiations, on inadequacies, on what we need to do more without realizing what is the reality and the context in which this negotiation takes place. This negotiation does not occur in a context with all the Member States we have always had, this negotiation does not occur with a maintenance of the financial responsibilities of the European Union ( EU ). This negotiation takes place in an unprecedented context, in a context where for the first time there is a Member State which has ceased to be and in which for the first time there are a number of responsibilities which were not and which have changed. There is no serious discussion about the financial package, the Commission's proposal and the position of the Portuguese Government that does not originate from reality, which is the recognition of the context in which the negotiation is made. Without this, it is impossible to criticize the Portuguese Government, not to praise the Portuguese Government, not to have a serious discussion on this matter. There is fewer than one net contributor in the European Union and there are more responsibilities and therefore one of the two: either there are cuts for all — or cuts for the majority, which have to be distributed but must exist — or there must be new sources of funding. Now it is also for that reason that it is incomprehensible again the position of the CDS and also the PSD, but above all the CDS. The CDS cannot require the Portuguese Government to do something that is not in the capacity of the Portuguese Government, which is to send in the budgets of the other Member States. The Portuguese Government may try to negotiate with Germany, with France, with Italy, may try to negotiate with all, but there is one thing it cannot do, which is to send unilaterally and sovereignly in the budgets of the other Member States. Neither Portugal directs the budgets of others nor the other budgets of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u191	That's debatable!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u192	That is why, responsiblely, the Portuguese Government has put on the table the difficult context in which these negotiations take place. There's less money, there's more responsibilities, and we need to know what to do about this. And the Portuguese Government did so and assumed it clearly: it defends more sources of financing and more own resources for the Union and, yes, it defends more European taxes not because it wants to overcharge this or that country of new taxes, but because it recognizes that there are taxes that can only be collected collectively because if they are not collected collectively they will not be charged individually by any country. So this is one of those subjects in which we can all together do what no country individually can do alone. And that's what the Portuguese Government defended. Do the CDS and PSD defend the same position and new European taxes? If they do not defend themselves, they have to resign themselves to the fact that there is less money and, because there is less money, they have to be redistributed, and there is an inevitable need for cuts. But there is one fact that we cannot ignore in this area either: there was neither Brexit nor any new immigration or security control policies in the previous multiannual financial framework, and yet the two parties that negotiated on behalf of Portugal in the European Union and that all over the whole country the extraordinary fact that they allegedly made more money, had in fact less money than this government had, more badly distributed and without any understanding why. It is not reasonable to criticize a government in a context that you have not faced and yet, in comparative terms, to have had a cut, but it has had a cut much lower than other poorer countries, and also cohesion, and this must be pointed out. On the other hand, we also do not understand how the PSD signs a compromise agreement with the Portuguese Government to strengthen the Portuguese state's negotiating position even before there is a negotiating position of the Portuguese State or, better, concrete negotiations of the Portuguese State. What the PSD and CDS do is criticize not the position of the Portuguese State, not the proposal of the Portuguese State, but a proposal that does not depend on the Portuguese State, but depends on the European Commission. in the same way that the Portuguese Government does not send in the budgets of others, the Portuguese Government may have many qualities, but it does not yet replace the European Commission, it does not yet replace the capacity of the European Commission, and only the European Commission, to present the multiannual financial framework. Therefore, if the PSD and the CDS do not like the European Commission's proposal they criticize, as did the Portuguese Government, and join the Portuguese Government in defending Portugal's interests. What you've done so far is not serious. Therefore, if the PSD even wants to strengthen the negotiating position, then it does not replace the government by the European Commission and criticises it, which is its obligation, thus joining the Portuguese Government. The Portuguese Government, when compared with the previous financial framework, must say so — a proposal that is not satisfactory, but is less bad than it could be. We have countries that are much poorer than Portugal, such as Estonia or other Baltic countries, which have much larger cuts in the cohesion package, and that is a fact that must be marked and must be concluded. Are you satisfied with the Portuguese Government? No, of course, and also does not satisfy the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. We were hoping it would not satisfy the CDS and PSD either but not go wrong in the target and defend the Portuguese Government in its negotiating venues. Mr Prime Minister, I ask you just the following: what are the prospects of the Portuguese Government for the negotiation and the debates it will have in the European Council and now in the European Parliament? I would also like to know whether it really counts with the support of the PSD — the CDS has not signed — or whether it is limited to signing papers and then sorry to be able to criticize the Portuguese Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u193	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u194	Mr President, Mr Galamba, I do not make any intentions regarding others and therefore I always start from the principle that others are at least with the same good faith as I am, i.e. total, and that it is a common interest of all the seats of the Assembly of the Republic that Portugal obtains the best possible result in this European negotiation. It is clear that this European negotiation is part of a very difficult situation. First, because leaving the United Kingdom means a very significant decrease in contributions and, secondly, because new priorities have been added to the traditional policies of the European Union. The priority in science has been strengthened, the priority in defence has been added, the priority in security has been increased, the priority in relation to migration policies has been increased. I believe that none of us are in good condition to defend that these new investments are not important, because Europe lives, in fact, surrounded by various external threats, terrorism is an effective threat, and Europe's competitiveness depends on a strong investment in research and development capacity that sustains a development strategy based on innovation. They are therefore good priorities to which we must correspond. What is not acceptable is that the European Union wants to do more without giving the European Commission the necessary resources to do what it requires. I want to say that the European Commission has been very constructive in its approach to Portugal. We have worked very well, not only with Commissioner Carlos Moedas, but also with President Juncker, Commissioner Cretu, responsible for cohesion policy, Commissioner Hogan, responsible for agricultural policy, and with other Commissioners. It has been a difficult and constructive negotiation. The application of the first rule involved a 30 % cut of transfers to Portugal. And why? Because our unemployment has fallen significantly, because we have few refugees, because we have had greater economic growth than many other regions. There are several regions of Italy and several regions of Spain which were transition regions and were once again in convergence, there were several regions in Italy and Spain which had ceased to be transition regions and became. So when we compare who comes up and who comes down, we often lose the notion of reality. It is that there are countries that actually have a percentage rise, as is the case with Spain, but when we compare with Portugal, which has a percent drop, we find that we receive almost three times as much from a per capita point of view as Spain receives. This means that in absolute values we are still the fifth largest beneficiary of the European Union. The PSD sometimes says "they did wrong because they should be with the so-called Friends of Cohesion". I've quoted here recently what happened to the so-called Friends of Cohesion. This group had cuts between 23 % and 25 % in cohesion policy. If we have reason to be dissatisfied with a 6 % reduction, we imagine the degree of dissatisfaction that these countries should have among the Friends of Cohesion with a cut of 23 % to 25 %. What strategy should we follow? First, we must be consistent and say that if there are new challenges we will go to them, but without sacrificing what we have done well. If there are fewer taxpayers and more spending, we need to put more money and, therefore, we cannot continue to promise too much and to pay less and therefore we are available to increase the contribution. What is being discussed, in fact, to have the notion, is not much. It was sufficient to rise from 1, 14 % of gross national income to 1, 18 % or 1, 23 % for no one to lose either at current prices or at constant prices. So what we were all supposed to do was fulfill 1, 18 % or 1, 23 % and solve this problem. Secondly, we must also discuss the budgetary capacity of the euro area and the multiannual financial resources. The budgetary capacity of the euro area, which has happily reached a broader consensus today, has different components. A component, in which France essentially insisted for a long time, was a stabilisation function in the face of crises. We, on our own experience, know the importance of a monetary union to have this stabilisation function. But there is another dimension, which has been the priority for which we have been beaten, and which is absolutely essential, that there is a capacity to invest for convergence. This is because only by reducing asymmetries do we stabilize the euro zone as a whole. It is therefore very important that the Commission has proposed an instrument to support reforms, which aims precisely to finance this mechanism. I believe that the Commission has made an insufficient amount of 22 billion, and I believe that it has found a wrong distribution key, which is based on the population, but our proposal has been to have another distribution key which, depending on whether it is accepted, would allow Portugal not only to have an increase of EUR 500 million resulting from the Commission proposal but which could be between EUR 2000 and EUR 4 billion. This is a proposal which we consider serious and which, of course, aims to concentrate the effort on those countries which have to have a convergence effort in order to stabilize the euro zone. I was pleased that, in a statement adopted yesterday by the French and German governments, this mechanism is planned and that it is restricted to the 19 euro area countries. I believe that we are on the right track so that we can find here an important instrument. Then there are other things we need to look at. For example, as regards cohesion policy, we have looked a lot at such 6 % of the differential, but these 6 % only disappear if there is more money from the contributions, otherwise between countries that still want to reduce their contributions and countries that have gross cuts of 23 % and 25% it is clear that those who have a cut of 6 % can hardly get much better there. But there are other subjects that are key and that have to do with the participation rate. It is that, at the rate of participation in the convergence regions, what the Commission proposes is a reduction of 85 % to 70 %, which would mean a very serious effort by the national budget. That is where we need to correct this matter with regard to the participation rates. with regard to the common agricultural policy, we have to beat ourselves because there can be no reduction to a country that has to make the investment that we have to make, both in the development of the interior and in rural development, or in the reorganisation of forests, and which is clearly below those that are the transfers of EU support per hectare. The European Union average is 260 € per hectare and we receive 205 € per hectare. Now, there is no reason for us to still have a reduction and we do not continue the trajectory of the next session to 260 € per hectare. Thirdly, cutting on the second pillar is the same for all, that is, countries like ours, where 50 % of CAP revenues are the second pillar, have a cut similar to that for countries for whom the second pillar represents only 8 %. Now, this is a huge distortion that cannot exist and must be corrected. Finally, we must be struck by a fundamental principle: the principle of convergence must be transversal to all policies, even those which are not affected by national envelopes and which are centralised and competitive management. This is the case with science policy, it is the case with defence policy, or we also introduce here the principle of convergence or what will happen, for example, in the field of science...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u195	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u196	I will now finish, Mr President. As I said, what will happen, for example, in the field of science is that growth from 80,000 to 100 billion euros of investment in science will naturally be concentrated in the more developed countries, accentuated by asymmetries. Therefore, what we propose is that part of these 100 billion can be reserved for a period of two years for indicative national envelopes, where the country can present projects that have sufficient merit to be approved...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u197	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u198	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. As I said, what we propose is that part of these 100 billion can be reserved for an indicative national envelope for a period of two years, where the country can present projects that have sufficient merit to be approved so that we do not aggravate asymmetries, but, on the contrary, to which investment in science can be — as it has to be — a factor in correcting asymmetries and an engine for innovation as the engine of our country's development. This is the strategy we have and which, serenely, but definitely, we will continue to pursue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u199	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate on the first item on the agenda. We shall proceed to the preparatory debate of the next European Council, under Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process, on the various instruments of economic governance of the European Union which form part of the European Semester, as well as the discussion and adoption of the annual report, sent by the Government, Portugal to the European Union — 2017, in accordance with Article 4(1) ( b ) and ( d ). the one of the same Law. To open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will spare in this speech the time tolerance which Mr President has given me in the first debate, since I will not mention, since I have already had the opportunity to mention the two central points of the Council, which are the reform of the euro area and the multiannual financial framework. with regard to migration, we are certainly far from the dramatic situation of the 2015 crisis. It is a matter which, as we know, has been deeply divisive but which is central to the affirmation of the future of the European Union. As far as Portugal is concerned, we remain firm about the values that we have always defended and with a position of responsibility and solidarity, as we have stated and how I had the opportunity to develop recently while responding to Mrs Catarina Martins. Another key issue is trade. It is essential that the European Union reaffirm the importance of maintaining the multilateral international trade system and contribute to strengthening the functioning of WTO mechanisms ( World Trade Organisation ), particularly when some partners, such as the United States of America, act unilaterally and contrary to the World Trade Organisation's own rules. while we must do so on this multilateral basis, we must also continue to negotiate bilateral agreements, especially with Mercosur, which is of particular importance to the future of the European Union's economy. Finally, I would like to point out that the issue of digital innovation is central to the development of the European economy, science, innovation and therefore the next multiannual financial framework should have an important coverage so that we can strengthen Europe's investment conditions in the digital economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u201	Mrs. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group wishes to distribute the time available for two speeches. To give the first speech, Mrs Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u202	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: There was also a question about the negotiation of the next Community financial framework, which was not very clear in the successive rounds of the 15-year debate, having noted the silence of the Left Block on the defence of national interest, and we are therefore looking forward to that party's intervention on this matter - it should be noted that the European Union is good to beat and to make media numbers as long as the Community funds arrive, but to know how to negotiate these funds is irrelevant. Mr Prime Minister, 13 Member States have won or maintained their envelopes in these negotiations, and Portugal has lost. We have to repeat this question: after all, with Brexit, that is, with the way out of the United Kingdom, the financial envelopes should not have fallen for everyone? With regard to the CAP and the fall of the second pillar, which has also been mentioned, the sector's demand is currently falling short because there have been many candidatures in the RDP 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 ) and, worse still, have been left with the Commission's scenarios. It is good that there should indeed be consultation with our European partners and other governments in relation to the serious effects of climate change, which the CAP should also respond to and try to do so. Mr Prime Minister, can recent changes in the Spanish Government or not hinder general and specific negotiations on the CAP in the alliance between Portugal and Spain? The Spanish Minister for Economic Affairs has already pointed out that he was defending precisely a cut in agricultural policy. What about Italy? We could discuss the next European Council, but it seems that the conclusions were already made in Messeberg, Germany, between the French President and the German Chancellor. Mr. Prime Minister, you should recall your statements when you spoke at the World Economic Forum in Davos, in January 2018. in the national press it could be read that « the Portuguese Government rejects the idea of a Europe concentrated on the French-German axis, which relegates Portugal to a second plan ». But Mr Prime Minister also said that he does not have an agreement between France and Germany and that we need to have an agreement to 27, which is true. We will see whether the conclusions of the next European Council will not be a copy of the statement by Messeberg yesterday. Mr Prime Minister, on migrants and refugees, France and Germany say that there needs to be an improvement in the sharing of refugees' reception, something we also follow. How does this coincide with the recent news that Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union that most refuses asylum applications? It is that 64% of the requests made to Portugal are rejected, we are one of the countries that most refuse. Let us not forget, Mr Prime Minister, that in this statement by Messeberg, as a last step, the girl in Macron's eyes is hidden: the transnational lists. After the Portuguese Government's zighuzag on this matter, we would like to recall that its last position was against the transnational lists. But let's see if they don't sign anything blank next week. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u203	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u204	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government: It is up to me to mention the report on Portugal's participation in the European Union, which is also part of our agenda today. The report is complete and fulfils a formal obligation of accountability to the Assembly of the Republic, but the truth is that that is not enough. It is not enough to fulfil formal obligations, it is not enough to come, it is indeed necessary to involve Parliament. With regard to this, I would like to recall the late and opaque way in which the Government has dealt with Parliament in relation to permanent structured cooperation in the area of security and defence, and this is because in the European Union we are today discussing many important issues for our common future and because it is essential that the Government not only keep the Assembly of the Republic informed on all developments in the various dossiers, as it did in advance get a position of the elected representatives concerted and truly representative of the country. At the beginning of the Government's report, the European credentials of the Portuguese political class are referred to. It is true that the overwhelming majority of Portuguese support our European integration, including the single currency, is no less true that the Government depends on a parliamentary majority which includes very critical parties from the European Union and the rules of the single currency, often saying that they are an obstacle to the development of the country. We heard him here today. We do not know whether the Government believes that the Bloc and the CFP are, in essence, Europeanists because they approve the budgets that allow them to comply with the rules or if they are, in fact, irrelevant to the above-mentioned European credentials in the country. Moreover, on the process of deepening the European Union, which is well mentioned in this report, we would also like to recall that those who put this matter on the agenda first, with deeply reformist proposals, were then Prime Minister of Portugal, Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, in May 2015. It is good for the Government to continue to defend these ideas as well as to recognize the contribution of the previous Government in this matter, as well as the fact that it was the Government that recovered the country from a bankruptcy situation and recovered the credibility of the partners it now benefits from. Finally, because it also contains the report, it is no less important to highlight the successive warnings which the European Commission has left to Portugal on the vulnerabilities of the national economy and the excessive dependence on public finances from an external environment which is particularly favourable but also of course weak. The crisis that Europe is still emerging was a warning that cannot be ignored about the necessity of taking advantage of the positive phases of the economic cycle to make the structural reforms that the country needs and we will put ourselves in a better position to face future crises. We know that the structural reforms are alarming Mr. Prime Minister — speaking, indeed, in pungent expressions — but the country needs these reforms and the government has an obligation to carry out them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u205	In representation of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u206	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The European Council will naturally discuss very important issues, but perhaps the one that will mark it most will be that of migration, which has been at the heart of the political agenda again after the lamentable episode of Aquarium. I would like to remind you that this episode is not new. Recalls the episodes of CapAnamur, in 2004, and Francisco y Catalina, in 2006. These were small boats, with refugees on board, which were not allowed to plunder because Italy, Spain, Malta and France refused, and thus sailed days and days in the Mediterranean. This is perhaps the most divisive issue in the European Union, but also within the Member States, as the recent political crisis in Germany shows us. Despite all the efforts the European Union has made to « secure » the management of its migrations and to carry out border controls, the truth is that irregular migration in the Mediterranean has been an endemic phenomenon since 2000, which only in 2016 caused more than 20 000 deaths. Despite all the reinforcement of Frontex and the entire Sophia military operation, more than 5,000 people died trying to cross the Mediterranean. This is the most lethal border of the world. Therefore, a paradigm shift is required that is not yet to happen. It is precisely today that we are marking the World Refugee Day and that we should remember our duty to protect refugees as a civilized nation, which really discusses how to keep refugees away from the European continent, despite reaching the European continent a very small percentage of refugees worldwide. The overwhelming majority of the countries that really have the burden on refugee protection are those that are in border areas of conflict. I remember one number: a small country like Lebanon is hosting 1 million Syrian refugees today. The great Europe, as a whole, is not only the European Union — it receives the same number of Syrian refugees. Therefore, the burden of responsibility with the protection of refugees is certainly not in Europe. But it is in Europe that this issue is more divisible, where of course there are Member States which are faced with massive flows, while others have much smaller flows. Despite the fact that there has been a whole policy which has been absolutely crowned with having had little success in managing migratory flows in a human, regular and safe manner, the truth is that in this European Council we are going to discuss a regulation which is very important, which is the Dublin Regulation. This Regulation speaks German and has established, since the 1990s, as the first criterion of responsibility for an asylum application, the first country of entry. What we are currently doing, while maintaining this criterion, which will ultimately lead to the protection of refugees to the countries on the front line, is mitigating this Regulation with another value which should be the cement of the European Union, which is the value of solidarity — solidarity expressed not only through financial support but also through the physical reception of refugees; solidarity which is being denied by many countries. Other worrying signs, Prime Minister, come from Europe, more specifically from Austria, which has already announced that if negotiations fail, it will adopt the so-called « Australian paradigm ». I would just like to recall that this Australian paradigm has already been tested by Berlusconi Italy and the Libyan Republic of Kadhafi and has been considered human rights violator by the European Court of Human Rights. Today, we all agreed with the statement by Messeberg, which basically insists on the same point of view and the same policy: a policy of restraint, as if it were possible to stop the wind with its hands. Instead of a policy of immigration and asylum, of rational management of migration flows, there is a policy of containment, I repeat, as if it were possible to stop the wind with its hands. This is unless the President of the European Council recovers an old idea, but very close to Hungary in Orbán, which is the creation of hotspots or screening centres in the southern Mediterranean countries — the old revenue from the outsourcing of immigration policy, the result of which was purely and simply to transform the Mediterranean into the most lethal border of the world at the gates of Europe. What I ask you, Prime Minister, to conclude, is the following: how will Portugal stand? Will you follow the easy way to ride the fear of people or the most difficult way of intransigent defense of our fundamental values, such as solidarity and intransigent respect for the human rights of anyone? Oh, my God! That's what I'd like to know, Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u207	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: There are only a few days left for the next European Council on 28 and 29 June, but the news indicates what will be the centre of the debate, i.e. migration, the euro area and the budget. The problem with these news is that we have the Franco-German axis with joint proposals, as has already been mentioned, and this is an alliance of bad augurs. In fact, it is easy to see that we are faced with proposals that respond more to the internal problems of each of the countries, when, in fact, what we needed was solutions of solidarity between the peoples. Therefore, the option is being for political nullity and anti-humanist cynicism. The informal meeting of Juncker to prepare for the Summit, choosing only a few countries for the negotiating table and leaving Portugal outside, shows once again the European construction of the directories and elites. For example, the path of proposals such as the displacement of hotspots far away from European territory is indeed a grave concession to racist and xenophobic blackmail of various movements and governments within the European Union. The question for Portugal and the Government is going to support these proposals which have been announced on the German side, because these proposals, born to respond to divergences within the German Government, are too close, for example, to Viktor Orbán's proposals. Therefore, it is regrettable, if that is the way forward, letting the drama of the cemetery in which the Mediterranean has become in recent years. But there is another question, Mr Prime Minister : in the face of the emergency that each day lives and Italy's expected refusal to receive more refugees and migrants, the ad hoc method, which has occurred, to see which country is proposed first to receive shipwrecks, will become a rule? Do you think this makes any sense right now? in this European Union, Prime Minister, it is not only the refugees who are at the door, it is also human rights and international solidarity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u209	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u210	Mr Prime Minister, on the other big issue, which is the reform of the euro area, also the Franco-German agreement does not bring good news. Mr Prime Minister has talked a lot about the reform of the euro area, but so far, without his own ideas, on the table, leaving the indication that he is in line with Macron's proposals. So the questions are: does this mean that it agrees with the creation of a common budget among the countries of the euro zone? Do you agree with the creation of a European finance minister? Does it agree with the reduction in budgetary sovereignty of national parliaments? Do you agree with that, which has already proved to be a bad recipe for the people? Oh, my God! And also knowing that in Portugal we only started to have economic growth and budgets that respond to the citizens, because we have cut off exactly with European austerity policies, the question is whether the acceptance of these proposals is an act of repentance by the Prime Minister. Does it accept the victory of European technocracy, which is above democracy? All these issues are linked and it is now undeniable that, if we want to combat the growth of the extreme right, we will first have to admit that it has been fueled by the existing European elite and its policies. by systematically refusing to democratise the European political process and by deepening austerity mechanisms, the current European elite helped to encourage the arrival of several governments of extreme-right movements. I do not want to understand this process and to insist on measures and proposals that are more of the same, but to worsen it is to leave the way open for the European Union to become more and more rapidly a box of horrors, to which Trump now extends his sympathy. And after all, human rights are disappearing from the fight against the European Union. In an unequal Europe, marked by divergence, the proposal for a European budget is one more mistake: cutting into cohesion policy is actually making the choice of disaggregation. We have no doubt that the Government has endeavoured to improve the conditions of this budget for Portugal, but much more is needed. We cannot repeat what has historically always been done by the socialist governments, faced with the European right: they have reservations, disagree, are concerned, make warnings, but then they support and vote in favour. Mr Prime Minister, I have heard you say that you want to reform Europe, that you want a cohesion Europe. So if you want to reform Europe and if you want to defend the country, you must say that this Community budget cannot pass and will not pass. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u211	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor, too, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u212	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr.a and Mr. State Secretaries, Mr.as and Mrs. Members: Before going to the other issues of the European Council, allow me, Prime Minister, just one more final and quick note on the next Community framework. Mr. Prime Minister is here trying to do something that is impossible: explain what is inexplicable! No one understands, Mr. Prime Minister, how is it that the cohesion funds, which are exactly those that are used for countries to converge with the European average, come down in Portugal and go up in Spain or Italy. Mr Prime Minister is here to explain, referring to the Berlin criteria, unemployment and a number of other matters, but it should be concerned and not in line with a proposal which is bad for Portugal and which no one understands. Download the cohesion funds for Portugal and upload them to Spain or Italy is inexplicable! What the Government should be doing right now is opposing this proposal and not trying to explain it to the Portuguese Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u214	Second note, Prime Minister : we are following very closely, of course, and this also has to do with the agenda of this Council, the meeting that took place yesterday between the German Chancellor and the President of the French Republic, Mr Macron. This meeting has some conclusions which seem to us to be positive, such as those relating to the completion of the architecture of the euro area, which is a matter which is very relevant for Portugal, but it also has subjects on which we want to express our strangeness here. And I will explain to you why we want to express here that we do not support proposals that are envisaged there, for example, to reduce the number of Commissioners, allowing some countries, particularly the smaller and medium-sized countries, to lose their Commissioner, or proposals on transnational lists. I will then explain to you why we are doing this here before the representatives of the Portuguese people. In January this year, Mr Prime Minister went to a summit in Rome with a number of countries and, without Parliament's mandate, he signed a statement supporting the transnational lists in candidatures of the European Parliament, which is an idea that Portugal is deeply wrong, is a bad idea for us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u216	Mr. Prime Minister, without any kind of mandate, went there and supported this proposal by Mr. Macron, but then he arrived in Portugal and, by the way, he must have regretted a little, because he came to say that he did not agree very much with the idea. The grave thing, Prime Minister, is that the idea made its way and was in the statement yesterday. That is why I would like to ask you, and Mr. Prime Minister must say that here in Parliament...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u217	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u218	... a very simple thing: at the next European Council, what will Portugal say on these two issues, i.e. reducing the number of Commissioners, allowing some countries not to have commissioners and transnational lists? It was very important for the Prime Minister to be clear here and above all that it was very clear at the next European summit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u220	Then, Mr. Prime Minister, even within the time available, I would like to ask you a third question. I said a few days ago, Mr Vice-President of the European Commission, Frans Timmermans, that we will have a European Council at an auspicious time. Unfortunately, it does not seem to me to be an auspicious moment, on the contrary, it seems to me a particularly embarrassing moment. The crisis that occurred with the Aquarius episode made it very visible a fracture that unfortunately existed long ago within the Union, at least since 2012 in a very clear way, and which has to do with the issue of migration and refugees and the collapse of the European decision-making system. This crisis, which began to be a humanitarian crisis, became, very quickly, an institutional crisis and was the very decision-making system that collapsed. Nor should we go back to 2013, it is enough to mention that at the last European Council in December 2017, we were told that by June 2018 we would have to reach an agreement, a consensus, on the internal dimension of our migration policy, but the truth is that June has arrived and unfortunately it does not seem to me that this same consensus will exist in the next Council. It is precisely for this reason, Prime Minister, who would like to ask you two questions which, for us, are very relevant. The European Union cannot continue, five years after the start of this migration crisis, without a mechanism that makes it possible to distinguish between what are refugees fleeing from war situations and what are economic migrants, until we know that at this time there is a path that is growing very much, which is the route of the Western Mediterranean, very close to our border. It seems to me that the answer that is partly on the table may also not be the best and, indeed, this is exactly an issue we have already put to Mr Foreign Minister but to which he has not yet responded. The German Chancellor, at the beginning of this month, also at a meeting with President Macron, spoke of the need for a European Community decision, a decision which is now a national decision, which is the granting of refugee status, and therefore, in this logic, to make this policy a Community policy. I would like to see Mr. Prime Minister tell us what the Portuguese Government really thinks about this subject and also, now, realizing that the route of the Western Mediterranean is the road which is now still growing — almost one third of the refugees who arrived in Europe last year have come along this route — I would like to ask you whether the Government will or will not anticipate the mobilization of the quota with which it has undertaken to strengthen Frontex in 2019. Is the government planning to anticipate this same reinforcement or not? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u221	Mr President, I will confess to you that it was not tolerance, it was even distraction.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u222	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u223	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u224	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard several statements here today by the Prime Minister, of joy, of enthusiasm, of confidence in the next European Council and its conclusions, but let me tell you that on our part, the CFP, we have all doubts about this prospect of confidence on the agenda of the next European Council and on the path it is intended to take. Mr Prime Minister, when we heard about the reform of the euro, in conclusion of the economic and monetary union, in the so-called growth and employment policy, in the security and defence policy or in matters as relevant as migration, we find no prospect on the agenda of the next European Council that can rest the people of Europe on the discussion that will be taken and on the prospect of conclusions that it is intended. What we find, in dealing with these matters, is the nature of the European Union, the deepening of its militaristic and federalist character, the instruments of economic and political domain that serve the interests of the great powers but which objectively harm, and have severely harmed countries such as Portugal. What we find is the deepening of social injustice and the liquidation of rights, the prospect of deepening the way of privatization of public services and, for example, with regard to migration, the same options and the same concepts of repeated disrespect for the rights of migrants and refugees, which have led, in particular, to the denunciation by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees of the agreement which the European Union has concluded with Turkey, not only with regard to its results but also with regard to the concept of disrespect for the rights of migrants and refugees. What we have found is the same European Union which in the last two and a half years has resisted and tried to counter to the maximum the replacement of rights and incomes in Portugal and which once again, in terms of the designated policy of growth and employment, seeks to create conditions for new steps towards the liquidation of workers'rights throughout Europe. What we find is the same European Union which affirms and seeks to put on the table the objective of strengthening the financial resources allocated to the security and defence policy, to the belligerent pillar of the European Union, while seeking, in particular, through budgetary targets, which, moreover, the Portuguese Government accepts and fulfils, prevents investment in health, education or employment. What we find is the goals that limit investment in transport or culture and which make it difficult to have policies for the development of the rural world or the interior. We find the same European Union which wants to cut Portugal's already lean compensation through Community funds, with the enormous damage our country continues to suffer, because of common policies and the single market. We find the European Union itself, Prime Minister, which affirms the objectives for the completion of the banking union, when we see in particular the situation of the General Deposit Box, which means for the country to deepen this objective. Mr Prime Minister, what has become increasingly clear with this announcement, which, moreover, already in the last half-year debate we had mentioned, concerning the agencies of the General Deposit Box, and which, in the meantime, has been confirmed, is that the conditions imposed on Portugal for the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box are truly the sole objective of feeding the business of the private bank, because of the shrinking, of the restriction of the activity of the public bank. in closing the agencies of the General Deposit Box we are now facing is a concrete example of what the European Union policies serve, particularly within the framework of banking union. Therefore, Prime Minister, if there were any doubts, the Franco-German agreement, with all matters related to the so-called euro reform, with the creation of a budget for the euro area, with the reduction of the number of Commissioners, following the deepening of the power of the great powers in the European Parliament, with the institutionalisation of the troika, with the creation of the European Monetary Fund, and even with the deepening of the militaristic drift of the European Union, is confirming the true objectives of this discussion and the path which is intended to deepen at the level of the European Union. Therefore, Prime Minister, we continue to say that what is needed is a policy that truly places the development of the country and the response to serious national problems as a priority rather than the acceptance of the taxes made by the European Union, against national interests, which limit the capacity of the country to develop and respond to the structural problems that persist. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u225	To speak, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u226	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Greens also believe that there should be no great illusions about a path that the European Union has pursued, which insists on continuing and that the Greens have repeatedly denounced in the interventions they have made, particularly in these preparatory sessions of the European Councils. That is: the insistence on investment in a militaristic policy, and the power-CL - it would even be called armamentist, to the detriment of a true policy of solidarity among peoples, in which migrants, in particular, concern; and a logic of deepening federalism, pursued by the European Union, with benefits for the great powers and forgetting the effective cohesion needs of the weaker economies. And I believe that this Franco-German agreement demonstrates that. But the great concern of the Greens is, of course, also about the matter of the Community budget, which attacks, as has already been pointed out and underlined today, cohesion policy and agricultural policy at the level of the European Union. And it was very quickly about this agricultural policy that the Greens would like to focus on expressing a particular concern to the Prime Minister, from the outset, with regard to the reduction of budget appropriations. because this reduction of funds in Portugal has a profound impact on the second pillar of the CAP, i.e. on rural development, and taking into account the effort we have to make to re-enhancing our rural world and its activity, we consider that this is deeply negative, because it affects our ability to produce more and to guarantee greater food sovereignty on our part. As is public knowledge, we are today much more dependent on foreign food than we were when we joined, then, the EEC (European Economic Community), i.e. the policies that affected us, in this perspective, were aimed at withdrawing our productive capacity and generating greater dependence on the outside. Another concern is the continuation of direct aid at the level of the common agricultural policy, which promotes great benefits to large owners, large agro-industry, without effectively linking them to real production. This is a concern which the Greens have repeatedly expressed and that they would like the government to echo at European Council level as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u227	To close the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u228	Mr President, Mrs Rubina Berardo, in fact it is not enough for France and Germany and that is why, when we sit at 27, many will be those who will refuse what France and Germany propose. If you hear some of the best friends of our former Government and of Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, you will certainly find that many will be against much of the proposals that France and Germany make. The Netherlands, Finland and other countries will certainly be against all proposals for the reform of the euro area. But the reform of the euro area is indeed essential, even because if we want to ensure once and for all that the euro is not an obstacle to our economic development and does not emphasize asymmetries, we must conclude this economic and monetary union. To conclude, it is absolutely essential to have budgetary capacity, to have a budget. There is no monetary zone in the world that works without having its own budget, and that budget is essential. In fact, we have put forward a number of proposals in this regard, and others have also done so yesterday, in fact, to France and Germany. And they presented three proposals which, in my view, will, in the proper sense, be the first of which is the transformation of the European Stabilization Mechanism into a guarantee mechanism in the face of serious crises, such as those we have suffered in the past, with the possibility of a short-term and low-condition credit line to solve liquidity problems. They presented for the first time a joint proposal to have a real budget for the euro area, with two functions, one, of stabilization, which France has indeed for a long time defended in various ways, and which is here proposed through a European unemployment stabilization fund, and another, with a component which is, for us, essential and for which I have repeatedly and insistently beaten myself, which is to have an investment mechanism to allow convergence. This convergence mechanism — which has, in fact, been tested in a pilot project by the European Commission — would allow funding for a set of policies that are essential for Portugal to be able to recover its delay in relation to the rest of the European Union and improve its levels of competitiveness. The focus here is very clear: qualifications and innovation, which is exactly what we need. Therefore, what I hope, at this point, is that the debate at the European Council will strengthen and improve the Franco-German proposal and will not be a step backwards. With all honesty, I realize that there are those who do not want us to be in the euro, but once they are, it is better to be able to invest to overcome the lack of competitiveness that we have and correct asymmetries than simply be suffering the asymmetrical shocks of an effort of competitiveness that we do not have to suffer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u229	If there were to be these compensations, there was no euro!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u230	I know! Yes, yes! The second issue is migration, which is a central issue for the European Union. I accompany Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa in defending the review of the Dublin Convention and in a responsible and supportive sharing of the tasks of ensuring international protection, but I think we must reflect well on the regulation of migration flows. It is essential to create safe migration channels, if we do not want to maintain the dramatic mortality that we have had in the Mediterranean and that is offensive to all of us. To have this organization, these channels must begin to be organized on the side of the Mediterranean. One thing is, as some have defended in the past, the existence of concentration camps, containment camps on the side of the Mediterranean side, something else entirely different is the creation of channels, in partnership with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the European Commission, in order to organize migration flows. It is that the problem is not just the prohibition of entry on the side of here, the problem begins right through. That's where great mortality occurs and where we have to be able to intervene. Thirdly, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I am not a spokesman for the European Commission. contrary to what he intended to say, I did not come here to explain and justify the proposal of the European Commission. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u231	You made a good part of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u232	I have repeatedly explained why this proposal is not good and why we must fight to make it better. But I must also tell you this: if you are the Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS want to enter here in a contest of those who win the most and those who earn the least, they already know that what VV. Ex.the negotiations in the previous Community framework are less than we have been able to achieve in the present. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u233	Seriously, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u234	It is good that we do not enter this championship, which is indeed absolutely useless for the Portuguese, because what the Portuguese want today is that all of us, from the Left Block to the CDS-PP, the Government and the Members of the European Parliament, have beaten ourselves to have as many resources as possible...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u235	Answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u236	...to continue our development in cohesion policy, agricultural policy, science policy, defence policy, that is, in all policies of the European Union. That's what we should focus on! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u237	The CDS is transformed into the MRPP of the Community Funds!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u238	I would also like to tell you that, in the Franco-German document, there are parts that we accompany and there are parts that we do not follow. What is said, moreover, about the number of Commissioners is said in accordance with the Treaty of Lisbon, because it already contains this Treaty, it is no novelty. With regard to transnational lists, I have never signed any statements to defend them. I have signed a statement saying that transnational lists are an important topic for the enhancement of European democracy. It's explained and re-explained, it's not worth returning to the subject. Finally, in conclusion, I would like to reply to Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, telling her two very simple things: the first, essential in terms of credibility, is that when you left the Government, you left the country on the edge of sanctions for failure to meet the deficit objectives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from the PSD and CDS-PP, having the Members beaten with their feet on the ground.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u239	We need to get rid of those who left the country in bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u240	He left in his drawer for fulfilling his commitment to solve the Banif problem before the elections, confining it to autonomous and foreign regions, which would have saved the Bank's resolution. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u241	Are you kidding? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u242	Finally, I wanted to say to you, for your tranquillity, that no one has done better to strengthen the confidence and support of Portuguese people in Europe than the present majority and their policies. It is sufficient to consult the Eurobarometer to see that Portuguese confidence in the European Union has fallen during the four years when you were in government and have risen in these three years since you were no longer in government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u243	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u244	Mr Pedro Mota Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u245	For an appeal to the Bureau, in order to request the distribution of a document, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u246	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u247	Mr President, the Prime Minister has just said that he has never expressed support for the idea of transnational lists. I have a statement here, signed by the Prime Minister in January this year, which says 'We support'. I am sorry, Mr President, for being reading it in English, but the Portuguese Government has not even worked to translate it into Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u248	in the Community funds, the CDS is like the MRPP : the worse, the better! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-20.u249	The Bureau will distribute the document, Mr President, only ask you to bring it to the Bureau. After the preparatory debate of the next European Council, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government for their presence and congratulations. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, completed by today's work, it remains to inform me that tomorrow's next plenary session will take place at 3 p.m. on the agenda of the joint debate, in general, of draft law No 884 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Elimination of increased tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) ( CDS-PP ) from draft resolution No 1653 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reduction of the tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) ( PSD ) of Bill No 400 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reduce the price of road gas through the level of incorporation of biofuels ( PCP ) in draft resolution No 1703 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — proposes the immediate reduction of the ISP and its adequacy in relation to the increase in the price of oil ( PCP ) and draft law No 922/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — eliminates the additional tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) and approves monthly revisions of the unit rates of tax applicable to leadless petrol and road gas oil to the continent ( BE ). I would like to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to a legislative agenda, there is the possibility of voting at the end of the debate. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 55 minutes.]]
