ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let us begin our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of today's agenda include, as you know, a debate on demography required by the CDS-PP under Article 64. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, in which the Drafts of Law Nos 986 / XIII / 3 will be jointly assessed. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to the Tax Code on Added Value, approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December, in order to exempt from VAT all promoters of day care, kindergartens, homes, among others irrespective of their legal nature, 987 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to Decree-Law No 72 / 2017 of 21 June in order to promote a bonus to companies that follow practices that are friendly to the reconciliation of work with family life, gender equality and birth, 988 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax, approved by Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November 2003 in order to restore the reduction of the municipal tax rate on buildings of taxable persons with dependent dependants as a percentage of the value of the property, 989 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code increases the duration of the initial parental leave for 210 days and the duration of the initial parental leave from the third child, 990 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Benefits within IRC to companies that promote family responsible behaviors, 991 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Second amendment to Law No 4 / 2007 of 16 January to reduce or remove the sustainability factor to pensioners with two or more children, and 992 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Change the IRS Code in order to restore and strengthen the family quotient, and Resolution Projects Nos 1800 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a possible committee for monitoring initiatives on family and birth, 1801 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — For an integrated policy of birth and family valuation, and 1809 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Establishment of a possible parliamentary committee for analysis and discussion of ideas, projects and proposals for combating demographic decline. I should like to inform you that any vote on these legislative initiatives, as set out in the second item of the agenda, will take place at the end of the plenary session, so I would ask the parliamentary groups to alert their Members. In the meantime, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, has the floor to make some announcements to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is necessary to announce the expiry of the procedure relating to the assessment of Decree-Law No 90 / 2017 of 28 July which amends the legal system of social income for insertion[ Parliamentary appraisals No 43 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) and 44 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), since all proposed amendments were rejected in the voting field. Mr President, it is also important to vote on an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the suspension of the mandate of Mr Luís Soares ( PS ), Braga electoral circle, and its replacement by Lucinda Fonseca, on 27 September 2018, limiting itself to and ending at the end of this day. The opinion is to suspend the mandate of the Member concerned and its replacement is to be admitted, since they comply with the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then start the debate, for which Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has spoken, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the context of the CDS-PP's own-initiative agenda, we begin first of all with what is important to affirm and see from a political point of view. The reversal of birth falls is not being verified and for almost 40 years the fertility rate has been below the desirable, from the point of view of generational renewal. This circumstance is serious, it is serious for social balance and calls into question our continuity as a historical community, it calls into question the economic vitality and financial soundness of the social state itself. Demographic development and birth is therefore serious. And we ask ourselves, why are no more Portuguese born? Are those people who don't want to have children? The answers to these questions are known: Portuguese systematically answer that they would like to have more children—or have more children or have more than those they have. Giving conditions to reverse the trend is not only important at individual level, it is a national design, a real priority. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It has been more than 10 years since the CDS presented the Christmas Report—The Portuguese Challenge. This report was worth putting the issue on the agenda in a structured and autonomous way, with analysis of sociological and statistical data, listing of existing measures and proposals for new policies. Since then, other parties have gradually come to recognize the importance of the topic. In the last 10 years, reports and studies have taken place that give reason to what we were saying and that unfortunately confirm what was being learned. The frequency with which the issue emerges and submerges on the political agenda can, however, throw us in a misconception, because, despite today's greater awareness of its importance, its decisive importance for our future, the truth is that unfortunately the reality of 10 years ago has not been reversed. We know that this is a challenge shared by Europe and, in general, by the most developed countries. at this time, this is an unmistakable issue on the European political agenda and many countries have adopted integrated policies to promote birth and family life. The experience of these countries demonstrates not only the urgency of the issue and policies but also, above all, that it is possible to reverse the fall in birth. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u5	We in Portugal are one of the worst examples and we are below the other countries that are bad, so the CDS again presents a set of initiatives that reflect the importance of this concern and the priority we give it. We therefore want a serious, clear and direct debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u7	The CDS is not at stake, but each of the proposals that we are proud to present at the service of the country at the service of the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u9	And what are those proposals? First, they are proposals that aim to reduce the tax burden, and others, of families, by combating injustices and obstacles to families, in short, are proposed for each child to count in the evaluation of family income, from then on in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons). The income recovery system must take into account not only the members of the couple, because the family is not only made of the couple, but the couple, or single parents, if appropriate, and also each of their dependents, whether they are smaller or not, because dividing a income by only two people is different from dividing by the two people plus the number of dependents. We therefore retake the measure of the family quotient and follow a model that is tested, which was not invented by the CDS. It is a model whose implementation celebrates this year 70 years of entry into force in France, the country with the best birth indicators of the European Union ( EU ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u10	But there's immigration!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u11	He's 70 years old, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! It has passed through parties and governments of right and left, but it prevails, and it prevails with results, because it is fair and has evidence given, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The same is true of the IMI (municipal property tax) family. In our proposal, we propose to strengthen the accounting of dependents, giving priority to the third child, in the same way as in France once again. The logic is the same in the family rates of water, gas and electricity: whenever, in the supply of essential goods, the step is progressive depending on consumption, it is fair that the number of dependents should be taken into account, because the needs of a family with two members are not the same as those of a family with four members, and we cannot penalise the numerous families. The same applies to the exemption from moderate rates, in which the status of the couple with economic insufficiency is determined only by the income of that couple and does not take into account, once again, the existence of children, which can determine a very different purchasing power. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, families demand and we must be consistent in implementing regimes that avoid iniquity and injustice on families, that combat the invisibility of children and that promote that each child counts when it comes to ensuring the income of a family. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The second axis of proposals concerns the reconciliation of professional life with family life, promoting gender equality and family friendly companies. We know that this is an essential axis and therefore we propose strengthening parental leave, its enlargement whenever it promotes the division of tasks and the enjoyment of licences exclusively by the different parents, as well as from the third child. We also propose strengthening regimes, such as telework, which introduce flexibility for those who can and want to work from home and have conditions to do so, introducing a concept in force in other systems: smart working or agile work. We also propose incentives for recruitment, increased by promoting measures for family, workers and gender equality. It is essential to combine fiscal policies with active employment policies, combining incentives for the promotion of gender equality and incentives for births. We also propose the differentiation of the family responsible entities and as such certified through the allocation of funds and the use of this condition as a criterion of choice for State suppliers. The third axis of these measures relates to support for families with regard to access to housing, the sustainability factor of social security, the implementation of a family support network and the debate for a family and birth policy. We also propose the creation of a family portal and a plan for its disclosure, so that families have transparent and complete access to the benefits and conditions in which they can access them, depending on their circumstances. We also propose a possible committee to monitor initiatives on family and birth. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an absolutely decisive matter. Now, if it is so decisive and if we all always affirm the urgency of its implementation, we also approve a possible committee so that it can be examined and all parliamentary groups can work on supra-party solutions and as consensual as possible to implement policies in this area. Finally, we propose support in the context of early childhood, school and free time, with the increase in the offer of leisure activities, activities centres, establishments for children and young people without normal family environment, residential homes, establishments for children and young people with disabilities, exempting them from VAT (tax on added value), which is not currently happening. We also propose the flexibility of daycare hours, encouraging their establishment by companies, the promotion of agreements between childcare establishments and employers, a program for children's free time and the consensual review of the school schedule. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS has always been ahead of the agenda in this matter as well. It is time to acknowledge again that this issue is everyone's, because everyone is concerned,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ...and what concerns everyone cannot be the reason for any sectarianism or party quarantine. We understand and agree on a new agenda for the family, removing obstacles to birth. The Portuguese will thank you. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u12	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, the Bureau records the inscriptions of four Mrs. Members — José Soeiro, of the Left Block, João Galamba, of the PS, Rita Rato, of the PCP, and Inês Domingos, of the PSD — to request clarifications and was informed that the honourable Member wishes to respond together to each other. You have the floor, therefore, to request clarification, Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Filipe Anacoreta Correia, in the studies that exist on parental projects in Portugal, there are two data that highlight and are perhaps central to analyze this problem. The first has to do with the difference that really exists between the desired fertility and fertility performed, i.e. the average number of children that people want to have is above the number of children that people actually have. The second essential fact is that, when asked about the main constraints for this discrepancy, in all studies, of different institutions, people point to the same results: unemployment and precariousness come first in constraints for family projects and to perform the desired fertility; secondly, the inadequacy of public support structures arises. That is why, in the light of the data available and the studies we have access to, this debate which the CDS has certainly marked part of a huge void. The proposals brought here do not affect the main problems that prevent people from carrying out their family projects or attack the main obstacles to the desired fertility, i.e. the main obstacles that prevent people from having the children they wish. Mr President, in this debate you have mentioned some proposals from the CDS, and I will already refer to some, but now I want to tell you about the major omissions and absences in these proposals. On family allowance, there is no word in these proposals. There is no proposal on family allowance, which, in fact, the CDS and PSD kept frozen. It took a majority of the left, and the left with influence on the Budget, not only to thaw but also to increase the family allowance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u14	Who froze him? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u15	Today, the CDS doesn't even want to hear about the family allowance. On unemployment and precariousness, there is no proposal, except those that further stimulate the precariousness of the times, presented as flexible, or, then, the precariousness of the labor relations themselves, presented as a kind of smart exploitation of a new world, which reproduces, after all, very old forms of inequality. Since the CDS was the party that placed in the Labour Code the individual hour bank, which disrupts and disrupts people's lives, the CDS was the party that contributed to destroy collective bargaining, with the rules that it introduced in the Labour Code, at the point of view of today an immense blackmail in collective bargaining—for example, workers and supermarket workers are advised of the hours they have to fulfill two or three days earlier, and it is not possible to organize how they will look for their children, besides having imposed on them, in the negotiation that is under way of the collective labour contract, a generous increase of 1, 40 € per month in exchange for the absolute deregulation of the hours— it is clear that, above all, nothing has to say, as if these matters had nothing to do with the issues of birth. Mr. Member, housing does not mean tax benefits for those with more money. The problem of housing is not to be accessible to young couples who want to live in cities and the fact that people are being cleared, as they are being liberalized, with the law of Assumption Cristas, which, in fact, gave the kick-off to the gross problems we have in terms of housing and which is one of the great constraints for people to plan their lives. Who today can rent a T2, to have a room for their children, at the price they are, for example, in a city like Lisbon and with the value of wages paid, on average, in Portugal to younger workers, to precarious workers? Who is able to have a lease that is not a year, that gives stability and allows for the design of the future and life? No one can, but the CDS doesn't say anything about it, which doesn't admire us either. [[CDS-PP protests.]] With regard to the CDS proposals, I wanted to speak of one that radiates the absurdity and another that is a cruelty and an immense inhumanity to pensioners. A proposal that gives rise to the absurdity is that of the CDS to come in 2018 to propose the creation of a possible committee for monitoring initiatives on family and birth, when in 2015 the CDS itself and the PSD in this Parliament — at the time they had a majority — proposed the establishment of the Interdisciplinary Standing Commission for Christmas ( CEPIN ), adopted in April 2015 and currently in operation. We have never heard the CDS worry about whether or not the Commission proposed it is working and what happened. That doesn't matter! It is interesting to propose in 2015 a Permanent Interdisciplinary Specialized Commission for Christmas and then, whenever there is a debate on Christmas, come with a new proposal, now for the creation of a possible committee to follow up initiatives on family and birth. Finally, the proposal for cruelty. The gentlemen. Members propose that pensioners who are attacked with the sustainability factor, in fact more than tripled by the PSD and CDS, may be unapplyed — is the term they use — that factor. In other words, for pensioners with more than two children, the sustainability factor, first, will be reduced to half and then duty-CL will be applied to them. Mrs. Members, this proposal is absurd and cruel, because the sustainability factor should not exist. It is a double unlawful penalty in a context where the age of reform increases every year. The struggle of those who defend pensioners is to end the sustainability factor! That is the struggle of the Left Block, that is the commitment that the Government has made and that has not yet achieved! And that's what needs to be done. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u16	In addition, they said that the problems of sustainability of social security are related to the number of children and forget that the problems of sustainability of social security are the unemployment and emigration that they promoted, tell a couple of elderly people or a person who wants to retire, because he has a long career, which, if he has a child, will have the sustainability factor, but if he has three children, that is, if he is a large family, he will not have it. Members do not know why people have children or not, but they will penalise them with the factor of sustainability, it is cruelness, inhumanity and disrespect for the pensioners whom we do not accept. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u17	Mr João Galamba, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u18	Mr President, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, the CDS once again came up with a debate presenting a set of proposals on the family, birth and demography. The Socialist Party attaches great importance to these issues... [[CDS-PP laughter.]] ...and so it has enrolled them in its Programme and has implemented, since the first year of this legislature, policies that have benefited Portuguese families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The CDS can present a wide range of bills without referring to the volume of employment, precariousness and wages. There is no CDS reference to any of these themes! So apparently, for the CDS, families will have or will not have children, regardless of their working conditions, regardless of whether they have a job or not, regardless of their wages being greater or less, and we understand very well why. It's just that the CDS always likes to introduce itself as a family friend. The Socialist Party disagrees: the CDS is a friend of some families, curiously a minority of Portuguese families with children. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Otherwise, we see: the CDS had no problem when it expelled 500 000 Portuguese from the country, when there were less than 19,000 births, when it voted against the increase in the minimum wage. When the Socialist Party, the PCP, the Bloc and the Greens rejected cuts made by the PSD and CDS in the RSI (social income of insertion), at the value per dependent, the CDS voted against, as when we increased the minimum wage, which today benefits more than 800 000 families, also with children, Mrs. Members of the CDS, because those who have children are not just the numerous families, who put them in private schools,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... who have children are all Portuguese, rich and poor, and it is for these, all, that the Socialist Party has ruled and it is for those, all, that this left majority, who has begun to rule since 2015, has legislated. The gentlemen. Members do not only mention the issue of family allowance. The Socialist Party not only increased the value of family allowance as it extended to the first three years of life the value that existed only for 12 months. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the increase in 1. the escalation of the family allowance, made in this legislation, represents for a family with a child? It represents 1400 € per year, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no measure proposed by the CDS — none! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u19	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u20	... nor before, nor today, which represents an increase of this nature for families positioned in 1. o, 2. o or 3. the steps of the family allowance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We may have all the differences in family support policies, but what is amazing in the CDS is that it presents itself here with a wide set of bills and does not even make an effort to assess whether the measures of this majority had an impact, what impact they had and what improvements can be introduced. Do you agree with the revolution in the family allowance operated by Minister Vieira da Silva in this legislature? Do you think it's insufficient? No, the CDS, purely and simply, doesn't even refer to that. The gentlemen. Members also insist that the changes made in the family quota were more advantageous for Portuguese families. The data are public: with the family quotient, the deductions for families were EUR 500 million; with the abandonment of the family quotient and the transition to fixed deductions, the deductions increased slightly, i.e. from EUR 500 million to EUR 900 million, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! And the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they still talk about the family quotient as if it were a more advantageous measure. It's not! [[PSD protests.]] This measure is not only retroactive as the amendments we have introduced support all families equally and support double: the deductions went from 500 to 900, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! For the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, that is indifferent and nothing has been done. We therefore promote more employment, combating precariousness, raising family allowances, increasing minimum wage, extending preschool to all children up to three years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u21	And the birth rate has increased the peak? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u22	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they could disagree and think that we had not gone far enough, but they do not make a blackout in all this and propose a set of measures that they have not taken before, when they were with the social security folder, or, then, they are worse alternatives than all the fiscal measures or social benefits created by this government and by this majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u23	What about Christmas?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u24	Mr President, the CDS cannot do a portrait that erases the measures that are currently under way and that have already benefited many hundreds of thousands of families with children, much more than any measure that the CDS has proposed to date, in the past or at present. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You do not mention this and the new measures they propose are intended to replace measures presented and implemented by this majority which have a better impact on Portuguese families. Mr President, I ask you a very simple question: for which families do you speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u26	Why do you want the incentives to be for the third child, when Portuguese families today have difficulty having the first and the second? Oh, my God! For which families do you speak, Mr Member, when you want to end a measure that doubled the support in IRS to Portuguese families, passing the deductions from 500 million to 900 million? Oh, my God! What families are you talking about, Mr. Deputies? [[P.S.'s applause.]] The CDS talks to a few families, to a minority of families. The Socialist Party and the Left, which have been in power since 2015, have good news for Portuguese families in employment, wages and social support. That is what the CDS should talk about, but unfortunately, it made a blackout to all these matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u27	To reply, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. João Galamba and Mr. José Soeiro, I am grateful for the questions that have raised me. Mr. João Galamba spoke in black, Mr. José Soeiro spoke in silence in the CDS proposals and I suddenly had a mirage.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u29	Tell me about the payroll!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u30	He believed that he was on another agenda and that we were here discussing proposals by the Deputies João Galamba and José Soeiro. Where are the Left Block and PS proposals to discuss what really matters?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u31	Zero proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u32	They're in practice, they're running!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u33	Listen, Mr. João Galamba! I heard him calmly, so I ask him to listen to me too. Don't get mad! I understand that the absence of arguments leads to a certain despair and exasperation, Mr. Mr. João Galamba — I begin with you and then I will answer Mr. José Soeiro — I have really heard you with quite a surprise, but sometimes here in the House, we have heard people have speeches at different times in history and they seem to be other people. I am sure that the Portuguese will ask today the following: how is it that a matter of greater importance for our country and for which a set of extended proposals has been submitted to discuss what is of interest to all, regardless of tomorrow's elections, has the response to Mr Galamba and José Soeiro's interventions, which were truly regrettable? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u35	Mr. João Galamba,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u36	Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u37	...on the family allowance, what moral authority! Where was Mr. Deputy, when the PS of José Socrates froze the 4th. The family allowance step? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u38	Man, the government is different now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u39	Where was Mr. Deputy? What did you vote at the time? Who is it? Is it, perhaps, someone else? Mr. José Soeiro, where was he when the CDS presented Bill No. 193 / XIII / 1. a, which proposes precisely the strengthening of the family allowance? Oh, my God! The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — imagine! — they voted against, but are not ashamed to come here, with all moral authority, to teach other parties. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u40	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS does not receive lessons from these benches. He doesn't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u41	Well needed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u42	Mr Soeiro, if you would like to talk about housing — by the way, you did not refer to our proposal which is under discussion here — I would like to hear very much, since you probably have already talked a lot about it with your colleague Robles, former director of the City Hall of Lisbon. What I have to say to you, Mr President, about what you have said about the committee of inquiry is that I am sorry, it is an ignorance and I do not want to be putting it in this situation, but you know, of course, that the possible committees will fall. So this Commission has expired and you know that it has expired.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u43	It's not an investigation! It is in operation at the Economic and Social Council ( CES )!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u44	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the Portuguese really want to know is whether the Left Block and the Socialist Party, whenever the CDS brings here proposals on this matter, enter into a party quarantine and isolate themselves. A quarantine of an arrogant majority, who does not listen, who does not wish to discuss,... [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] ... but then, as has already happened, for example, with the proposals for extending parental leave to grandparents, there he will adopt the ideas, pretending to belong to him. No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing here is not vague matters, they are concrete proposals and, in front of them, we are either against or in favour. And, if they do not, of course, it will be your responsibility and you have to take up this responsibility in front of the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u45	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato, from the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u46	Mr President, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, was concerned here on behalf of the CDS about the decline in birth. Mr President, you know that families don't have children or no more children, not because they don't want to, but because they don't have the conditions to do so. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, there is a difference between the desired fertility rate index and the actual fertility rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u47	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u48	But if it is 'exactly', as the honourable Member says, and these matters are all related, then, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand! Do you understand the proposals you have brought here? Even now they say "exactly! , that people have no more children, because they have no conditions, what they have brought to the discussion today, in this House, does not talk about the problem of employment with rights, does not talk about the problem of family income, does not talk about the problem of working hours, does not talk about the problems of precariousness once.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u49	Exactly! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u50	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, calm down, because this has yet to begin!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u51	You guys just got here now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u52	Calm down, because this is still starting! A CDS project that does not talk about wages, that does not talk about precariousness and does not talk about schedules does not surprise us, but it is very revealing of the vision that you have about the challenges that have posed to demographic issues. We understand that it is not possible to have a serious discussion and a rigorous debate on the demographic challenges of the country and on the need to encourage birth without talking about matters essential to the lives of families. That is why it is not possible to make this discussion by passing on to what the CDS has chosen to put aside in this debate: the working conditions and the economic and social conditions of families. We also understand that it is very important to realize that, among all the proposals that bring to the discussion today, objectively and concretely, on matters that respond to labour issues, the CDS presents only two. The first is to invent a prize that already exists, i.e. to reward companies with good practices of equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u53	A prize? Oh, my God! He didn't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u54	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that already exists. Moreover, at the time of the PSD/CDS-PP government they came to the point of awarding companies with at least unacceptable practices on equal rights. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the other proposal on telework is 'whirl in the wet', as if the problems of work in this country are summarized in the telework. As for essential issues, and I am going back to say it, wages, schedules and precariousness, we have zero from the CDS. So we understand that, from the perspective that the CDS has, to award companies because they comply with the law...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u55	Go beyond the law, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u56	Now, how beautiful: companies comply with the law, so let's reward them! And how are we gonna reward them? Not only with a prize but also with tax benefits and with public support, that is, the state will subsidize the patronate to comply with the law—this is the solution presented by the CDS for birth. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very little for a serious and strict discussion on the subject of birth. But it's even a little bit smaller, sirs. Members, because the reality of this country and the workplace is marked by companies that do not comply with the law, which violate fundamental rights of motherhood and paternity, which violate the rights of accompanying children, breastfeeding, breastfeeding, hours that allow the articulation of family and professional life. On this, the CDS has nothing to say and still believes that it must reward companies and give benefits to companies that comply with the law. Mrs. Members of the CDS, from the CFP, we still wanted to address a matter that we do not devalue and that is of the greatest importance. The PCP is against the existence of the sustainability factor and has repeatedly proposed its revocation. The CDS is in favour of the sustainability factor and maintained it, but there is something that is particularly important. It is that one of the proposals under discussion here, well seen, aims to reduce the sustainability factor for pensioners with two or more children. Mrs. Members of the CDS, was it not a Minister of the CDS who decided to apply the sustainability factor illegally to professions that have a special anticipation regime? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u57	Yes, sir! He's sitting back on the CDS bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u58	You haven't revoked him yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u59	He forced miners to work another year at the bottom of the mine, applying the sustainability factor illegally to a specific legal regime in anticipation of the retirement age. Ask Mr Mota Soares if he has often not received the union of the mining industry, to denounce this illegality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u60	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u61	Today, they have the hypocrisy and the political rejection to say that, in these situations, the sustainability factor should be removed. Mrs. Members, the issue of birth and the demographic challenges are very important for the country, but it is a discussion that cannot be held without discussing the essential issues of the need for a policy of income, value for work and development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u62	To request clarification, Mrs Inês Domingos of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, I would like to begin by thanking the CDS for bringing this issue back to Parliament after the debate and the proposals brought here in June by the PSD. I would also like to thank the CDS for having made contributions, after the proposals that the PSD has already presented to the country, both here and in the framework of the State budget, both in the document of the National Strategic Council of the PSD, entitled A Policy for Children. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the continuity given to the work done by the previous Government. [[PS laughter.]] Finally, I should like to thank you for sharing with the PSD the concern about the Portuguese demographic situation, which is one of the most serious and serious structural problems in the country, which the Left and Government parties seem to ignore and do nothing, even today, or here, to solve it. Mrs. Members, the debate on demography is, for the PSD, fundamental, for the importance it has not only for the sustainability of social security, or for the dynamism of our economy, but above all for the decisive impact it has on the well-being of individuals, in their choices for the construction of the family. The PSD's concern about this theme comes from a long distance and already in 2014 we presented a path and a series of proposals, in a report coordinated by Prof. Joaquim Azevedo, which originated in a resolution of this Assembly of the Republic that year. The decision on maternity and paternity is affected by many factors on which the State does not have or should have an impact. What is unacceptable to the PSD is that having children is a factor of inequality and disadvantage in the treatment that the State gives to families, particularly in tax matters. For this reason, the PSD has been defending a number of measures to make tax treatment more equitable between families with and without children or more children. For example, in the last State Budget, we proposed, as the CDS does, that the family quotient should be replaced by IRS, withdrawn by the current government. The family quotient, Mr. João Galamba, and I will carefully explain to understand exactly its objective, allows families with equal income not to be tax discriminated against because they have more children, the situation that your government, Mr. Deputie, currently cannot guarantee. We welcome the initiatives brought by the CDS-PP, but it is important that they be part of a broader strategy. This is what the PSD has defended and implemented, with effective proposals and solutions. In May this year, PSD insisted on further measures for the protection of families and children, including a series of non-tax measures. The CDS today brings contributions that we see with good eyes, but a broader and more ambitious policy is needed. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, will the CDS be willing to add all its proposals, including other parties and civil society, in a decisive, structural and far-reaching step, a step that is truly potentiating family and birth policies? Oh, my God! The committee we propose can and should be the space for us to make this consultation, taking advantage of the proposals that the PSD has already made and the proposals that the CDS brings to us today. Does he not consider that this government, supported by the CFP and the Bloc, demonstrates enormous inconsistency and insensitivity by refusing the most basic right families to build their future as they wish, without therefore being taxed by the State? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u64	He's still defending a patriotic and left-wing government! You'll see!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u65	Mrs. Members, the family, in its various constitutions, is a factor of enormous social cohesion and has revealed a capacity for support and assistance that has contributed decisively to the success of the adjustment programme in Portugal. This family solidarity is not possible if demographic trends continue to dictate the drastic reduction of birth. To reverse this reality, there is a need for an extended political commitment which, unfortunately, has been lacking on the left, as has been demonstrated here today. in this group that does not make proposals and lies below, includes the PS, Mr. João Galamba, who made the cut in the family allowance and wages. It will eventually be that the birth rate, which was recovering until 2015, has stagnated since you entered the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u66	To reply, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u67	Mr President, Mrs Inês Domingos and Mrs Rita Rato, I thank you for your questions. Starting with the intervention of Mrs Inês Domingos, I wanted to say that in good time we heard the intervention she did on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, because she finally entered the debate, entered the agenda, did not limit itself to an attitude of mere partisan, with vain criticisms, of who is closed in an ideological quarantine. in this sense, Mrs Deputy, I want to tell you that we are well aware that we have been working on these matters and, often, have been in agreement with the PSD. When we were in the government, as you mentioned, we introduced some measures that we consider important to be resumed and therefore we propose them and I welcome them because I see that the PSD also keeps them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u68	They just fell in love here, out there they're on the elbows!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u69	Mrs Rita Rato, made a number of statements here, said that the CDS proposals go along with the needs of families, who don't talk about employment... I do not think that you have had the opportunity to read our proposals. I'm going to give you a number of examples. Madam Member, do you think it is relevant for families to have progressive tariffs on water, gas and electricity that penalise them? Is it relevant or not? Mrs Deputy will vote against the proposal that the CDS makes, to introduce justice and fairness in this matter, or do you think it is irrelevant, that perhaps it concerns only one or another Member or another member of the CDS-friendly family? Please, Mrs. Deputy! Open... More: with regard to housing, Mrs Deputies, what do you think of the proposal we are making, so that, in housing policy, whether at the government level or at the level of the government, the allocation of houses takes into account the families and the number of dependents?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u70	What about the evictions in Lisbon? Oh, my God! What about the families that were cleared? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u71	Do you think it's a relevant matter, or do you think it's a meaningless conversation? The PCP is suddenly closed to family housing needs? Mrs Rita Rato said that the CDS does not present any proposals for employment and that what it presents is only to reward companies that comply with the law. Once again, I tell you that you probably did not have the opportunity to read our proposals, where it is clear that the incentives are for companies that implement practices of reconciling personal life with professional life that go beyond the minimum required in the law. Companies that are beyond the law, precisely contrary to what the honourable Member was saying, should be awarded and there should be policies that, at the time of contracting State suppliers, at the time of allocating European or regional funds, in order to support certain projects, favour companies that are friends of workers and workers, which promote reconciliation and the possibility of doing work without having to give up in order to educate their children. That's what the CDS proposes. The CDS would also like the CFP not to close up on a partisan basis, as I have already said, in an ideological quarantine and could approve proposals that are of the greatest importance to families, workers and Portuguese workers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u72	To present draft resolution No 1809 / XIII / 4. a, has the floor to Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For years now, natural and migratory balances have been unfavourable. From years to this part, we have fewer births in Portugal. Portugal is one of the countries with the highest aging rate in the world today. We are therefore faced with a serious, deep and structural drama. A country with less population tends to be a weaker and less cohesive country. A less labour-intensive economy is at risk of being a less competitive and more unequal economy. Social security with fewer contributions and revenues poses a delicate challenge to the sustainability of the social state. An older population without generational renewal puts pressure on our national health system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u74	Mrs. Members, it was with these words that these concerns went up to this rostrum last June on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group. It was because of these concerns that, in this forum, we presented a study on policies for childhood and birth, pointing out three guidelines: consensualizing a policy of incentive to birth; containing, as far as possible, the exit of Portuguese abroad; and defining and implementing a policy of attracting immigrants.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u75	Now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u76	It was with these concerns that, in this forum, we announced the proposal to set up a possible committee to discuss ideas, projects and proposals for combating demographic decline. As we have said, the objective is to do this debate in a broad and participated, serene and rational, national and non-partisan manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u77	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u78	The purpose is to give civil society another opportunity to be heard, to present their contributions, to offer their experience and knowledge. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A policy for children is, for us, a national plan. Incentive to birth is, in this framework, the priority of priorities. And it is a priority that should be translated into new policies. This is a structural problem of society, so it urgently lacks a structural response. Punctually measures can be contributions, which, of course, we do not devalue; however, they are not the solution that needs to be found to fight, once and for all, the demographic winter that afflicts us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u80	over the last few years, and with the strong contribution of the PSD, some improvements have been introduced in the law, of which, from now on, emphasis: reconciliation between professional life and the most facilitated family life; extension of parental leave compulsory of the father; greater flexibility in the enjoyment of parental leave; and reduction of municipal property tax for numerous families. These are indeed advances in aid to families, but the problem is so serious, global and structural that it is not solved by timely measures. We cannot ignore that this path of punctual measures is narrow and short. The new policies must be more comprehensive. This is a matter that goes through the social area, through education, through social security, through labor, through tax, through health, through housing and through the exploitation of the entire national territory. New policies need to include more investment. It is necessary to invest in stronger, more visible and more widespread support for children. Generalizing free access to kindergartens and kindergartens should be an objective to follow. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, investing today is saving tomorrow! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a way we should go together! The higher the degree of consensuality in a policy for birth, the greater the success of it. A supra-party policy that goes beyond the legislature is what the Portuguese claim and what Portugal needs to combat the demographic recession. The approval of the committee proposed by the PSD is a key factor in deepening ideas and strengthening the robustness of the responses. It must be a committee with the contribution of all, from left to right, in a serene debate and without ideological fractures, and with civil society which, with its experience and knowledge, will also make an important contribution. All are called to participate. All must be included and no one must be excluded.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u82	This is therefore for the PSD, the proposal that will create the conditions for the design and development of an integrated policy, a consensualized policy that articulates the multiple dimensions of the demographic problem and will be in force beyond the legislature. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is in this way, with all of us, and through an analysis of measures aimed at the growth of birth, the containment of emigration and the social integration of immigrants that we will have a more cohesive country, a more competitive economy and a more sustainable social security. in a sentence: we will have a Portugal with more future. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u83	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have been challenged here to present the Bloc proposals. I am afraid of them, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia. For example, the CDS continued to say nothing about the increase in family allowance, which was a proposal from the left and approved in the last Budget and will continue until the end of this Legislation. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]] What do you think about the proposal from the Left Block for increased family allowance? More: on housing — one of the problems identified as one of the difficulties of life projecting people, particularly young people and young couples — the Left Block presented a proposal for more public housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u85	Show the proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u86	How did the CDS vote? How did the CDS vote the right of preference to prevent people, families, for example, from being expelled by the business of fidelity?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u87	Was the landlord Robles? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u88	About the moratorium for the evictions... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]] Yes, Mr. Deputies, I know several families from the historical center of Porto that are now being cleared because the law of evictions has been liberalized by a person who is sitting next to you: the name is Deputy Assumption Cristas. We defend a moratorium to suspend evictions, which also involves young people and young couples and not just older people. We have put forward proposals for affordable income, to combat precariousness, to increase wages, to regulate, and not disschedule, working hours. We have put forward a proposal to end the individual hourly bank, unilaterally imposed by the employer. All of this is proposals for friends of families, of birth, of people's life projects. More: we presented here the program of public construction of day care centres.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u89	But why does it have to be public? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u90	Sir, how did the CDS vote? More: do you want to talk about Lisbon? Yes, sir: the Left Block, with the realization of social rights, has already launched in one year, in the city of Lisbon, a contest to be built—in fact, they are being either at this time or have been the subject of competition—seven public daycares. These are the proposals, this is the work of the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u91	What about today? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u92	Another proposal we tabled and discussed in the State Budget was that of the free manuals. In the city of Lisbon, social rights council, there are free manuals up to 12. year. These are the proposals, this is the work of the Left Block! But we also dealt with other matters, such as harassment. Yesterday, we discussed the case of Cristina Tavares, a pregnant worker, a cork company in Santa Maria da Feira, who was dismissed without just cause, claiming the termination of the job. The worker complained to the ACT (Working Conditions Authority), the court gave her reason and said she had to be reinstated. Do you know what happened, sir? The employer, the boss, did not know how many hours in the sun to carry with the same pallets, to do the same meaningless and unproductive work as a form of retaliation. We heard in the Commission yesterday that access to the bathroom was denied to this worker. They gave him a toilet that was not even covered and she had to bring home cloth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u93	Zero Block proposals today!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u94	Why am I talking about that? Because I heard the PCP intervene on this matter, the Left Block asked the Government a question on this matter and even the PS asked the Government a question on this matter! The CDS didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u95	Today, the Block has made zero proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u96	And what the PSD said was that in the Commission we should not only hear the Working Conditions Authority and trade unions, but also the company. Little fellow of the company who has been convicted and who has to come to Parliament to defend himself! We have put forward proposals on employment, income and precariousness on the right to housing. These are the Block proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u97	What about today? Oh, my God! Zero proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u98	We are not surprised that the CDS has nothing about it, because it was precisely the CDS that put the mobility clauses in the Labour Code, which allow a boss to put a worker who is breastfed 40 km from his home. This is possible because of the rules that you have put in the labour law. It is possible that the CDS comes here today with a sort of Christmas fetish, but where was the Christmas fetish of the CDS when it deteriorated working conditions, when it ended with the four holidays, when it dynamiteed the collective hiring? Where was this Christmas fetish when Mrs. Christian Assumption liberalized the rents? Where were these Christmas fetishes? Where was the Christmas fetish of the CDS, when we discussed here the extension of assisted drug procreation for all women? Or does birth count only for some women? Does birth count only for some women? Where was I, sirs? Members, Christmas fetishes and child-friendly fiscal policy, when the CDS and PSD created the overtax in the IRS? Mr President, there are many proposals the Left Block has made and will continue to beat.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u99	Today, zero proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u100	And the CDS proposals certainly do not deserve our support.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u101	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u102	I conclude, Mr. President. For example, when it is said that it is necessary to make a discount on TSU (the single social rate) of companies with 30 % of workers with large families, we are against. When it is said that it is necessary to establish tax benefits for companies paying the daycare not to all workers but to some workers, we are against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u103	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u104	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying only this: when we are talking about, for example, the issue of sustainability factor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we know what the CDS does and what the CDS is worth. The Portuguese know what the CDS does and what Christian Assumption does to families when they are in power, because Portuguese families have already suffered with the CDS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u105	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Defines our Constitution that children have the right to the protection of society and the State, with a view to their full development and that the family also has the right to the protection of society and the State and to the realization of all the conditions that allow the personal realization of its members. To this end, it defines that the State should promote the social and economic independence of family members, promote the creation and ensure access to a national network of day care and other social equipment to support the family and cooperate with parents in the education of children. The reality lived by many families is, unfortunately, very different, and much different for worse. over the years, successive governments have taken measures that disresponsible the state of their social functions, limiting, and often preventing, access to health, education, social protection. Just think of the closure of maternity services—we also remember, in fact, the PSD and CDS government, the desire to close the motherhood Alfredo da Costa —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u107	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u108	...in the thousands of schools of 1. the cycle that closed doors, forcing children to wake up early in the morning to attend a school at several kilometres away from their home, in the cuts in the family allowance, in which PSD and CDS were also protagonists when they were in the government, or in the cuts in the social income of insertion (RSI), in which the response of the CDS for already vulnerable families was to further protect these families and children. The responses to the needs felt by families — parents and children — do not mean withdrawing rights, cutting wages and social benefits, closing public services, as did the CDS and the PSD when they were in government. Yes, it goes through the promotion and enforcement of rights; it goes through the expansion of pre-school, implementing its universality from the age of 3 years, a path of universality that is being made with the intervention and intervention of the CFP; it goes through the freeness of school textbooks, a measure that exists today and of enormous social scope, on the proposal of the CFP and which is so important considering that Portugal is today one of the countries of the European Union where the most direct costs have with education; it goes through the strengthening of the family allowance, because the family allowance is a right of the child and must be taken as such by the State. The proposal and intervention of the CFP allowed the replacement of the 4. the escalation of the family allowance and the reinforcement of its values. It is important to deepen this path, this right of all children. The answer to the needs of families is not to push parents to private responses in day care. Yes, it is through a public response of daycare that covers the needs, which is of quality and accessible to workers and their families; through the strengthening of the public network of child and family support equipment, ensuring access to social equipment to all families, regardless of their economic conditions; through ensuring a free, quality and inclusive public school, in which all children, regardless of their origins, characteristics or their economic and social reality, learn together in the public schools where they live; through strengthening the response of the National Health Service and ensuring, as proposed by the CFP, the access of all children to medical and family nurses and access to mental, visual, oral and nutrition care in primary health care; and through raising the living conditions of families and the fulfilment of their social functions and constitutional responsibilities by the State. They are not privileges, they are the rights of children and parents and therefore inseparable. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u109	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Tavares of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The CDS said, when presenting the initiatives under discussion today, that it does not want left-wing partisan. Party, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? How they can VV. For example, when what they do once again is to try to gain political gains by believing that this is an exclusive concern of the CDS, when we all know here and here several times we recognise, together, the importance of this issue? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] If the CDS does not want to support it, it must begin to look at it, and it is not because the CDS submitted a report in 2007 on this issue that deletes or decreases the role of the other parties before 2007, including the role of the CDS itself. The CDS does not want to support it, but still wants to get the idea that it is the only party that has since been concerned with demographic issues or, in good rigour, if we want, with family policies or with birth. As far as the Socialist Party is concerned, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a long time since and at least since 1995 that its government programmes have included specific measures in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party has no complex approach to this issue; on the contrary, it has history and history and has always contributed, decisively and positively, to the increase in the well-being of Portuguese families. Now the CDS wants to pass the idea to the Portuguese that it's the family friend party. This is no more than one of your banners!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u112	It's just not true. The CDS is not a friend of the families, it is, yes, a friend of only a few families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Actually, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS was not a friend of the families when it voted against the increase in the national minimum wage; the CDS was not a friend of the families when it cut into income and social support; the CDS was not a friend of the families when it promoted policies that forced the emigration of thousands of young Portuguese; the CDS was not a friend of the families when it defended repressive positions to immigration; and the CDS was not a friend of the families when it integrated a government during which levels of child poverty increased. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u113	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u114	But, banners aside, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is certain today: there exists in this House, in this Parliament and throughout Portuguese society a broad and recognized consensus that demography is one of our greatest challenges, but even the greatest, and our country will have to face this same challenge over the coming years. According to the Ageing Report of 2018, published by the European Commission, Portugal should lose 23 % of its population by 2070, falling from 10, 3 million people in 2016 to about 8 million people in 2070. More than 2 million people will be lost. It also tells us that this report by the European Commission, despite the reduction in the number of the population, the fertility rate will rise from the average of 1, 34 children per woman to 1, 59 in 2070, a number still far from sufficient to ensure the generational renewal, i.e. at least two children per woman. Now, this means that at the moment, not even two children per woman are being able to have and not even in 2070 we will be there. And what does the CDS do? The CDS is worried about the third child, when we're not even getting the second child! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the diagnosis is made, the causes are all identified. It is now necessary to analyze what the statistical data tell us and point to solutions to this problem by all of us already recognised. It is now time to know what role the CDS effectively wants to play and whether it really wants to be part of this solution. If the CDS wants to be part of the solution and if it really wants a positive work, we cannot understand why the CDS and, now also, the PSD, knowing that there is currently a working group formed in Parliament where other legislative initiatives are being appreciated, it now presents these proposals, delaying and, above all, devaluing all the parliamentary work that is being done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If the CDS even wants to be part of the solution, we also do not understand why it seems to ignore the work that has been done in this area in the Economic and Social Council. In fact, and by the way, the Economic and Social Council promoted, at the beginning of this month, an interesting conference on precisely the topic The Challenges of Demography: Christmas, where the CDS was not. Certainly because he couldn't, but he wasn't. Ladies and gentlemen. Members tell us many studies in this area that the reversal of this demographic crisis, in the perspective of increasing birth, should go through four dimensions. The first dimension is the reconciliation between family life and professional life, which is one of the greatest challenges of today. This is a dimension that must be highly valued and which is being worked by the Government with the partners of social dialogue following the presentation by the Government last May of the Agenda for Equality in the Labour Market and Enterprises. It is equally important to strengthen the idea that this is an issue that equally affects men and women, as it has been shown that the imbalance in the sharing of family and household responsibilities between men and women contributes decisively to the drop in birth. That is why we argue that the continuation of the stimulus to the sharing of parental leave should be our priority. The second dimension to be taken into account is financial transfer policies for families — social, economic and fiscal support — but also the provision of services and equipment. at this point, we can not fail to point out the increase in family allowance, with special incidence in the first three years of life of children. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I remember that since 2010 the family allowance values have not been updated and it was this Government, this Government of the Socialist Party, which not only updated the amounts, as it has also strengthened them between 12 and 36 months, which rests on 4. The stairwell. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It also refers to the extension from the age of 3 years of the universality of pre-school education and, of course, the great responsibility of the governments of the Socialist Party for the increase in the coverage rate of social equipment networks, which had its greatest expression in the implementation of the PARES. This has been a work of the Government of the Socialist Party and only possible because the Socialist Party is in the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The third dimension to be taken into account here, and ignored by the CDS, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these are housing policies. It is unthinkable to think of measures to encourage birth without, at the same time, also introducing measures to support and protect housing. It is necessary to ensure access to housing for all and the CDS, Mr and Mrs. Members, you have a strong responsibility in this part, because it was during the government that the families saw their right to housing being reached in the most fierce way that there is memory in democracy. Finally, but not least, on the contrary, it is important to mention an essential dimension, to which the CDS continues to ignore and of which it continues to literally sideline: employment policies, increasing the quality of employment and increasing family income. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the fundamental dimension to which the CDS, once again in the mistakes of the past, has not dedicated a line even in its proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the difficulty in finding employment, instability in employment, uncertainty about the future, precariousness, low available income have been the main factors in inhibiting birth numbers in Portugal. These, yes, have been the biggest obstacles to increasing birth rates in our country. It is, above all, because of the instability in employment, lack of confidence in the future, the difficulty in having own housing, that the average age at which women have the first child has increased, looking now at 32 years. And the CDS recognises it, and well, in the explanatory statement of its legislative initiatives presented here today. However, soon thereafter, it is excused to explain and recognize the reasons for this reality. And this reality is known to all of us. The first child is born late, because couples feel that they do not have the necessary family conditions to have children, and when they decide to have the first child, they often do so within the limits of what they consider to be fertile age. Then it's easy to understand the rest. The first child is born late, then the second one is born later, or simply no longer born. But the CDS is really worried about the third child! Open... Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, most of the Portuguese couples are considering having the second child or not. So I ask, once again, how is it possible that the CDS is concerned about the third child if the couples are not even able to have the second. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if we do not want to talk about partisanism, the CDS cannot continue to speak of the last 10 years, or of the last 40 years, claiming that the policies carried out did not have any effect, omitting that, during the four and a half years in which it was government, birth fell more than in the previous 20 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just a matter of asking for responsibilities; what is at stake here is the choice of policies, the choice of how we can reverse this trend of falling birth in our country. And this is where the CDS fails again; this is where the CDS continues to repeat the mistakes of the past; this is where the CDS continues to ignore that only stability at work, only the end of precarious work, only support for housing, only a policy based on increased family income and only confidence in a better future will enable Portuguese families to plan, safely, their future and have the children they want, the children they want. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I have said this today precisely three months ago, on 27 June 2018, and I am going back to reaffirm it: if it were not the action of the Socialist Party Government and if there had not been an reversal of austerity policies carried out during the Government of the previous PSD/CDS majority, Portugal would today be at risk of a greater and irreversible contraction of its active population. This is the truth! The demographic crisis in Portugal has, indeed, economic, social and cultural causes and has worsened with the massive emigration of young people who, due to lack of job opportunities, were literally pushed out of the country by the former PSD/CDS coalition government, further weakening the active population and further exacerbating birth numbers. It is necessary to bring these young people back to Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate is not just about birth, it is about demography and, to speak of demographic challenges, we cannot but refer to immigration as the main factor in the reversal of birth rates. in this demographic « winter », as also happened in France, it is necessary to adopt measures to encourage the establishment in our country of migration flows from other countries. This is an essential and unmistakable element. All studies point to this. And what does the CDS have to say about this? Nothing! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the same ones who, in such a recent past, have cut family incomes, social support, and who have increased unemployment and promoted precariousness are now making a false act of contribution, incuring the same vices and repeating the same mistakes in the past. We must not forget that the austerity policy carried out by the former PSD/CDS Government cost Portugal about 20 000 children a year and seriously aggravated the numbers of child poverty. Moreover, it should be recalled that, according to the 2013 report prepared by the Family and Family Policy Observatory, during the previous government, of which the CDS was part, « there has been no more explicit national family policy». [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is seen that the CDS continues to be unable to realize that policies to promote birth and support families cannot be considered without, together, forecasting the increase in the income available to families and the fight against precarious work, in defense of employment stability, as well as ensuring the existence of efficient and effective social support for all families, and not just for some. There is not a single line that the CDS is dedicated to these problems. It is this dialogue that needs to be enhanced in the search for lasting commitments that can define a serious strategy based on concrete and truly effective measures to promote birth in Portugal. The PS is, as it has always been, available for this dialog. The question we ask is: will the CDS be? Oh, my God! It is because, if you are, you do not realize why you bring back today to the debate and vote measures that have already been put down and that you know you do not have the majority necessary to have them approved. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the demographic challenges go beyond the promotion of birth and must also go beyond this House and the action of the government. The demographic crisis in Portugal is a problem that affects all of us and, indeed, requires an extended consensus. But talking about demography, I remember, is not confined to birth. We cannot forget either immigration or immigration. And would the CDS really want to be part of that consensus? Do you really want to make a serious contribution to this solution? Or do you just want to continue to be the flag carrier of this or that theme, making your usual media number, not then being consequent on solutions? Yes, this is a subject that everyone is concerned with. There is already a working group set up and working in this Assembly of the Republic, and the PS is already working. The CDS will always be welcome. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u115	Mrs Carla Tavares, two Mrs. Members of Parliament to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u116	I am replying together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u117	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u118	Mr President, Mrs Carla Tavares, I do not fully understand the purpose of your speech. If birth was increasing, if the demographic indicators were in their splendor, I would realize their laudatory tone in relation to the policies of the Socialist Party and their accusing tone in relation to the policies of the CDS-PP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u119	However, it is true that since 2005 you have been in government for 10 years...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u120	Ten years!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u121	...and what has been achieved with this has been the fact that birth is at the lowest levels in recent years. So to be serious, in order to be minimally serious, it was necessary to realize that, yes, there is a birth problem and that the public policies that have been carried out so far have not had the desired result.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u122	Your results would be even worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u123	Therefore, in order to make a good commitment to the Portuguese, it would be good at least to bring to mind the proposals of all and look carefully at the CDS proposals. It is because, Mrs Deputies, birth has indeed become a fracturing issue, not because it opens a rift between some, but precisely because it opens a rift between all of us and, in this sense, it seems to us that it had the same sense of urgency as other fracturing issues have had here in Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u124	But it has already been realized that nothing will happen today, we will remain exactly the same, because, despite the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party having presented a motion to the Congress, in May, precisely with this design—this was the word I heard when I was there—and of having gained leadership, then left the design in the drawer. And when the CDS presents proposals, it is already known that you cannot even discuss why they see the CDS and are stained by any original sin!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u125	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u126	No, they're really bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u127	Therefore, it would be important to stop having short sights and understand that it is necessary to have the courage to draw broader, medium- and long-term public policies. And it is not just us who say so, that it is also, as the President of the ESC (Economic and Social Council) said, Prof. Correia de Campos, a member of the Socialist Party, who said it was very important that there were integrated and articulated public policies. This is because, despite the fact that the birth decision is individual, there is certainly room for positive incentives that can be given by these policies. But we already know what they're going to say: it's from the CDS, it's not worth reading, they're out of any ideological prejudice. Or, then, they will say that we have no right or that there are others who think better. All the reasons are invoked to say that the CDS is not a friend of the families, it is only a friend of some families.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u128	He's a friend of 30 or 40 families!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u129	I confess that I don't know very well anymore who the honourable Member would like us to be friends.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u130	They're friends of private colleges!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u131	The question is that we are representatives of the Portuguese people, we are concerned about the problem, we bring concrete questions and we will bring them back as often as necessary, until you realize that you do not have to escape this problem and that there is a risk that we will all disappear until this plenary. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u132	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mrs Susana Lamas of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal is one of the oldest countries in Europe and continues to grow old. We all know that birth rates won't be the same again. However, we also know that the latest indicators show that there is a space to bet on public policies to encourage birth. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still in time to reverse the situation. We are aware that the promotion of birth takes time to take effect. That is why we cannot postpone any longer, it is urgent to find the right policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u134	Salary increase!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u135	It is precisely because it is a problem whose solution will not have immediate effects that requires the effort of all—all of us—to build alternatives that last beyond this legislature. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has proposed the creation of a possible committee calling on everyone to participate. We have already given, and we will continue to make our contributions. over the last years, the PSD has presented and approved several measures that have contributed to introduce legislative changes for the benefit of families. Also recently, and as a starting point, the PSD presented a package of measures to which we have designated Life Policy, which we all know, and it is precisely today 27 months ago that the PSD has brought to this Parliament a debate on policies for childhood and birth. And we brought this debate, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because we consider it important to reverse the current demographic framework. For PSD, the demographic issue is one of the major structural problems of our country. It is a multidimensional problem which therefore requires an integrated and consensualised policy. Having said this, Mrs. Member of the Socialist Party, if, in fact, as you said, the Socialist Party is concerned about the demographic decline, then I ask: why are they afraid to debate seriously, without ideological fractures, such a structural issue?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u137	Why does the Socialist Party prefer to continue in this system of serious, important, certainly, measures that do not resolve the structural issue? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what we know is that, despite the government which has been supporting the measures they are presenting since 2015 in a favourable economic context, the measures they have to show are very little. In addition, unlike the pink scenario that the government has been spreading, emigration continues with very high numbers and, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to solving structural problems, then your balance is zero. [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] Madam Member, is it this time that the Socialist Party, which is concerned about the structural problem, which says that systematic policies are necessary, long-term policies—and we agree, because we know that there is not enough incentive here and there to solve the demographic issue—is it now, I repeat, that the PS will follow this concern that should mobilize all Portuguese? Go or not, sirs. Members of the Socialist Party, will you approve the constitution of this committee? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u138	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Carla Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u139	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the questions put by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa and Mrs Susana Lamas and say that it seems that the Members have not correctly understood what has been said here. First, the PS is not in a broken situation, but on the contrary, it has strengthened the need for consensus and strengthened the consensus in this area. But I also mentioned an important aspect which seems to me that Members still do not want to listen: there is a working group set up in this House where all these issues and several proposals are being appreciated. [[CDS-PP protests.]] To extend this work is to extend a solution to this problem and, ladies and gentlemen, to this problem. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese cannot continue to wait for the decisions taken in the committees which they want to set up in this House. More: I also remember that if all the young people who came back from Portugal during the four and a half years in which they were government, we would have another 17 000 children. In Luxembourg alone, 1,000 Portuguese children are born each year. These are the numbers, ladies and gentlemen, and they are these children, these are the future Portuguese that we are losing every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u140	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens believe that this issue of birth and demography is extremely important, but the proposals presented here today by the CDS have no relevance to the country, nor to Portuguese families. This is the position of the Greens in principle with regard to the set of proposals which have been put forward here and which we have had the opportunity to read and which, moreover, are not innovative, are more of the same, with regard to what the CDS has already been presenting. It is true that the desired fertility rates are far from the actual fertility rates, we have a very worrying demographic picture, but in view of this picture, the CDS completely forgets the fact that family incomes are of great importance so that, for example, young couples can schedule their life, schedule their future and, including, determine whether or not they have children and how many children they have. It is a fundamental issue, because family income is the livelihood of families and it is the way to generate security in their lives and the possibility of planning their lives according to their wish. How can we be talking about this subject and the CDS completely forget the importance of income and not talk about, for example, how fundamental is the question of increasing social support, raising family allowance, the end of cutting wages that the CDS, in co-operation with the PSD, determines for Portuguese families, or how important is it, for example, to defuse the issue of career progression, or how important was the fall in taxes, including the end of the overtax of the IRS imposed by the PSD / CDS government? Finally, in this debate, the CDS ignores all this, as it ignores the importance of combating unemployment, also in this area, the issue of regulating working hours and the need for child support structures, including a public preschooler who responds to the needs of Portuguese families. However, if in a debate on this subject of birth and demography, a party, which presents this set of proposals, ignores these very central issues, what the Greens say is that the CDS proposals are not to be taken seriously, because the core of the issue is completely ignored by the CDS. But we will not take these proposals seriously and this party's speech on these matters also for a few more reasons. It is that we will not forget the sentence determined by the Prime Minister of the PSD / CDS government, therefore the previous government, which clearly told the Portuguese regarding the cuts they had made in wages, that these would never be again what they had been in 2011. Therefore, wage cuts were "thing" to continue. We will not forget that sometimes government members, including then Prime Minister, invited young people to leave the country, to emigrate to seek work elsewhere, because in fact the country did not have the conditions to offer them this, which was fundamental. And there were no conditions, why? Because the policies developed by the PSD and the CDS have triggered unemployment, low wages and precariousness in this country. This was what they had to offer, and now they cry to the heavens about birth and demography and come, for example, to propose benefits for companies to comply with what is already in the law. My question is: why is it that you do not propose something that is crucial, for example, to strengthen the human resources of the Act so that it can in fact properly monitor companies that do not comply with the law?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u142	Read the proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u143	Let me remind you, Mr President, that in your government 200 inspectors have been missing. Therefore, this structure has been extraordinarily weakened. In short, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will not take these CDS proposals seriously. The CDS is working more for your image, for photography than itself to solve the country's problems. To solve the problems of the country, here we are, The Greens, pulling the government to the one who is the right way. [[CDS-PP protests and laughs.]] It is enough to see the many proposals that we have also put forward in this area in successive State budgets and that we will certainly also have a chance to strengthen the next one. As for the simple proposal of the PSD for this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u144	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u145	I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD is now proposing nothing more in this Parliament than the creation of committees. There is a problem in the country, there is a committee ; there is another problem in the country, there is another committee. We have no other PSD answers! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u146	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on demographic challenges is of the most fundamental importance for our country. That is why the PSD has put this debate on the political agenda for several years. It is that we do not resign with a country that loses, decades after, hundreds of thousands of inhabitants; a country that continues not to create opportunities for its most qualified young people here to develop their life projects; a country that ignores the fundamental importance of good social integration of their immigrants. We therefore welcome the CDS-PP initiative to join the PSD in bringing this debate to Parliament, bringing proposals that go against what the PSD has defended over the past few years, whether it proposes a more family friendly IMI, as the PSD defended in a report coordinated by Professor Joaquim Azevedo in 2014, whether it is moving forward with the proposal to increase the duration of the parental leave, as the PSD presented in a document of the National Strategic Council, very recently. This is indeed, as everyone has said, a national plan and which calls on all parties. For this reason, the PSD proposed the establishment of a possible committee where integrated public policy responses can be found, in order to counter the demographic decline. If the PSD proposals are public, as is the example of the proposal to ensure the free frequency of children's establishments up to the age of 6, the time has come for all parties to participate in this discussion, which is essential for the future of our country. First of all, it is a priority to bet on policies to promote birth through the protection of motherhood and the development of childhood education, policies that should enable the reconciliation between family life and professional life, ensuring that gender equality is also promoted by strengthening the sharing of parental leave between parents. To reverse the demographic decline is also to look at emigration, not stigmatizing it but also not accepting that, year after year, they continue to leave our country nearly 100,000 people. Unfortunately, in three years of government management, what the government proposes as a magic solution is a 50% discount on IRS (tax on income of natural persons) for Portuguese people who emigrated between 2011 and 2015, as if emigration had started in 2011 and ended in 2015. And what now serves them a 50% discount on IRS if what they're going to earn doesn't even get to pay IRS? This is a demagogic, electoralist, ineffective and intellectually dishonest measure. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u148	Demagogic, because it insinuates that emigration began and ended with the previous government; electoralist, because it only arrives in the year of elections; and ineffective, because alone, it will not bring any Portuguese back. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u149	And it is also intellectually dishonest because it continues to refer to the previous government a structural problem in Portuguese society. A country that wants to combat the problem of the "demographic winter" has to look at the new generations and its aspiration to be able to constitute its family, has to look at an eternally postponed generation, which cannot start its life project. If this generation can't even leave the parents' home, how are you going to think of being a family? There are therefore several questions to be asked. What did the government do for the new generations in three years? What freedom, what autonomy did you provide them with in creating their future? What has the government done about young leases, besides announcing a new generation of policies for housing that forgets the new generations?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u150	With the deductions, it tripled!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u151	What has the government done to combat the precarious work of the younger people? He proposed the six-month extension of the experimental period, making them more vulnerable on the labour market. What has the government done, from a fiscal point of view, to support young families who want to have children? It's over with the family quotient. [[PS protests.]] The demographic decline is indeed a national design and for it all parties and all generations are called, but it is essential that we never forget that this country is also for young people. If there is a message that results from this debate is that all parties consider that the promotion of policies friendly to birth, the need to combat 'demographic winter', is a national design, is a priority. If we agree on this point, then there is no reason not to make the PSD proposal possible for the establishment of a committee. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u152	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no one else registered. If so, there will be no more inscriptions, except for the inscription that corresponds to the closure. Let us be clear about that. [[Pause.]] Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos asked for the floor for an intervention. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate it is clear that the issue of persistent low births in our country concerns us all, as it is also clear that the challenge of birth is central to the Government's programme and action and to the measures taken by this majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, at the conclusion of this debate, the central point is not whether or not there is consensus or whether there is someone more concerned than anyone else, that is what adds the proposals of the PSD and the CDS. The PSD and the CDS speak of courageous policies, integrated policies, weighted policies, and the problem, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are reading your proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u155	And about courageous, integrated and thoughtful policies, you start by presenting committees that already exist: one, which was created by you in the previous Government, is in the Economic and Social Council ( CES ) and is working on this matter; another, which is working on issues of parenthood, where all these projects fit, is chaired by Mrs Clara Marques Mendes. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they are putting forward proposals to do what is being done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u156	No, no! One thing has nothing to do with the other!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u157	But they also present proposals similar to those they presented in the May 2016 debate, which were plummeted at that time and which they know will be plummeted today. The family quotient is an example of these. We did not plunge the family quotient by whistling, we plunged because the measure we approved is more fair and supports more families.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u159	500 to 900!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u160	But your proposals do not only have to be wrong what they present, they also have to be wrong what they do not.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u161	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u162	The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS still have, in the last intervention, the opportunity to report the family allowance and the changes that have been made. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u164	The conclusion of the international reports on policies, compared with the good policies of other countries, is that support for early childhood is central. What did the government do about the increase in family allowance? Increased family allowance in the first three years of age of children,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u166	... extended the family allowance to 4. the step and increased the family allowance according to the number of children. Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, what is this but support for families with children? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u167	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u168	I will finish Mr. President. But your proposals also ignore what families, the people we want policies to work for, say it is important. If they are at the 2013 fertility survey, families are very clear: in the decision to have children, the most important has to do with income and employment. On these two dimensions, what do your proposals say? Zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u169	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u170	I'll finish. And neither can they be taken seriously when they ignore that in fact in the four and a half years in which they were government, birth has fallen more than in the previous 20 years. It's true! And the problem is that, as a percentage accumulated, the fall was greater than in the previous 20 years... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...and it's not just the responsibility of your policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u171	Madam Member, the problem is that you don't have time to go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u172	We must not adopt the wrong policies again; these are the same wrong policies that you bring to this debate today and that is why they will not be approved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u173	Within the time available, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate we have learned that the solutions that the CDS has to deal with the problem of birth and demography in our country, as for everything, are tax “bulles”. Here is the proposal for a tax “barla” for companies — see! — to comply with what is in the law. Here is a proposal for a tax ruling for families. But let us ask what families are covered, because more than 40% of Portuguese families, due to low incomes, no longer pay IRS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u175	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u176	So what are you proposing here, then, covers what families? We're talking about families with higher incomes. These are the proposals that the CDS brings to the Assembly of the Republic. We also note the following: of the proposals that the CDS brings, there is not one, one, that responds to concrete problems for families to take the option of having more children. None of them beautifies a single interest of the patronate. The proposals they bring here do not jeopardise the interests of the economic groups and employers, as, indeed, in relation to the day care centres, it is clear from the proposals they bring. Do the workers have a scheduled time? Oh, my God! It can't be. Do they have a schedule that allows them to monitor their children, their development, their growth? Oh, my God! It can't be. But they've got day caretakers open until midnight or the weekend, so there's no problem! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u177	The working hours have been regulated for 40 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u178	You want to conclude, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u179	Workers can continue to be exploited and their children do not have the right time with their families nor do they have the time for their integrated development. Mr President, I shall conclude by saying what are the central issues for families to have no children. If the families don't have the children they want is not because they don't want it, it's because they can't. This is not a problem for each family, it is a problem for the country, because the conditions for families to make this decision are not created.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u180	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u181	We are talking here about combating precariousness, the need to ensure jobs with rights, the need to value wages, respect for maternity and paternity rights, the existence of public child support services — public services, we are not talking about private services. These, yes, are the necessary measures, but for this the CDS does not bring one — I repeat, one! — proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u182	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, today, the PSD would no longer make any intervention at this level, but after the intervention of the Socialist Party, by Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, and given the intellectual dishonesty,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u184	... it is essential that you use the word to restore the truth. Madam Member, is the PSD proposing a committee that already exists? Oh, my God! Madam Member, what exists, and I am very pleased to preside over it, is a committee with point-to-point measures, which is precisely the opposite of what the PSD has proposed here, saying that what exists is positive but that it is necessary to have an integrated and systematic policy. That's what the PSD proposed. Then, Mrs Deputies, if everything is so good, so good, so good, if what the Socialist Party and the Government supported by this management are doing so well, then I ask you, Mrs Deputies: why does emigration, at the end of three years, remain practically the same? [[All right!]] [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u185	Why did births stagnate? Why did birth stand?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u186	Dishonesty is being asking me questions when you know I don't have time to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u187	Mrs. Deputy, don't throw sand in the eyes of the Portuguese. More: I ask you something else, Mrs. Member : who frozen the family allowance in 2010? [[PS protests.]] It was the Socialist Government and the honourable Member was sitting here to support it! It's good to remember this, Your Honor. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u188	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u189	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u190	Mr. President, I've been accused of intellectual dishonesty and I'd like to have a chance... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u191	If it's for the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a problem to be accused of intellectual dishonesty. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u192	Is Mrs. Deputy asking for the word to defend the honour?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u193	If that's the only way of power...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u194	I'm not the one who suggests, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u195	So, yes, Mr. President. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u196	As a rule, the defences of honor are at the end of the debate. I should like to ask the CDS, which closes the debate, and I am addressing in particular Mr Nuno Magalhães, if it is not opposed to the exercise of the defence of honour being done at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u197	Mr. President, we are not opposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u198	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u199	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I'm going to repeat again what I said to the honourable Member. What I said was that there is already within the framework of... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u200	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is a separate matter, another thing is a noise that does not allow the speaker to pronounce himself. Please, Your Honor. I ask for the understanding of the other Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u201	Mr President, I understand that you do not want to hear what I am going to say next, because you withdraw the fairness of what you have said about me, but in any case you will have to listen. The committee within the Economic and Social Council, a special committee on births, was set up in a proposal of yours in the previous Parliament to study, monitor and propose measures in the context of births.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u202	They know there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u203	With regard to the working group on parenthood, which exists in this Parliament, coordinated by the honourable Member, I said that I was the right working group so that work on any proposals for birth could also be done. That was strictly what I said, Mrs Deputies, as much as it would cost you to recognize. Your proposal regarding the establishment of another committee may not be seen, given what exists, either by your hand or by the hand of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u204	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, would you like to explain?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u205	Explanations and time!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u206	Of course, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u207	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u208	Mr President, to make it clear, she refers to a committee specializing in the context of permanent consultation which has nothing to do with the committee which is proposed here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u209	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u210	The possible committee proposed here is work to be done by politicians, representatives of the people, here in the Assembly of the Republic and outside, with civil society, all together. [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] Madam Member, I insist on what you said earlier and that is why I asked for the floor. Mrs. Deputy, don't try to fool me! The working group of parenthood that currently exists is to deal with timely measures... [[Protests by PS Deputies Sonia Fertuzinhos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u211	They're as punctual as all the others!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u212	I haven't read the draft resolution!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u213	In the end, I shall have the pleasure of distributing my speech and our draft resolution, because the honourable Member has not strictly understood anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u214	No need, I heard!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u215	Once it's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u216	More: I will even tell you that I think you have noticed, but the PS insists not to discuss such an important matter as this, a national design that should unite us all and not distance us. That is why the honourable Member realizes that she did not understand what we wanted to say, but she did understand very well. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u217	Since the marking of this point was the responsibility of the CDS, the final intervention is up to you. in this sense, I give the floor to Mrs. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate there are a few points that should be emphasized. I would like to go back to the beginning, because it seems to me that although everyone is concerned about this subject, and even though all parties, without exception, consider very important the subject of demographic decline, of the decline in birth, the fact is that there are some points on which I do not think there is sufficient study or consensus to be able to work on these areas. The first note I wanted to leave here today is that this is a problem not only of Portugal but of all the Western world, and in particular of Europe. Secondly, if this was a purely economic problem it certainly was not a problem in Europe, because there are other parts of the world where you do not live as well as in Europe and where this is not a problem. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u219	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u220	Therefore, the reasons are much more fundamental than what some people want to believe when they say they are better wages or the non-precautionary that alone solve this issue. Don't! in other places of the globe there are much lower wages, precariousness is much greater and birth is not a matter. There are, therefore, other matters to be dealt with in this area. The third point, which is very important to highlight, is that there is a solution. There are European countries that have lived for decades in serious low birth rates and which, with appropriate policies, have managed to reverse this low birth rate. There is also another point to point out, and that seems to me to have consensus. Portugal does not need Christmas policies, it does not need to convince anyone to have children, nor does the CDS want. We simply want to remove the obstacles that families who have no children and would like to have children, but would like to have more children. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u221	It is with this background that the issue has to be addressed. What do other countries teach us? We are taught that concerted policies are needed in various areas and stability in these policies. That is why when I hear some benches, particularly the Socialist Party, drawing on the measures of the previous Government, it would have been more sensible and more adjusted to let the measures of the previous Government function to then evaluate, weigh and perhaps conclude that they had their effectiveness. That was not your option, but our role, because we are convinced and because the international experience thus shows us, is to bring back these issues. And, yes, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, we will bring one, two, three, four times, because we are convinced that these are the best measures. You know, Mrs. Member, the persistence of the CDS has an advantage. It is that when we started talking about this in 2007 we were almost alone and made a very deep report on these issues. Next, we began to see the other parties talking about this matter, and I am glad they came to talk about it. Moreover, I even remember a famous Eng.o José Socrates baby check, which never came out of paper but was quite announced. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Deputies João Galamba and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] After that, the level has always been increasing. The Socialist Party disagrees with the family quotient and has eliminated it. In our perspective, bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u222	At least say what's really going on!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u223	But the truth is, you replaced him for something else. I repeat: the truth is that you replaced him for something else. In our perspective, worse. Why? Because we continue to believe that those who have an income and have to use only for themselves or for more than one person are different from those who have the same income and have to divide by the number of people, descendants or ascendants, in their office, who are in that house, in that family aggregate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u224	It's a matter of accounts!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u225	Tax sensitivity must be right there at the beginning. Are you going to say-CL to me: is this a matter of approach? Is that a matter of substance? It's a matter of substance! I understand that this is not your option, but it is ours and we will continue to defend it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u226	How can you say that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u227	As we stand for water, light, gas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u228	We still remember that they wanted to privatize the eagle!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u229	...because, obviously, a family with one, two or three children consume more water, more light, more gas than another that has no children, being penalized by going to the upper ladder. We believe that we cannot only intervene at one point, we need to intervene at several points. That is why, in 2016, in this House, we presented 25 proposals, some symbolic, others in the background, to help reverse the decline in birth. They've all been down! [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] After that, some that we were presenting, on time, were supported. Moreover, I have already heard the Prime Minister think very well of the idea of grandparents having the possibility of enjoying some parental leave. I'm glad you came to that conclusion. The CDS presented this proposal here and is, in the specialty, being discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u231	We therefore know that resilience is necessary, that we must persist and resist and, for 20 that are plummeted, perhaps, there is one that then—let's know! — even if you try to take your authorship, it may end up being passed and being discussed here. I regret that this is a time when the opportunity is lost to give effect to the proclamational speeches. When we heard all the parties say that birth is very important, what I would expect from all the parliamentary groups, from the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was that they said something very simple: in 23 proposals, we agree with some and disagree with others. Certainly if they were, with exemption, looking at all the proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u232	We saw one at a time! They're all wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u233	... there would be one or the other which, in the light of the various criteria of the different parties, would be analyzed in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u235	But what are we watching? A radical lead of all measures! [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] This is no way to make politics seriously, this is no way to build consensus, this is no way to work for a national plan that is to reverse the fall of birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u237	Therefore, if that is your position, it is certainly not that of the CDS. It's never been, anyway. We will continue to bring these proposals, like others, knowing that, yes, we need to deal with taxation, reconciliation of work-family and look at work in the modern world. If it is true that the law is full of rights—and good! — it is also true that the world of the work of the digital age offers us opportunities that we should take advantage of for a better reconciliation between work and the family. So when we talk about telework or when we talk about our smart working proposal,... [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] ... what I would expect was that the benches would say 'yes, ma'am, let's look at this, let's think about these aspects...' — in fact, it is a recommendation for the matter to be seen in social consultation — '...and we will look for the way in the 21st century, in a work of the digital age, to get people to work at home, in the place of work at a distance, and thus to better reconcile their family life with their professional life'.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u238	All right! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u239	I also understand, and well, that there are different perspectives on how to have first childhood support equipment, but this, my gentlemen, is very simple: or we think it has to be the state to do everything, and it will take many years until we have kindergartens and kindergartens to serve the entire population—and I remember that there are country councils with 30% coverage—or we understand that it is possible to look at installed capacity, it is possible to contract and we can have solutions in the short term. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] The Left Block wants one perspective, we want another, but certainly they deserve to be analyzed and discussed and that is what we don't see the ability to do in this House. We also know that licenses that promote effective sharing of responsibilities between parents are an important tool and, therefore, we understand that they should be extended, when there is an effective sharing of joy between father and mother,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u241	...because the care of children is not of mothers, it is of both, and it is important that this is always stressed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u243	In this case too, we do not understand why this measure is not approved, why it is not discussed in the specialty. What is the ideological prejudice in relation to this measure in concrete.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u244	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u245	I would just like to tell you, in relation to all these points and to companies, we do not talk about the companies that meet, because they all have to comply and all have to be monitored, that we want to promote and give visibility to those who, for example and for good practice, go beyond the law and practice family friendly policies, far beyond what the law currently requires them. This is also a way of having a business fabric that effectively respects families, who seek a better reconciliation of work-family, who values children, the children of their workers, their employees, and we want this to be exalted in the eyes of society as a whole. That's what we're talking about! It is that things are not done against companies or the private sector, they are motivated, calling them for this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u247	...and helping them to be an active partner, so that we can all live better. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] I wanted to finish, without delay, saying, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that there is one more missed opportunity in this Parliament, one more opportunity for us to emphasize that the government has one word but not the honour, because it has a different action. Being able to take on a national plan is also able to dialogue with all political forces in the House of Democracy, which is Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u248	To reject, I say, ultimately, all the CDS proposals — it is not one or two of which depart, are all the CDS proposals, as announced here — that is not knowing how to live in democracy, it is not knowing how to dialogue, it is not knowing how to build, it is not knowing how to work for consensus. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u249	for our part, I regret but we presented in 2016, in 2017, now in 2018, and we will continue to present, because we are absolutely convinced that this is the biggest structural challenge for our country. on our part, you know what they count, always with a lot of action and always signaling those who are on the side of the solutions. In fact, we have the PSD to want to contribute to these solutions while all others, the united left, talk about other issues, other subjects, but specific policies for birth, as we see in other countries, do not want to talk. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Margarida Balseiro Lopes.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u250	I want to inform the House that the PSD gave three times two minutes to Mrs. Deputy Assumption Cristas, therefore, 6 minutes overall, and that is why the intervention extended beyond the time it was intended for the CDS. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as planned, we will enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. In the meantime, Mr Duarte Pacheco will make some announcements. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bill No. 999 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Change the Penal Code, preventing excessive confinement of pets, which falls to 1. the Commission, and draft resolutions Nos 1820 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — In defense of the postal public service in the Evora district, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1821 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — proposes the adequacy of the collection time by the CTT in Évora of printed publications to defend the activity of the local and regional press, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1822 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Establish the National Day of Global Sustainable Development, which falls to 11. the Commission, 1823 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — At the end of the demolition of dwellings on the barrier islands of Ria Formosa, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1824 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government establish a proportional limit for wage disparity within each organisation, which falls to 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u252	I would ask the services to present us with the results of the quorum for the purpose of voting. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 203 presences, to which are added those of Deputies Carlos Peixoto, Luís Leite Ramos and Margarida Balsairo Lopes, PSD, Elza Pais, João Galamba, Nuno Sá and Sergio Sousa Pinto, PS, José Manuel Pureza, BE, Patrícia Fonseca, Pedro Mota Soares and Vânia Dias da Silva, CDS-PP, making 214 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to vote. We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 986 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to the code of value added tax, approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December, in order to exempt from VAT all entities promoting day care, kindergartens, homes, among others irrespective of their legal nature. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 987 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to Decree-Law No 72 / 2017, of 21 June, in order to promote a bonus to companies that follow practices friendly to the reconciliation of work with family life, gender equality and birth. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 988 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax approved by Decree-Law No 287/2003 of 12 November 2003 in order to restore the reduction of the municipal tax rate on buildings of taxable persons dependent on a percentage of the value of the property. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 989 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code increases the duration of the initial parental leave for 210 days and the duration of the initial parental leave from the third child. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 990 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Benefits within IRC to companies that promote family responsible behaviour. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 991 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Second amendment to Law No 4 / 2007 of 16 January to reduce or remove the sustainability factor to pensioners with two or more children. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 992 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Change the IRS Code in order to restore and strengthen the family quotient. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall generally vote for draft resolution No 1800 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a possible committee for monitoring initiatives on family and birth. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention of the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1801 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — For an integrated family recovery and birth policy. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1809 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Establishment of a possible parliamentary committee for analysis and discussion of ideas, projects and proposals for combating demographic decline. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention of the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u253	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u254	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u255	Mr President, I would like to announce that I have tabled a statement of vote on the two draft resolutions on the possible committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-27.u256	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We've reached the end of our agenda today. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda: general consideration of the Proposal for a Law No 132 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt the new Industrial Property Code, transposing Directives ( EU ) 2015 / 2436 and ( EU ) 2016 / 943 ; Overall assessment of the Bill No 138 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime for the access and exercise of insurance and reinsurance activity and the procedural regime applicable to special crimes of the insurance sector and pension funds and counter-ordinations the processing of which is the responsibility of the Insurance Supervisor and Pension Funds Authority, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 97 ; general assessment of the Proposal for Law No 139 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Anti-Terrorism Act by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 541 ; general assessment of draft Law No 979 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Determines the transparency of salaries and proposes the establishment of reference salary leques as a mechanism for combating wage inequality; joint assessment, in general, of Resolution Projects Nos 1318 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of grants and support for paralympic athletes equal to the Olympic athletes, 1795 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government create a scheme that allows the pairing of paralympic athletes to Olympic athletes with regard to the allocation of support and scholarships and 1797 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the comparison between Olympic and Paralympic athletes at levels two and three; joint assessment, in general, of draft Law No 956 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Promotion and development of ecotourism and draft resolution No 1695 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government evaluate the possibility of creating mechanisms to encourage the implementation of Astrotourism projects in the regions of the interior of Portugal. At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. The session is over. [[It was 17 hours and 22 minutes.]]
