ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. First of all, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to give us an account of the file. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the following legislative initiatives: Proposal for a Law No 171 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Health Bases Act, which goes down to 9. the Commission ; Draft Law No 1049 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Visa the introduction of a logo that differentiates biodegradable plastics from conventional plastics, which falls to 11. Commission ; Draft resolution No 1883 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare a scientific study on the impacts of microplastics on the environment, food chain and human health, which falls to 7. Commission ; Draft resolution No 1884 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers, from 21 December 2018 to 8 January 2019, and extension of the investigation period for more than 60 days ; and Parliamentary Assessment No 91 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Decree-Law No 96 / 2018 of 23 November, which revises the model for the management of the provision of time bands and recommending facilitating times at national airports, amending Decree-Law No 109 / 2008 of 26 June. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I also give two opinions from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. The first opinion concerns the suspension of the mandate in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( b ). the Statute of Deputies of Mr. Duarte Marques ( PSD ), a electoral circle of Santarém, being replaced by Mr. João Manuel Moura Rodrigues, between 28 December 2018 and 10 February 2019, including being in the sense of suspension and the replacement in question to be admitted, since they meet the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary, to take note of the second opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u4	The second opinion refers to the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Articles 7. it's 9. the Statute of Deputies, by Mrs Rosa Maria Bastos Albernaz ( PS ), Electoral Circle of Aveiro, and it is in the sense that it meets the legal requirements, and must be replaced by Antonio Alves Cardoso, with effect from 19 December 2018, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u5	Mrs. Members, before submitting the opinion to the opinion, I would like to stress that Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz was almost 30 years old in the Assembly of the Republic, and was also Secretary of the Bureau. What we all certainly wish for is the greatest personal happiness and the continuation of their involvement in the civic causes for which he has been beaten throughout his life. [[General applause.]] The opinion is therefore appreciated. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, the first item on the agenda is political statements. To this end, first of all, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The health of Portuguese is not a priority for this united Left Government. The CDS has denounced it many times, but it is the Portuguese who resort to the services of the SNS (National Health Service) and the professionals who work in it who often tell us that "this is much worse than in the time of the troika". A troika brought by a disastrous socialist government, which left the country in bankruptcy and heavy collective sacrifices. in these more than three years of socialist governance, with the support of BE, PCP and Greens, access to health has become much worse: waiting lists for consultation and surgery have increased, maximum response times are largely exceeded—and could give numerous examples from north to south of the country. The reform of primary health care has had the worst evolution ever and hospitals are children of the captivity of Centeno, unable to hire the missing human resources and replace obsolete and damaged equipment. Chronic patients of all ages and their families are desperate for early support and already know that the status of the caregiver, which the CDS has defended in this House since 2016, is also not a priority for the Government of António Costa. Debts and late payments have increased, investments in the SNS have been lower than during the troika period and low transfers to the SNS have not minimized the problem of their underfinancing. And, year after year, BE, The Greens and PCP approve Budgets that leave public health services at risk and then, on a stage no longer credible, run to the demonstrations where professionals and people with problems generated by these same policies and approvals. What do you intend to do? How do you still want to be taken seriously? [[CDS-PP applause.]] And when we talk about real health problems, what do we hear of this government? There come promises and more promises, the already famous contract mantra, in numbers that may vary depending on the day and the sources. “There have been more than 8000” — they always say! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to be transparent and say that the disastrous way of passing from 40 hours to 35 hours requires higher contracts; we need to say that if these numbers include renewals of human resources that leave the SNS; we need to say that there are thousands of hours in debt to health professionals; we need to say that professionals, certainly not because of ingratitude or cruelty, continue to announce strikes, resigning themselves and saying that they do not trust this government, after so-called negotiating processes that have been dragged about three years ago, without any concrete progress. What we have, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a Prime Minister who, in the face of people's problems, speaks numbers and devalues reality, shows social insensitivity and inability to negotiate and decide; a Prime Minister who promises, promises, who comes here to Parliament to make announcements and say "now it is" and then pushes the belly. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And it was of no use to try to throw a smoke curtain on the serious health situation, driving out the former Minister of Health, because with the new government team did not change policies, did not change this inoperance, did not change priorities and the serious problems are well in view. After all, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this Minister «is also Centeno », because austerity, contrary to what they have propagated, has not ended, because this Government imposes maximum taxes, with minimum public services, in health and in other areas, services to be demolished and to which Portuguese have a very damaged access. We have a government that does not negotiate, a government that does not decide, a government that does not govern. Do we have a Prime Minister and a government on strike to government? [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the SNS is very ill, promotes inequity in access to health care, is inefficient and makes Portuguese families spend more and more of their purse on health expenses. The professionals are exhausted and unhappy—still this morning we were able to prove it at Dona Estefânia Hospital—and, although they show serenity and professional awareness, they do not see the solutions promised. It is of no use to claim that the SNS is a priority, which is perhaps more of one's heritage than others, because the SNS is everyone's and a conquest of democracy. The CDS views it as a desirable pillar of social cohesion and will continue to defend a health service that guarantees access to health for all Portuguese people,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... a SNS that is not a hostage of ideological prejudices and that includes new models of management that are more efficient and results-based, a more modern and prepared SNS for the challenges of innovation, increasing chronic diseases and aging, a SNS for the 21st century. Health is not even a priority for this government, which has now decided to announce, hastily, a new Health Bases Act, in a minimalist version, censored and condensed—but on this we will talk more about it shortly. It was, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one more error in governance, as if the others were not enough. But, let us not forget, the current serious problems of the SNS do not immediately resolve with a new basic law, although we recognize that it is a necessity for the modernization of the Portuguese health service. Precipitation, inflexibility and demagogy in nothing will benefit from a review that is thought and reflected. In fact, the CDS will contribute, in due course, with its proposals, to a matter as important as this one, since, in fact, the most recent version is omitted, poor and clearly worse than the previous one.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u7	Mrs. Deputy, you've far exceeded the time you had. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this government of Antonio Costa and Mário Centeno, supported by the united Left, promises but does not resolve, announces but does not.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u9	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u10	The CDS will be attentive and will require concrete responses from the government and from the banks that support it and changes in the new cycle that it is forecast. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u11	Mrs Deputy, the Bureau has registered five Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u12	Mr President, first of all, I reply to a set of three Mrs. Members and then a set of two.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u13	So, to ask for clarification, you have the floor, first of all, Mr José António Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u14	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, the governance of the left in the area of health began to be an illusion and now, almost at the end of the legislature, we can already say that there is no fraud. Earlier yesterday, we heard Dr. Adalberto Campos Fernandes say — stop! — lack of investment in the National Health Service. There's a need for discharge! Two months ago, when he was Minister of Health, he said that the government's investment in the National Health Service was more than enough. But the truth is that in the first two full years of social-communist governance, the health sector recorded a cut in investment expenditure of 26 % compared to 2015. The PSD has been reporting for years the degradation that the National Health Service is suffering at the hands of this government: it is the stagnation of the reforms of primary hospital health care that are discontinued and palliative; it is the overcrowded emergencies that remember war scenarios, as it still reported for months ago the Medical Order staff; it is the waiting times for months and years for hospital consultations; it is the waiting lists for operations that do not stop increasing; it is the complaints of the users that are increasing, being many of them treated without any dignity; it is the breakdowns in medical emergency services; it is the strikes of the health professionals and the dismissals of hospital officials who are already desperate with the total incompetence of the government in solving the problems that it has created or has allowed to worsen. If the former Minister of Health had lost political credibility, the current Minister seems to follow her steps, and she is only two months ago in office. in these two months, it was unable to cope with the causes that led to the strike of nurses that had already caused the postponement of more than 7000 surgeries. instead, he preferred to insult an entire class to then be forced to apologize publicly.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u15	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u16	Now, he decided to "throw sand for the eyes of the Portuguese", making the Government approve a proposal for a basic health law that brings the Socialist Party to the extreme-left statisticizing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u17	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u18	Mr President, I am only asking Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto: how do you think the health service will be at the end of next year? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u19	You also have the floor to ask for clarifications by Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u20	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, recently when the honourable Member here is speaking on health, we have been accustomed to attempts to block the enormous responsibilities that the CDS has in this sector and particularly in the SNS. Mrs. Deputy said that the National Health Service has never been as bad as it is now. I will stir up your memory because you want to forget the four years of PSD/CDS-PP government with regard to health. Madam Member, professionals and users do not forget that they have increased the number of hours of work, which has passed from 35 hours to 40 hours, and they also know that the CDS voted against, when the PCP here presented the 35 hours replacement proposal. Mrs Deputy is very concerned about the demotivation and exit of health professionals, but she forgets that the CDS-PP and PSD have enormous responsibilities in this. He forgot to say that the PSD and the Prime Minister then told young doctors, and all young people, to emigrate, to leave their comfort zone.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u21	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u22	That was your huge responsibility. We have heard here, in the Assembly of the Republic, the different leaders, at the time, of the IPOs and other centres, but particularly of those institutes, that many professionals, particularly qualified technicians, went abroad, which at the time called into question the provision of health care. The honourable Member says that the professionals in need are not hired. I ask you how many contests have you opened for hiring professionals? Few or none.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u23	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u24	Mr President, I conclude by saying that Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto may well here try to exercise her responsibilities whitening, but she cannot do so - because the Portuguese, users and professionals know which way I would like to go. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u25	To make a request for clarification, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the BE, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u26	Mr President, Mrs Galriça Neto, Mrs Deputy is part of a party that, when she was in government, cut EUR 1000 million to the National Health Service. Still, from the rostrum, it accuses the current parliamentary majority of captivating the National Health Service. But what your speech actually reveals is that the CDS, yes, is extremely childish when it discusses health, is childish of a desire that can no longer hide, which is the desire for the collapse of the National Health Service, making eyes, every day, so that there is something wrong in the public health service in Portugal, so that you can ride this wave; it is captive of the political opportunism of circumstance. Madam Member, I will not remind you again of the CDS-PP registration when you were in the government about health, but I can remind you what you did about two weeks ago when we discussed the State Budget: for example, we proposed here the full service count of the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians to make a correct, fair and dignified transition to the new career and the CDS-PP abstained. The honourable Member now speaks of the professional demands for political opportunism! I can also remind you, Mrs Deputies, what happened two weeks ago when the Left Block proposed, also at the state budget, the guarantee of a correct counting of the time of service for nurses, nursing professionals and Mrs Deputies and the CDS-PP abstained.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u27	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u28	He now speaks of professionals for political opportunism, trying to ride a wave of political opportunism and instrumentalization of the struggle and demands of workers. The honourable Member spoke about the Basics Act, which is a great subject. The question is whether the CDS-PP will continue to insist on its ideological prejudice against the public, against the National Health Service, on the one who was the great mistake of the Basics Act of 1990, which had the favorable vote of the CDS-PP, and which is today one of the main problems of the National Health Service, or will finally look at the health of Portuguese and Portuguese as a right and not as a business. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u29	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u30	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking you for your questions. Deputies José António Silva, Carla Cruz and Moisés Ferreira. I wanted to tell you that I am amazed when you come here and accuse us of opportunism. I remember that it is four years — I repeat, four years! —, four budgets...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u31	Exactly, four!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u32	... that you men can afford. I'd like to know what PCP and what Left Block I'm talking about: if the one who comes here cries out against the socialist government action and then approves the Budgets or if the one who follows is going to run to the demonstrations...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u33	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u34	... penalize itself by here having made it viable and contributed, in these four years, to the deterioration of socialist governance in the governance and state of the SNS. We understand your malaise, your bad conscience, that you have to do this daily stage of sometimes making possible policies that attack the National Health Service and then hurry up, as we have seen in the Health Commission this morning... What is the Left Block and the PCP we're talking about today? What are you pretending to be next to the professionals or the one who is attacking the National Health Service every day? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u35	The one who pretends to be next to the professionals is the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u36	We don't have two faces, two positions. Therefore, we reaffirm that we defend the National Health Service, we have a modern view, according to which it is necessary to change the forms of management, to fight for the feasibility of evaluations by results. We have already proved here; we do not announce and then we do not. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, you cannot come to accuse us of anything we do not do. We defend the National Health Service and, in time, you will see that we will make important contributions to the Basics Law of the National Health Service, which, by the way, now fractures the Socialist Party. You don't understand, you don't understand! On the issue of investment, the CDS has been saying for three years that this government, with the support of the Left Block, the PCP and the Green Party does not invest in health. It also says the Directorate-General of the Budget that investments are smaller than they were in the time of the troika, the troika that was brought...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u37	Investments or transfers?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u38	Investments, yes, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, are not transfers! Do not quarrel, because it is the Directorate-General for Budget that says so, effectively showing that investments in the National Health Service are much smaller. That is also what health professionals tell us, and if you are on the ground, as we are going, you will hear what they say. But then again — this is the cherry at the top of the cake! — the former Minister of Health tells us that the problem of the SNS does not, in fact, be solved by a new Basic Law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u39	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u40	...the problem is investments. Mr. ex-Minister has responsibilities! We are not the ones who have been in government, and you have supported these policies! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u41	The Bureau recorded two more entries for requests for clarification from the Members. Deputies Antonio Sales, of the PS, and José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens. Mr António Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, your conversation is more than that. For those who voted against the SNS Law in 1979,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... for those who voted for the Basics Law which, in 1990, broke the doors to large private groups, for those who voted against the State Budget for 2019, which plans a substantial strengthening of SNS funding, the honourable Member now had a huge opportunity to make the act of contribution and tell the Portuguese whether in fact he regrets his political past and is effectively next to the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputy, between 2011 and 2015, I remind you that the CDS, then in government, cut EUR 1000 million in health finance, cut salaries, cut pensions, cut labor rights, worsened moderate rates, cut non-urgent transport, frozen innovative therapy, cut health professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u43	Was it or wasn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u44	Mrs. Member, you cut the fat and shaved the bone.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u45	They weren't worried!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u46	Between 2016 and 2018, the current government restored health professionals, frozen innovative therapy, wage and pensions, strengthened the SNS in EUR 1200 million. In three years, we have recovered everything that you have blindly cut to the Portuguese and the most vulnerable bands of Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Depute, today, professionals strike for diametrically opposed reasons because they did it between 2011 and 2015 : today, they strike to rest their work rights and to have career projects; at the time, Mrs. Depute, they strike because they had cut their wages, because they had cut their pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u48	The Government of the Socialist Party today, negotiates itself negotiates those which are its claims,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u49	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u50	...but do it in a serious, responsible, gradual, progressive way, according to the country's resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u51	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u52	Serious accounts, strong public accounts, to have an ever stronger SNS, Mrs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u53	To make your request for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, it is true that health is having problems, but it is also true that the problems are not currently, are the result of decades of underfunding, in which the PSD/CDS government has strong and serious responsibilities. In fact, they were champions in terms of underfunding of health. Moreover, Mrs Deputy, on the problem of the shift from 40 to 35 hours a week, the major manager was the PSD Government and the CDS, which increased from 35 hours a week to 40 hours. If it weren't for that today, we wouldn't have that problem. [[CDS-PP protests.]] She then said that for this government health is not a priority. Now, as I have not forgotten that the CDS was part of a government that has spent four years closing health services throughout the country, proceeding to blind cuts in everything that stirs, in an area as sensitive as that of health, disbursing public administration workers, including health professionals, making an effort to push users into health costs and seeking to fatten the private market, I am perplexed and thinking that the CDS has only now awakened to health issues. The honourable Member also says that for the CDS it is necessary to ensure, and it is a priority, the access of all Portuguese to health. The question I ask you, Mrs Deputy, is if you remember a Minister of Health of the previous Government, the PSD / CDS, who said that it closed health services to improve Portuguese access to health care. Do you remember, Mrs. Member? I still remember! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u55	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to thank Mr António Sales and Mr José Luís Ferreira for their questions. I would like to say that, in fact, it is gratifying that, in the face of the very serious problems that Portuguese people experience every day in health services, you have consistently come to invoke, because you have nothing more to invoke, the past, the past of a troika that you have brought to the country, seriously, very serious problems of socialist governance that you have indebted to us, which imposes sacrifices... [[PS protests.]] You don't like me to remind you, you don't like me to remember you! But, as I was saying, in the face of problems, you refer us to the past. Why? Because they have no results, because they have been in government for three years and they do not rule, because three years ago this is the same conversation, Mr.António Sales: promises, promises, promises, push with the belly and not solve it! The Portuguese are tired of socialist governance, a Left Block, a PCP and an Ecological Party « The Greens» who do nothing but daily stagings, pretending that they are outraged and making all that socialist governance has imposed on health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u57	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u58	What's going on? Until then, what is it, indeed, the Prime Minister who, with Centeno, determines the policies, because, moreover, we do not have government, is on strike to the government? Oh, my God! It's been three years there and you have no results to show! You have no results, you have no negotiating capacity, you have no decision-making capacity, you do not meet those who are the necessary solutions. I just wanted to leave a note here: I think this is the second time we have explained in plenary — my colleague Ana Rita Bessa has already done so and I think it will be a problem of explanation — that we, with regard to the National Health Service Act in 1979, voted against a version that had certain aspects, because we presented another one. And the honourable Member, for the sake of truth and honesty, has forgotten to say that the developments that have occurred were in the sense of the law that the CDS presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u59	Well, well! As always, we were right before time!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u60	The honourable Member is therefore intellectually and politically dishonest when he accuses us. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The CDS — and I will conclude — was right before time, the CDS is not against the SNS, the CDS is not against the development of health services, the CDS has, like you, legitimacy to think differently and to present proposals. It has been what we have done here and the proposals have been systematically piped.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u61	They were just for the private!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u62	It was business!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u63	I repeat: our proposals have been systematically plummeted! So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the united left, it's time to solve the problems,... [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]] It's time, in fact, to rule. Go from words to acts and give an answer to the Portuguese! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u64	What are you implying? Be a man! What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u65	For a political declaration on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The working hours, their compliance, respect for rest times, their payment and compensation conditions and the link between family and professional life continue to be the target of the most serious attacks on workers' rights. In the 21st century, in the year 2018, the employers think that it gives hours to workers for breastfeeding if they like it. In the middle of the 21st century, the chiefs ask themselves whether they are pregnant or if they are still thinking about it, because it does not give them any way. In the 21st century, the employers look at their children as limits to the availability of workers because they are sick and require follow-up. In the 21st century, employers violate fundamental human rights that are in the law and in the Constitution. Miriam, an operator at the Pingo Doce, had a risk pregnancy and when she returned to work required a reduction in hours for breastfeeding and flexible hours because her husband works in shifts. She was threatened, humiliated and blackmailed to give up. He courageously resisted at a time of great physical and emotional vulnerability, but he succeeded. Still, today it continues to be forced to serve two hours of lunch, as punishment, even if that means being an hour stopped, without any duties to perform. Already after this, it was closed in a room with three shopkeepers, pressured and threatened so that, as a union delegate, whenever participating in a meeting in this area should inform the company about the reason and the reasons for it. This worker is still fighting today—it was still so yesterday! — with the solidarity of colleagues. Last November, a worker from the Supercor store of Beloura, from the El Corte Inglés group, in Sintra, was closed in a room for several hours with the chiefs to accept changes in strikes. In the face of his refusal, the worker was threatened that they knew that he had minor children and that if he did not accept the changes, he would be transferred to a store far away from his residence. In the Mini-price / Day stores, one arrives at the top of a worker's request for flexible time allocation, answer yes, thus avoiding sending the request to the Commission for Equal Work and Employment (ISCED), but then assign exactly the time to the one that the worker required, as a form of pressure to give up that right. This is what happened recently at the shopMiniprice / Day of the Avenue General Roçadas, in Lisbon. As a general rule, the Sonae Group and Lidl are entitled not to assign flexible hours, even if the couple works in the same shift scheme, preventing at least one of them from having conditions for monitoring their children. In theIndex group—in the stores Zara, Massimo Dutti and Stradivarius— always refuse the allocation of flexible hours and always suggest the reduction of the hourly load and, consequently, the reduction of wages. In the call center of Fidelity in Évora, the flexible time is permanently refused and only with much struggle and determination was possible to ensure its application to 14 young mothers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, still this month, an IPSS (particular institution of social solidarity), I repeat, an IPSS, in the Viseu district, refused the allocation of flexible time, even with the ISCED's opinion giving reason to the worker. The union requested the intervention of the Labour Conditions Authority ( ACT ), but 15 days have passed and everything remains in it. This worker has not yet returned to work, because obviously she cannot leave her child alone at home. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament: The violence and dehumanization of working hours and the refusal of time to follow up on children often mean putting mothers and parents before the decision to keep the job or to be accused of leaving the child. This is what we are talking about: of so many and so many children in this country who are given to relatives, brothers, neighbors, themselves, because mothers cannot fail to fulfill wild times. There are so many families in this country where the time deregulation corresponds to the intermittentness of children's affections and routines, not allowing harmonious development conditions for children and young people. In the face of all this, the Government has recently decided to present a programme to promote reconciliation between family and professional life, where it solemnly ignores, where it solemnly ignores the need for reduced working hours, the strengthening of supervision and punishment of time defaults and the violation of maternity and paternity rights. in this program, there is not even one line that records this permanent practice of intimidation, persecution and denial of fundamental human rights and the need for its fight. How can you want to discuss the articulation of professional and family life without discussing the reduction of working hours and without imposing zero tolerance to these practices of violation of rights? Oh, my God! That's how they did PSD and CDS. The strategy to reconcile family life and professional life, which has often been presented by PSD and CDS, is exactly the same in the same terms and in the same assumptions, which the PS now presents to the country. In fact, it says until it should be discussed in social consultation, as if bosses who deny these rights every day, being deeply aware of what they are doing, wanted to discuss something else that does not continue unpunished, violating the law and the Constitution. We need political will, we need to monitor and punish companies that do not comply with what is enshrined in the law and the Constitution. It is urgent to combat the deregulation of working hours, the repeal of hourly banks, the adaptations and concentrated times. It is urgent to ensure 35 hours for all workers, both in public and in private, without any loss of remuneration. It is urgent to strengthen the rights of shift workers and to ensure full respect for maternity and paternity rights. Proposals from the CFP will be voted on in the coming months. We will not give up this fight, which is a struggle to value work and is essential for the development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u67	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record the registration of four Members. Ladies and gentlemen, to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u68	I will answer each one individually, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u69	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Before we move on to the requests for clarification, we must proceed to the urgent vote on a request by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to waive the deadline for claim against inaccuracies in respect of Bill Nos 155 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2019 and 156 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2019. Let's vote for him. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] So let us continue our work. You have the floor, first of all, to ask for clarification, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u70	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, first of all, I would like to congratulate the CFP on bringing here such an important issue, which is what concerns labour legislation and maternity and paternity rights. In fact, the honourable Member has ended up making a violent attack on her Government on Programme 3 in the Line, and we also believe that it has not gone through a campaign programme, because it is a hand full of nothing and also brings us questions that are already being appreciated here in Parliament. I would like to tell you that, in this respect, the honourable Member is quite right and that the issue of maternity and paternity rights, in particular the strengthening of the reconciliation between professional life and personal life, was a concern of my parliamentary group, both in the previous and current legislation. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] I would remind the honourable Member that it was on the initiative of this parliamentary group, with the support of the CDS, that the compulsory parental leave of the father increased to 15 days and therefore cannot accuse us of not being concerned about this matter. In fact, Mrs Deputies, I would say that it is in a way strange that, two weeks ago, in the adoption of the State budget, your parliamentary group has been leading initiatives presented by the PSD to support families, to support birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u71	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u72	I therefore ask you whether the conciliation between personal and professional life is in fact a concern of the CFP, why is it that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy? Members voted against the measures proposed by the PSD in the State budget for support for families and births? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u73	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u74	Mr President, I am grateful for the question that Mrs Clara Marques Mendes put to me, but I would like to recall the following: in 2012 there was an amendment to the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS, to the Labour Code ; in 2012 the PSD and the CDS decided to go against the history wheel; in 2012 the PSD and the CDS, in some matters with the support of the PS — that is true! — decided to impose the increase in working hours in the Public Administration. The PSD and the CDS decided against a achievement that the workers had achieved in 1998, particularly in a sector — the Public Administration — where most workers are women, and unfortunately we still live in a country where unpaid work on families is in charge of women with dependents, whether they are minors or elderly. What the PSD and CDS decided at the time was to increase the working time in the Public Administration, particularly penalizing families and women. But they did more than that: they imposed the possibility of working hours, through the Labour Code, to go up to 60 hours a week, at 12 hours a day. Today, in this country, 75% of workers, overwhelmingly women, already work on shifts on Saturday, Sunday, on holidays, and this dehumanizes any family relationship. The honourable Member asked why we voted against some proposals which the PSD presented in the State budget but did not say everything. It is that the proposals which the PSD here has brought, within the State budget, benefit some families: those that hold the economic groups that deny rights to workers who work!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u76	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u77	In fact, what the PSD wanted to propose were tax benefits for companies that guarantee what is already in the law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u78	Don't! Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u79	...because what PSD and CDS want is to award companies that comply with the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u80	What about the rest? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u81	Now, first of all, companies do not comply with the law or the Constitution and secondly, it is no good to comply with the law, Mrs Deputy. Businesses have more to do than comply with the law! Therefore, what Mrs Deputies wanted, once again, were tax bills, tax benefits for economic groups which, as I said here well — and Mrs Deputies at no time condemned the practice carried out in this country, not by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but by economic groups such as Jerome Martins and Sonae — every day they violate the rights of motherhood and paternity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u82	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u83	Mr President, I conclude by saying that the CFP here will be, at all times, to defend families and to defend the children of workers, of all workers! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u84	To make your request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u85	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate and congratulate the CFP on choosing the subject for today's political declarations. In fact, the Socialist Party has always understood that a true and effective policy for the protection of the family and also of working parents and mothers necessarily has to be developed cross-sectionally, with a broad basis of support and also in the context of a concerted policy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the defence of the rights of the family, kinship and workers must go beyond this House and also this government. The way we treat families, especially those who have children, and even more those who have young children, requires a strong change, especially of mentalities. It is in this sense, Mrs Rita Rato, who comes to the question of Programme 3 in Line, because what this Programme is defending is precisely a change of policies based on a change in attitudes, behaviour and mentality. I also refer to a very important measure which has been announced in this Programme, which is the increase in the father's compulsory parental leave for 20 working days. Families who already have children, or who want to have them or who want to have more, cannot continue to be harmed at work as they have been here. in this, Mrs. Deputy, we are fully in agreement. On the one hand, we cannot continue to regret because we have few children and do not have babies, and on the other hand we continue to allow companies to discriminate negatively against families who have children or, better, workers and workers who have children. However, I have noticed that in your speech you have omitted, because you have certainly forgotten some important advances that have already been made during this legislative session. I recall, for example, the changes that have been made under the regime of the transmission of establishment and also the legislative amendments with regard to labour harassment. I therefore ask the honourable Member if she does not think that these measures—of course there will always be much more to do—have had an important impact. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u86	In reply, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u87	Mr President, Mrs Carla Tavares, you must recognize that, in view of the concrete reality of the workplaces, what the Government has presented leads us to understand that it is in a separate world, because reality, today, in the workplaces, is marked by permanent violations of the law. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u88	Today, reality in the workplace is marked by repression, intimidation, blackmail, harassment, which proves that it is not enough to pass the law, it is necessary that the law exists in the role and life of workers. Unfortunately, on the issue of harassment, he well knows that much remains to be approved, in particular a proposal from the CFP which protected the witnesses — the workers who were witnesses in this process — and which allowed him to carry the process with consequence to the end. From the moment this is not guaranteed, the situation is also much more fragile. But that's not all! It is not understood how the government wants to discuss the link between family life and working life and the reduction of working hours says zero, says that it wants to discuss it in the context of social dialogue. And, in terms of social consultation, the employer has already said what he wanted: increase working hours and exacerbate exploitation. You don't want to discuss this! The interest of the employer is to understand how he finds ways to pressure the workers to work longer and receive less. It is obvious that the Government has to choose to ensure this objective of articulating family life and working life, reducing hours and giving ACT means to monitor, not to do pedagogy. ACT does not have to do pedagogy in companies! ACT must intervene, punish and punish companies that do not comply with the law. I gave him the example of an IPSS, in the Viseu district, where the CESP ( Trade Workers' Union, Writings and Services of Portugal ) required the intervention of ACT 15 days ago and the ACT was not yet there. The worker continues at home, with salary losses, because she cannot leave her child. Therefore, what the government presented is very little or nothing, because it is necessary to have a firm hand in relation to a patronage that in 2018 violates fundamental human rights. The 70 years of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights have recently been fulfilled, I repeat, 70 years, and we have today patronized that it does not fulfil fundamental human rights. This is unacceptable! The right to employment with rights is a fundamental human right! How can we think that companies can pass by this, that employers have no responsibilities exclusively in this? Oh, my God! You have them, and you have them first! Therefore, in this regard, the Government must have a political commitment to reduce working hours, to repeal existing mechanisms that make working hours wild and have to provide inspection and punitive means to the Act. It is not time to pedagogy with companies, it is time to ensure compliance with the law and the Constitution. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u89	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I congratulate Mrs Rita Rato and the CFP for bringing this issue to plenary. The honourable Member has brought us several situations allegedly of injustice and violation of the law. I want to tell you clearly that for the CDS, any situation that is illegal, whether it is perpetrated by large or small groups, or even by political parties, must be sanctioned. The honourable Member certainly knows what has recently come to the public and who, for example, aims at the Communist Party in relation to a former worker. I don't know whether it's true or not, but if it's illegal, these situations should always be treated by law. I would like to say to you, Madam Commissioner, that, of course, during the debates we have had on this subject, it is clear that the CDS and the CCP have different views on many matters, of course, but we have also had some convergence in our readings and concerns. The CFP has expressed them, the CSD has expressed them and has brought to the debate, several times, the topic of birth, the theme of the family, the topic of reconciliation between the family and the work, presenting concrete proposals, many of which we know well that the CFP does not follow, but regarding some other confesses that I still do not understand why they did not deserve the vote of the CFP, in fact, I understand, it was because they came from the CFP. I will give you three examples, so that we are not discussing abstractly. With regard to the proposal to increase up to six years of family allowance for numerous families, which are the most targeted by poverty in Portugal, with the highest risk rates of poverty in Portugal, the CFP voted against. With regard to the proposal for flexibility in the provision of day care facilities so that family schedules can be adapted, the CFP voted against. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] As regards the proposal to award companies that go beyond the law, not that they comply with the law but that go beyond the law, in the conciliation between the family and the work, the CFP voted against. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would just like to ask you whether you have been surprised to see the Government present this Programme 3 in Line, when we have been in the Assembly of the Republic for several months to study various measures, having been heard about 30 institutions, with hours and hours of parliamentary work, with a request for postponement, by the Socialist Party, of the vote that the CFP and the CDS had requested to take place this year, and the PS, after requesting the postponement of this vote, submits some proposals which are under discussion here in Parliament. I would like to know whether the CFP, as it supports this Government, was heard in the design of these measures and agrees with this action of the Government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u91	Mrs Rita Rato, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u92	Mr President, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, I am grateful for the question put to me. I think I was clear in the intervention I did and even I was, I think, very objective, when I said that much of the measures that were presented corresponds at all to what the PSD and CDS presented in relation to these matters. Such measures as telework, the removal of women from the labour market, all of which coincided with matters which the PSD and the CDS were defending, in fact, defended to subject this to the agreement and veto of employers' confederations in the context of social consultation. That's what I said and I keep it. from the PCP, the reading we do about this is that we discuss the matters of articulation of family life and professional life without having as objective to reduce working hours, without having as objective to revoke hourly banks, which prolong working hours and cut workers' incomes, without discussing the guarantee and commitment of full respect for maternity and paternity rights, is a discussion that, on our part, is not serious and is completely short of what is today reality in the workplace. But it is interesting, Mr President, that there is no word on the part of the PSD and the CDS to criticize an employer who violates the law and the Constitution of this country. Moreover, for the CDS, the patronage is untouchable and, honourable Member, we have reached a point where even the Bishop of Porto recently condemned the unacceptable practice of a company which is subject to unworthy treatment by a laborer, who is Cristina Tavares. The Bishop of Porto takes a position, condemns this practice, by this company, in the Aveiro district, but by the CDS, on this matter and on these practices, by these companies, we have zero. With regard to this matter, for the CFP, it is very clear that discussing respect for maternity and paternity rights is, firstly, ensuring compliance with the law and having a firm hand to punish and punish companies that do not comply with the law and the Constitution. All the rest is to be complicit in this process. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u93	Mr José Moura Soeiro, from the Left Block, now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u94	Mrs President, Mrs Rita Rato, brought here a very important complaint of several cases of violations of labour law and workers' law and, above all, of workers' rights. In fact, when we see employers refusing to reduce working hours for breastfeeding, to refuse flexible hours which are provided for in the law, to refuse shift work for pregnant workers, to refuse workers' right to dispensation for childcare, or, for example, to have acts of real cruelty with mothers and parents—especially mothers, because they are mainly those who take care in a society which still has this unequal division of care—that have children with disabilities and who wait for labour legislation to respond to them and that they end impunity in the world of work, when we know that the precariousness of bond and time and that the rules of geographical mobility are used as a form of harassment against workers, we are, in fact, in the face of the violation of one of the most basic human rights. And it's not enough for the law to be on the side of the workers. We know that, often, the Labour Conditions Authority is very much below what would be desirable, but even when it acts impunity it continues. I have with me the news of the Working Conditions Authority on the case of Cristina Tavares, the worker of the yard who is being subjected to an act of torture by her employer. We have photographs here of what the company has done to you, and they have been distributed to all Members. The company forced her to load and download the same pallets, the same bags with cork rolls, deprived her of access to the bathrooms and the parking lot. This process is proceeding and is proceeding with the unacceptable impunity of a company, which, after being convicted by the court and the act, continues to pressure, persecute and torture the worker. We know, Mrs Deputies, that without strengthening the capacity to act, without strengthening the capacity of the ISCED ( Committee on Equality in Labour and Employment ), without reducing the working time as we have proposed, without preventing the abuse of the hour banks, particularly outside collective bargaining,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u95	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u96	... without combating precariousness, there is no possible reconciliation between personal and family life and work. A discussion on parenthood is taking place in Parliament and we will have a working group which will amend the Labour Code from January onwards.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u97	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u98	We know that we have many convergences with the PCP, it remains to be known what the PS will do, whether it will join the left to correct these abuses or join the right to maintain injustice in the law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u99	Mrs Rita Rato, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u100	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, I would like to thank you for this question. Indeed, the violation of maternity and paternity rights, the violation of fundamental rights, because that is what we are dealing with, is a symptom of the weakness of the health of the democratic regime and of what is happening in our country today in terms of working conditions and respect for workers' rights. When, today, we have economic groups who find themselves in the right to ask workers whether they are thinking of becoming pregnant, or whether they are pregnant, or what is the age of their children, and with that conditioning their admission, when, today, in the 21st century, in 2018, we have companies that, before a flexible time requirement, which is the only time that allows the children, often single-parent families, to follow up, make a scheme of strategy to avoid a request to the Commission for Equality in Labour and Employment, saying yes, that they accept, but then, as a reprisal, what they do is assigning the exact opposite time, which is what the daily / mini-price stores do, this is well an example of the type of patronage and the values of the employer we have in our country, in the 21st century, but which has values of the 19th century. That is why it is particularly serious that one insists on a path of pedagogy for this reality. In view of this reality, what is required is, of course, the repeal of the serious rules of the Labour Code which allow the patronate to do this, but also a firm hand to punish and punish the companies that do so. However, what has happened—is not happening! — is that the Corteira Fernando Couto — Cortizas, SA, who has had a criminal practice with regard to the worker Cristina Tavares, has been also awarded awards from IAPMEI ( Agency for Competitiveness and Innovation, IP ) and with awards awarded by public institutions that lend themselves to this. Companies win prizes, but do not have any follow-up regarding respect for workers' rights. For us, it is very clear that ensuring the fulfilment of fundamental rights, ensuring the fulfilment of the right to maternity and paternity is not a favour or good practice, it is a right of workers and an obligation of companies. For this reason, on the part of the CFP, we will be here to repeal all the serious standards of the Labour Code and strengthen the rights of workers. There is no democracy without the fulfilment of workers' rights, there is no democracy without the fulfilment of the right to motherhood and paternity, when the child's integral development and best interests are at stake, firstly. This is what is still being denied to many children and families in this country today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u101	For a political statement on behalf of the Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Conference on Climate, COP24 ( 24th Conference of the Parties and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) ended last day 15 in Poland. of the results of this conference, progress has been made in defining and implementing some aspects of the implementation of the Paris Agreement, but these advances are not at least sufficient to achieve the ambition that the planet needs nor to guarantee the certainty of results effectively necessary to mitigate climate change. The most recent report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that, in order to achieve a global temperature increase of not more than 1, 5 °C in relation to the pre-industrial era, it is necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 45 % by 2030 — by 2030, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is almost — according to 2010 reference values. That is, for 20 years, we still have 10 to take effective measures that substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The problem is that, at the rate at which the lack of measures and global warming progresses, the average global temperature may reach, according to scientific data, more than 4 °C at the end of this century, with catastrophic consequences widely studied and identified, in particular: rising seawater levels; increasing the number and intensity of climate extremes; massive destruction of biodiversity, with very serious impacts on ecosystem services that are provided to human societies; losing useful soil for agriculture and consequently the capacity to produce food; spreading of certain diseases with tropical characteristics, among so many other consequences with very worrying results, in particular — and one that should concern us, taking into account the reality that we know — the increase in the number of climate and environmental refugees in this world outside. It is therefore necessary to generate and set the political ambition not to increase at more than 1, 5 °C the average temperature of the planet. That was the urgent signal for action that the Conference of the Parties to the Framework Convention on Climate Change in Poland did not give. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change states that it has been demonstrated and, in particular, at the pace of practice, it is not easy to achieve that goal, but it is not impossible to achieve it. However, we will not be able to achieve it with attitudes such as that of the United States of America, which refused to join the Paris Agreement and which seek to delude and classify fossil fuels as clean sources of energy, which is absolutely loaded. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the world needs urgent measures and we know that combating climate change is a global problem that requires local responses. That is why in Portugal the Greens will continue to be hit by more investment to achieve results in relation to climate change, both in the component of our adaptation and in the component of its mitigation. Just in this latter component, we will seek to encourage and claim that energy production is fully achievable from renewable sources, at least from 2050 onwards. We have that responsibility. We cannot talk about the decarbonization of our economy solely from a theoretical point of view and through some documents that are taking place, concrete investments are needed so that the measures can be implemented. We also believe that, from an energy point of view, it is essential to give priority to the production of decentralized and local-based electricity for self-consumption and also to energy efficiency and savings in the electrical system globally. On the other hand, we, the Greens, do not consider that the transition, let us say, as far as mobility is concerned, so fundamental to this matter, is the car that consumes fossil fuels for the electric car, because the future is in fact in the bet on collective and active mobility. in this sense, it is essential to invest in a network of public transport appropriate to the needs of citizens, either from a road viewpoint or from a river point of view, either from a rail point of view — which is a fundamental sector — so that people can in fact make the option to leave individual transport in their pendulum movements and associate themselves with the use of collective transport, provided it is indeed useful. On the other hand, it is also essential to adopt more sustainable agricultural practices, but not as Mr Environment has announced, in order to lower livestock production in the country, leading to believe that what will happen, given the levels of consumption, is an extension of import in this sector. This is not, in fact, a suitable solution to the global problem that has been created. We need more sustainable solutions, which reduce the ecological footprint, whether from the point of view of individual attitudes or from the point of view of economic attitudes, and in this regard we need more sustainable local production for even more sustainable local consumption. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are some examples of proposals by which the Greens have been beaten and will continue to beat — and I will even finish, Madam President — in order to ensure necessary investments to save this planet, with conditions to receive us and a unique biological richness. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u103	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the Bureau recorded the inscriptions of five Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u104	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u105	Mr Luís Vilhena of the Socialist Party has the floor from now on to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on Katowice and COP24, began by saying that, one day, when economists replace the expression "economic growth" with "sustainableness", countries find support and social security mechanisms without increasing their birth, citizens live comfortable outside a hyper-consumer society and the lobbyies of fossil fuels lose their strength in relation to renewable energies, there, and only there, can we have signs of the reversal of a curve built by this model of development in which we still live. Until then, we will mitigate some of the implications that this development model has, which abuses the natural resources that the planet has and alters the balance of the ecosystem. If this was my conviction before participating in COP24, I was even more certain and convinced of it. Despite some failures at this summit, important compromise documents, such as the book of rules, were given steps and signed. However, if the right steps are not taken to decarbonise the economy, in the sense that the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, in his speech we must move from the level of urgency to the level of emergency. I am convinced that Portugal is on the right track and even benefits from its good performance in terms of environmental and energy policies. For this reason, the question that Mrs Heloísa Apolónia was left to Mrs Apolónia was whether, given that most of the parameters she presented are taking place in global terms on the planet, she agrees that Portugal is in a good position and on a good path to this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u107	Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, fortunately, the fight against climate change is much more than Katowice or COP24. If not, the Earth's environmental sustainability would be suspended between the powerful lobby of hydrocarbons and their economic interests and the conservative negationist ideology, which refuses to see human hand in climate change. But, fortunately, this fight is much more than Katowice and COP24. In Lisbon, for example, the red lines of the protesters in relation to the holes of Aljubarrota and Bajouca were clear. It makes no sense any strategy of investment in energy sources that we want and need to overcome, so anyone who wants to invest in energy must do so in clean and renewable sources. About Katowice, we just have to say it was a disappointment. The out text of Katowice defines some methodologies for measuring greenhouse gas emissions, but it is a kind of metric tape that has nothing to measure, because countries have refused any ambition regarding the definition of targets for reducing emissions of those gases. The central problem is that the hydrocarbon lobby and the conservative negationist ideology continue to block decisive advances in combating climate change. The lack of ambition and clarity of the final COP24 text is also reflected in the lack of agreement to combat inequalities and poverty and the financing of the Green Fund, which is essential for combating climate change. In addition, the COP24 text welcomes the report of the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change, but does not define any effective goal. This is the central problem. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Heloísa Apolónia whether or not if the COP texts continue to do so, these are only mediocre results that at nothing contribute to the advance of the fight against climate change. Decisive measures are needed, with ambition, with defined goals. We need to take this path, but we need to know what we want to achieve in combating climate change. We therefore need to define fundamental steps for the energy transition in our country. One of the problems that arises is the lack of investment in energy of photovoltaic origin, in which we have an absurd delay, although Portugal is one of the countries of Europe with the greatest solar exposure. There is therefore a lack of investment in energy transition and in the construction of infrastructures that enable this transition to be effective and with the use of clean and renewable sources. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u109	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Angela Moreira from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the pretext of combating climate change is used to try to legitimize and deepen the implementation of mechanisms that aim to market the environment. The term ‘climate change’ is reduced only as ‘average temperature rise’ is reduced as extreme climate events are more often not exhausted by rising temperature. The relationship between man and nature should be harmonious and sustainable, but capitalism has led to a collapse of natural resources with the sole aim of generating profit. From a real problem they continue to try to impose mechanisms that say it is the solution of the problem, but at no time they refer to the consequences of their actions, in particular as regards the production model, the form of distribution, the way of generating profit in a society in which excessive consumption, overproduction, inherent waste and poor distribution are not at least discouraged. The central thesis, led by an alarmism focused on climate change, is to blame everyone for the delapidation of nature as if they had all the same responsibility, seeking to prevent the development of less developed countries when, in reality, those who contribute most to this disappearance of nature resources are not directly responsible. With regard to the need to combat climate change, it is useful to implement mechanisms whose aim is to mercanise the environment without questioning the perverseness and ineffectiveness of market instruments, such as carbon, which, in an economic activity reduction framework, the greenhouse gas producer decreases the demand for a CO2 production licence, thereby lowering the price of licences, making it cheaper to pollute. More than discussing the effects of climate change, it would also be important to discuss its causes, which would allow us to conclude that the solution to climate change and other environmental problems will be found within the framework of the national economic and social system in which we live. Finally, we want to value the Greens' concern with this issue. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u111	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that Katowice was not the success that was required, but it has also, of course, enabled it to move in the right direction. More is needed, as is obvious, but despite attempts to block some, today we have a book of rules, a single matrix of reporting and quantification of emissions and open path to the contributions that we will define in 2020. As UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said, we are no longer in an emergency state, but we are in an emergency state and we can no longer contemplate successive delays. This is a subject that you like to talk about, but in order for you to talk about it you should also have some history. This is a very expensive subject to the PSD, a theme shaped in our political and governmental action. The PSD has implemented important energy reforms, the environment, the planning of the territory and the fight against climate change. Our ambition for Portugal was widely recognized internationally and it was essential for us to present ourselves in Katowice today with the work done at home. Today, The Greens bring this issue and shake the flag of the fight against climate change, but it is interesting to ask where they were when the country decided to face this problem, where they were when we set demanding goals and made progress. They want less fossil fuels, but they have voted against our measures of electric mobility and against investments in wind and water.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u114	They claim the protection of the coast, but they are against the removal of illegal buildings and against measures to defend the coast. They want more sustainable behaviour, but have reversed green taxation incentives, voted against the taxation of light plastic bags and against the taxation of vehicles based on CO2 emissions. The truth is that we cannot count on the Greens in this challenge!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u115	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u116	The Green Party which today speaks of the importance of Paris is the same as it is emboldened, in a coalition with the CFP, to elect two Members, but which cannot, at least, be able to vote in favour of ratification of that agreement, which today says is fundamental. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u117	Also to ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca by the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u118	Mr President, first of all, I would like to greet Mrs Heloísa Apolónia for bringing this important issue to plenary today. Madam Member, it seems to us to all that it is indisputable that we must mitigate the effects of climate change, and it is also indisputable that COP24 was, once again, not ambitious, especially in the lack of targets for countries to fulfil. But the European Union has committed itself, Portugal is also committed and the government has presented the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality to 2050. The Government's great commitment is to decarbonisation, on the one hand, by placing itself on the production of renewable energy and on the other hand on electric mobility. Portugal has, in fact, excellent conditions for the production of solar energy, wind energy and even the energy of waves, when it is more developed, on which, in fact, there is no word on this Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality. But, Madam Member, for humanity to withstand the impact of climate change, it is not enough Portugal, or the European Union, or a number of countries to contribute. Unfortunately—or fortunately—the air and the sea do not have physical borders and, therefore, Portugal is given as one of the countries that most impacts will suffer, but it is also one of the countries that has contributed a lot to the reduction of climate change. I therefore find it strange that neither Mrs Heloísa Apollonia nor any of the previous Members have spoken of a matter which is going to be fundamental to Portugal, which is water. Madam Member, I ask you if you do not think that, along with a strategy to mitigate climate change, we must also have a strategy to adapt to climate change. It is that the CDS does not know what the adaptation strategy is, nor do we even know if the government has any adaptation strategy
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u120	With regard to water, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the joint position which the Greens had with the Government to put an end to the dams in Portugal and reading pages 214 and 328 of the IPCC Report (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change), we find what the CDS has been saying frequently, i.e., that intense precipitation will become more and more frequent and the droughts are becoming more and more prolonged. The Intergovernmental Panel explicitly states that more water must be stored. I would like to ask the honourable Member what the Green Party thinks of this. Do you think, like the NAP, that we are going to have to undergo water shortages and that we are going to stay in the desert or understand that we have to do something and therefore store water to safeguard us from a future that is closer than, unfortunately, we all want to avoid suffering the consequences of the lack of water that our country will have? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u121	In response to requests for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u122	Mr President, I begin by saying that I generally agree with what you said. Mr Luís Vilhena and Mr Pedro Soares and Mrs Angela Moreira and even with part of what Mrs Patrícia Fonseca referred to. However, as far as Mr Coimbra has said, I am sorry, but his speech of demagogy is very wrong with him. Mr Bruno Coimbra, may I remind you of what was one of the major measures you have taken, not to combat climate change, but to encourage collective mobility? It was to remove money from people's wallet, cut wages, cut pensions and everything else that they could achieve so that people could not strictly spend anything and were even obliged to...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u123	And the demagogic exercise is mine!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u124	... listen carefully to what I say to you—to stay at home, because of the logic of unemployment that you have created. And therefore neither did collective transport use. You see, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God! That was your great strategy for mobility in your component to combat climate change. You want me to remind you of something else? The kilometres of railway that you have wasted and closed. What a great strategy for combating climate change! Look, Mr, that is not the mobility strategy we are fighting for. We are fighting for more trains, more railways, more transports, whether they come from, to serve populations, those who have jobs and who gain dignity. Do you understand, Mr. Deputy? Our strategy is, in fact, very different. The honourable Member is here to remind you of the magnificent measure of plastic bags.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u125	How uncomfortable you are!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u126	Let me remind you exactly what that meant. Only if you are not serious is that you say that the Greens here, in the Assembly of the Republic, have not presented numerous measures to combat waste, packaging and plastics. At the time, we warned — and you know what our sense of vote was — that it is essential that light plastic bags disappear from the market, because they would not simply be disseminated in the free environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u127	Sure! It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u128	And there are incentives that can be given. Mr President, you are always penalizing consumers and introducing a fee. What did hypermarkets do? It is clear from the reason that the Greens have : they have removed the light bags from the market, put bigger ones and sold them to the consumer. The consumer thinks he's paying a fee and after all he's buying a product to the hypermarket.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u129	The consumer thinks he's paying a fee!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u130	In other words, the EUR 40 million that the PSD/CDS government said it was going to collect, given what it thought would decrease with the rate, were directly for hypermarkets. What a big deal you've created for hypermarkets! Applause, sir! [[Rice from PSD Deputies Bruno Coimbra and Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] In fact, this is not how climate change is combated and appropriate measures are taken to ensure better environmental standards. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, continue-CL - we will be fighting for the implementation of the National Plan for the Efficient Use of Water (UNEP) because we are sure that it is stuck in the drawer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u131	I should be on the table!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u132	Mrs Deputy, a new logic for the use of water is essential and it is also essential to have more sustainable agricultural practices, just in view of this more rational use. We are not against the dams, just so said, but we consider that we already have a quite reasonable storage capacity and it is not worth continuing to want to implement dams behind dams for minimum electrical production,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u133	You better go buy Spain!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u134	... that it has virtually no meaning, when we, in fact, have to bet on other sources, in other sources, especially in photovoltaics, where we are widely delayed regarding the potential we have. And that's what's fundamental,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u135	And the water isn't? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u136	...a strategic vision, integrated. That is the contribution that the Greens have made and that they want to continue to make. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u137	Mr Paulo Neves, on behalf of the PSD, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u138	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The PSD has decided today to bring to this plenary a clear example of how the PSD is to govern and bring the example of Madeira. We are government in the region by popular will and always with absolute majority since 1976.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u139	Great example!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u140	There were 11 successive victories in 40 years of autonomy. The PSD has transformed one of the poorest regions of poor Portugal in the 1970s into a region of average European income today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u141	One of the most indebted!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u142	One of the success features of the PSD governing Madeira has always been to comply with what we promise to do. In fact, the PSD has not only fulfilled its promises as it has done much more. We have felt the need to do a lot of what is the responsibility of the current Government of the Republic, of the PS, but that it would turn its back on its obligations. Examples are not missing. For example, the Government of the Republic has promised to support the stay of a helicopter to fight fires in the summer in Madeira. Only he didn't. Because the Madeira PSD Government has fully taken up the expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u143	And then? Oh, my God! What's wrong? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u144	The Government of the Republic also has the responsibility to support and create conditions for maritime mobility between Madeira and the continent; however, it refuses to finance. For the Government of Madeira, the PSD, has taken this financial support as a whole. The Government of the Republic of the PS also refuses to accept the suggestions for improvement throughout the air mobility process. One of the proposals is to avoid precisely the need for Madeirans to bring forward to the State the words which are the responsibility of the State itself. The PS does not want to change the system, whether the injustice remains. For the PSD/Madeira government has decided to take forward the student travel money with its own funds. These are, ladies and gentlemen. Members, some of the many examples that demonstrate the clear myopia and the lack of consideration of the Socialist Party in relation to autonomy. It is, however, the form of the PS to govern. A blatant example: only the PS has not yet realized—or I did not want to realize—that a new central hospital in Madeira is a new equipment in Portugal and that will serve the Portuguese of Madeira. The Social-Democratic Government of Madeira has already paid several million euros for the project and for the grounds of the future hospital. In fact, the international competition is moving forward right away. Only the Government of the Republic, of the PS, has been in an unacceptable game of cat and mouse with unclear commitments and sometimes doubts: it says it pays with one hand 50 % of the work, but immediately with the other one withdraws an amount, which does not exist, which is the sale of two buildings that are not theirs but that the Government of the Republic has taken abusively as its own, disrespecting the legitimate owners of these buildings that are Macedonian institutions that have nothing to do with the Government of the Republic. This is the way the PS governs: it counts as its what is from others and that is not its own. Consider other examples: Madeira’s economy, governed by the PSD, has been growing for 64 consecutive months. Madeira's public debt has presented an obvious downward trajectory and is currently worth less than 108 % of regional GDP. On the contrary, gross national public debt does not stop growing. The SDP in Madeira does not pay debt by creating another debt, as the PS government did, which paid what the IMF owed by creating another type of debt, a mere financial engineering because debt continues there. The Social-Democratic Government of Madeira has also been reducing the tax burden on families and workers and businesses. In the 2019 Budget, the Government of the PSD in Madeira continues the enormous fiscal breakdown. In IRC, the rate will go from current 16 % to 13, 6 %, representing a 20 % differential in relation to what companies pay in national territory. The price of fuels will also continue to fall—but in Madeira governed by the PSD, fuel prices will fall. For, at national level, the PS government with the Left Block and the Communist Party have raised the greatest tax burden in history but always maintaining the PS decision, which is to add every new year taxes are direct, indirect, tax or tax. A tax burden that has become unbearable on families, workers and businesses. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD never rules just to think the next day or just to meet the demands of coalition partners. We always rule thinking about the future, and the question of birth is an example of this. From now on—and I give you this example—there is a 40% cut in the crèches in Madeira. There is also a reduction in social passes, but all social passes. There is, for us, PSD, first Portuguese and second Portuguese, Portuguese of the coast and cities and Portuguese of the interior. Social justice measures, for us, are for all. Again, two very different ways of governing: ours, the PSD, and the PS. At national level, with the Socialist Party, many public services are in total rupture: professionals in permanent contest, Fantasy budgets — they promise investments in the Budget in November, when they know perfectly well that, during the year, they will captivate millions of euros of that same promised expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u146	These are, therefore, genuine fantasy budgets. They are hospitals, prisons, universities, schools, teams, trains, boats, Lisbon airport, all basic structures for the life of all Portuguese in almost total rupture and no immediate solutions in the future. The failure of the State where it is most necessary is seen. The blame lies with this government's solution! This is the film of reality. While the Government of the PS, with the support of the Communist Party and the Bloc, decides to approve huge captivations in the area of health by placing every day the National Health Service weaker, inefficient and deficient, because in Madeira the Social-Democrat Government refuses to make captives in the area of health as well as in other social expenses. These are, therefore, two very different ways of governing: ours, the PSD and the PS. I shall finish, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying the following: the victims in this way of ruling the PS with the Left Block and with the Communist Party are the Portuguese in general, but especially the most disadvantaged. This is, you can imagine, the Government of the Left. Well different, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the way of ruling in Madeira, it is the way of ruling in the Social Democratic Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u147	Supported! It's very different!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u148	Mr Paulo Neves, I would like to thank you, Mr Neves, for asking for clarifications, four Mrs. Members, one from BE, one from PS, one from CDS and one from PCP. Since he intends to respond, first, to requests for clarification from two Mrs. Members and then those of the other two have the floor Mr Ernesto Ferraz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u149	Madam President, Mr. Paulo Neves, here we see what the PSD has to say to the country: nothing! You have nothing to say, and then you have taken refuge in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which even has your own parliament, elected Members themselves, in order, in this case, to list a hand full of nothing and in which you add nothing again. What remains of the 40 years of the PSD Government in the Autonomous Region of Madeira is a hidden debt of EUR 6 billion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u150	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u151	... to be added a PAEF ( Economic and Financial Assistance Programme ), which still today, three years later, imposes on the shoulders of the Madeirans;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u152	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u153	... an unemployment rate that is the highest in the country; a young unemployment rate that reaches almost 40%; lack of opportunities for young people; an economic growth for 64 months, as Mr Deputies said, but it is a growth that nobody sees. In fact, someone sees: the same as ever. And we're talking about four decades of PSD governance! The honourable Member said that in the Autonomous Region of Madeira the economy has been growing for 64 months, but, according to recent data, almost one third of the population lives below the poverty line. So what's this growth? It is growth that never has come development. It is growth that grows in the pockets of some, but lacks in the pockets, in the life and dignity of the majority of the population. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u154	This is PSD growth! The honourable Member said that health, public services here, on the continent, are not working. Much has been said about the construction of the new hospital in Madeira, but today there are two hospitals that do not work either. All that is most essential, from medication to chronic diseases to a simple tablet. So after 64 years of economic growth, that's a dose. But there is more: the dignity that the Madeirans do not have over 40 uninterrupted years in which the PSD has fed...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u155	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u156	I'm done now, Madam President. As I said, the dignity that the Madeirans have not been uninterrupted for 40 years in which the PSD has fed their own monopolies, such as that of the transport that increases the price of the services it provides, made the Madeirans hostages of their island with the liberalisation of the airline, the only way to enter and leave the region, made appointments to tens and weeks, and everything is missing. So next year it will tell us that it was four decades and these decades have passed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u157	Mr Luís Vilhena has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u158	Madam President, Mr Paulo Neves, I live in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and you were also elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira. I would like to say that the advantage of Madeira to be an autonomous region is that of power, within the various areas of government action, to decide the direction and establish actions that are appropriate to its specificity and the will of its population. His party has ruled the Autonomous Region of Madeira for more than 40 years and, however, in these four decades, has been engaged in doing useful work in some cases, but also, many of them, perfectly useless, have not kept the resources for some important matters, as is the case, for example, of the hospital, and has created a debt, the result of a completely unsustainable development. The honourable Member has provided some examples that should have been cautioned in this development model advocated by the SDP in Madeira and, from my point of view, these issues are presented here today because Madeira's PSD did not make the right choices. Between 2000 and 2010 the Regional Government had over EUR 20 billion between European funds, regional budget, transfers from the State budget and a hidden debt that called into question the future of its citizens. Of this package of EUR 20 billion, EUR 750 million was spent on development societies, mostly in works that are useless, some are abandoned, others were destroyed because they were built in the wrong place, such as the Marina do Lugar de Basso, and others were transformed into hotels and passed into private exploitation. Therefore, I think it would be more honest than Mr Deputy, rather than pointing his finger to the Socialist Party, as he did here, to do an act of contrition and stress the importance of the hospital being chosen for projects of common interest and, moreover, the Government is still paying for the disaster of the last flood.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u159	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission. It has 2 minutes to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u160	Of course, Madam President. The question that I am leaving is whether or not I think the way this subject puts can weaken the defense of autonomy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u161	To reply, Mr Paul Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u162	Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking the questions put by the honourable Members. Mr Ernesto Ferraz and Mr Luís Vilhena. In fact, I answer both at the same time, because they are naturally tuned, and I am not surprised. Mr. Ernesto Ferraz said that my speech was a set of nothing and Mr. Luís Vilhena said it was a useless intervention. Well, what I brought here, to the Assembly of the Republic, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, was very simple: to demonstrate how we govern and how you govern. The way we rule in the Autonomous Region of Madeira is as follows: first, there are no captivations in the area of health. It is because there is an area in which you know perfectly well that there are no captivations in Madeira is in the area of health. For you know exactly how national reality is. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u163	The second question has to do with day care and birth. Anyone at least responsible in this country knows that this is a huge challenge the country has. For in Madeira we have reduced the values of the breeding grounds by 40 %. Did you guys do something similar in the rest of the country? [[Nothing!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u164	They didn't! Are you saying that this is useless? What's a hand full of nothing? Sir, let's talk about economic growth. Do you know where we're growing more in the country? In Madeira! Mr. Deputies, rest assured that I am not going to talk about the past. I'm going to talk about December 19, 2018 and remember the news of the day to see the reality of our country. It's not a fantasy movie I'm gonna talk to you about. Let us see: « Huge social challenge». Is it true or not that we have the streets full of social challenge to your government? It's true! Is it true or not that we have a fall in economic growth? [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]] Mr. Deputies, that's the reality. You are living a fantasy film and the reality of the country has nothing to do with the fantasy film that you bring to this Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u165	We have protest in the streets, we have ill public services — I mean, for example, the National Health Service. Do you have any doubts about this? Mr Member, if you do not want to hear the Social Democratic Party talk about the national health system, at least listen to your former minister, who was the first to acknowledge that there is no investment in the National Health Service a few days ago. It was a criticism made by the gentlemen, it wasn't for us. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]] We have the strikes, we lack growth. Mr President, I do not know if you know what the International Monetary Fund has said about Portugal. Do you know what Banco de Portugal said yesterday about Portugal? You don't know everything and what you don't want to know makes you feel you don't know, but the Portuguese know exactly what you're thinking. Sir, do you remember the thefts in Tankos? Whose responsibility was this irresponsibility? On the fires, do you remember the lack of help? Do you remember the issue of Borba? Do you remember the question of the INEM helicopter? Do you know what this is? It's the failure of the state where he was most precise. It's your responsibility! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u166	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Neves, I welcome you for having brought up a relevant issue, which has to do with autonomy and the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u168	It has nothing to do with Tanks!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u169	It will be about Madeira that I will ask you a question and that I will follow my request for clarification. The honourable Member made a sort of balance sheet of more than 40 years of governance. I give you the courage of this task, bearing in mind that, in addition to being very difficult to summarize this governance in 6 minutes, however perfect it may be, it will always have its good parts and its less good parts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u170	What a sympathy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u171	With some sympathy, as Mrs Mariana Mortágua said, I would not say that the PSD / Madeira does differ, but I note that it is different in relation to times not as far as this, in particular in the dialogue it has established with the opposition, in particular with the greater party of the opposition, which in this case is the CDS. in this respect, I wanted to point out that, in this State budget, the PSD had a different position in relation to this part a few years ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u172	That's the good part!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u173	..., having dialogued with the greater party of the opposition, the CDS, and, as the President of the CDS / Madeira, Rui Barreto says, it was possible to make a policy useful — useful for people, useful for the Maderians. For example, on a proposal from the CDS, it was possible to reduce the price of social passes, which in some cases allowed the Macedonians to save more than 1000 € ; it was possible to reduce IRC for companies over the first 15 000 € of taxable profit ; it was possible to promote and defend regional products within the public service provided to the Maderians. Therefore, we note this different stance from the PSD, which has already produced its fruits by enabling a better life for the Maderians. But, Mr President, we have some criticisms — and differences, certainly — about certain works and the excess of works that will have been done by the previous PSD / Madeira Government. Some of these works are very questionable, others are indisputably useless and others are still indisputably useful, but worse than not doing any work is not doing any work. When we talk about Madeira, the great news is that we do not have Mr. Carlos Pereira for 47. at the same time, to promise the construction of Madeira hospital, without that project even came out of the paper.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u174	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u175	That moment, in fact, we did not have, but this is the only way to maintain consistency: it is that Mr Carlos Pereira keeps the posters talking about Madeira's hospital, but the Government of Mr Carlos Pereira does not maintain the commitment to the hospital. I conclude, Madam President, by asking Mr Paulo Neves the following: do you not think that there are those who, like Mr. Carlos Pereira or the President of the Funchal Municipal Chamber, make a lot of noise at Funchal saying that he is making a noise on the table on the continent and then, when he gets to the continent, approve the Budget and be quiet? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u176	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u177	Mr President, Mr Paulo Neves, we have found that you have just fired the start for the election campaign for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which, as you know, will take place next September. Since the PSD, in the last elections, was four votes to lose the absolute majority, the insurance died as an old man and therefore Mr. Deputies is beginning with all this advance to launch the pre-election campaign. But do it in the wrong place, because, obviously, it makes sense for the electoral campaign for the Autonomous Region of Madeira to be held there and in debate with the people of that region, without prejudice to the honourable Members. Members elected by Madeira, with all their legitimacy, can bring here the problems of the region. Mr. Paulo Neves, come here to talk about indebtedness to the Autonomous Region of Madeira is to talk about rope in hanging houses. [[PCP laughter.]] Indeed, for many years, the problem of the indebtedness of Madeira was a question of national debate. In fact, it is interesting that you apologize for what the Government of the Republic has done before you saying that it has led the country to bankruptcy. Well, then what about the double PAEF ( Economic and Financial Adjustment Programme ) that the PSD/CDS government imposed on the Autonomous Region of Madeira? It is because if a troika bothers many people, in the case of the Republic, two troikas disturb much more, which is what you imposed on the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u179	It is interesting to think that it took Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho to abandon PSD leadership so that a PSD leader was allowed to go to the Lake Floor party, where, in fact, it was very interesting to hear an eminent figure, a historic leader of the Madeira / Madeira PSD and leader of the Madeira Regional Government, to blame Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho saying of him what Maôme does not say about cough! [[PSD protests.]] It is therefore very significant that Mr Paulo Neves bring this issue here. Mr Member, in order to defend the interests of the people of the Autonomous Region of Madeira in the Assembly of the Republic, you know that you can count on the CFP. With regard to what we believe is fair to defend for Madeira, you know that you can count on the CFP, you know of the proposals we have made, including in this Budget, concerning the construction of the Madeira hospital, in which we believe that it should be assumed as a project of interest of the Republic and not only of the Region, that is, it should be recognised as a project of national interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u180	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u181	I will finish, Madam President. You know that we did not lack solidarity when people had to be hit when the flood and fires occurred a few years ago, you know that we are defending a fair regional finance law. Therefore, Mr. Member, in order to defend Madeira's legitimate interests, they may count on us ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u182	Mr António Filipe, I am sorry, but we need to be stricter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u183	...for demagogy, they won't count on us. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u184	To reply, Mr Paul Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u185	Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Mr Nuno Magalhães and Mr Antonio Filipe asked me the questions. Mr António Filipe said that I have already given my start to the election campaign for the next regional elections. I don't know if I took my start, but I want to tell you that during the four years of governance, we are always thinking about the final assessment. He receives advice from a person who has great consideration for himself: he also begins to work, Mr. It is that the latest surveys carried out in Madeira point to the disappearance of the CFP of the regional Parliament. So if I were you, I would follow my example to see if the Communist Party's bench is also kept in the Madeira Parliament. On the issue that Mr Nuno Magalhães raised, the one of the 40 years of government in Madeira, I would like to say that I have even taken care of the 11 election victories of our party in the Madeira regional elections in this Chamber. That's 11! And always with an absolute majority! But if I didn't have almost a lack of modesty, I wouldn't talk about the 11th, I'd talk about the 49 wins. If we add up all the electoral victories of the Democratic Social Party in Madeira, it is not 11 — the regionals are 11, but we have also won all the others — it is 49. This is to tell you that we are very proud of these election victories.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u186	That's desperate in Madeira!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u187	Mr Nuno Magalhães, there are good things and bad things, as is evident, in 40 years of governance. We have reached an understanding with the CDS in the regional Parliament, and he did very well to remember, in this Chamber, the example that has been the governance of the Social Democratic Party by listening to the opposition parties, as is the case with the CDS, which naturally brought added value to the regional Parliament in the discussion of the regional budget. We have no difficulty in accepting this; on the contrary, we commend you, because you are meeting what the Democratic Social Party has done in recent times, which is to bring more dialogue and more discussion to the regional Parliament. No one loses with it; on the contrary, those who win are even the Maderians. Madam President, allow me to finish by drawing the attention of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, for one thing. I do not know whether you are aware of the results we have had in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, but just to have an idea, I would like to point out that the Regional Account has had a positive balance, and that is already going on in the fifth consecutive year; taxes have fallen, as a result, always do not fall in one year and rise in the other, not every year, taxes have dropped in Madeira ; debt has been reduced, and there are no financial fantasies or engineering, there is no exchange in debt, no, in Madeira, in fact, debt is reduced; and it has registered in the Autonomous Region of Madeira one of the largest national growths. I believe that no one has any doubt about what it is like to govern "social-democrat" in Madeira and what it is to govern "PS" here at national level. The results show the differences! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u188	We will continue with the political statements. Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor on behalf of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service ( SNS ) was created 40 years ago and designed to provide answers for the right to health of Portuguese. The current law of the National Health Service, approved in 1990, had a long duration of 28 years and only a review in 2002. The Portuguese defend the National Health Service and yearn for its strengthening and updating. The Portuguese cry for the fulfilment of the constitutional text in its article 64. o. The Constitution assumes the responsibility of the State « to ensure the right to health protection », « to ensure the access of all citizens irrespective of their economic condition, to the care of preventive, curative and rehabilitation medicine » and « to discipline and control business and private forms of medicine, articulating them with the SNS. Last week, he introduced in this Parliament a bill of law from the Government, which aims to pass a new health-based law in order to comply with and enforce the constitutional text. So first of all, I would like to congratulate the Government on this proposal, which defends the right to health and the vision that the Portuguese have of the SNS. This is a bill that aims to be the pillar of the humanist vision of the SNS that was in the genesis and matrix of Antonio Arnaut, at the same time that aims to bring to the debate and the construction of the final text all those who are defenders of the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The proposal that we now have in our hands, keeping the thread of the initial law — a National Health Service universal, generally and tends to be free of charge — aims to respond to the challenges that the SNS faces in this early century. It is a document that makes the synthesis and orientation, as is appropriate for a basic law, with a generalist character, a document that aims to be the guarantor of the stability of the system, regardless of political ideology. The Commission, whose work this bill emanates, has heard hundreds of entities and individuals, has put its proposal into public discussion for several months and has received the contribution of all those who have truly cared about this subject before and now. The Government, aware of all that has been discussed, summarized a proposal that, as can be read in the explanatory statement, the new basic health law should « resist the passage of time », i.e. perennial, and present itself « intentionally concise, seeking that its programmatic content does not unnecessarily restrict the executive role of each government ». Thus, this bill adopts the transversality of health policies assumed by all international bodies to all governmental action, making it clear that health policies become focused on the citizen; it addresses social changes so that the right to health can be guaranteed in all phases of life — promotion, prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, continued care, palliative care, both in mental health, or in occupational health, and informal caregivers, through new care models that work in the network and in an articulated way. This bill aims to strengthen the role of the State while ensuring health protection and reiterates cooperation with external health care providers in addition and when needs determine. In the path of the modernisation of the SNS, this bill aims to strengthen the autonomy of the management and accountability of the SNS units, defines a multi-annual investment plan that safeguards the needs and an integrated vision of the SNS, based on objective and quantifiable criteria for its financing, and establishes a progressive evolution of mechanisms of full dedication to the exercise of public functions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at this stage, the work is here and now in Parliament. That is why it is our highest responsibility to take you to the right port. in this debate, we want to add around this bill all those who defend the SNS — politicians, doctors, nurses, professional orders, users, citizens, all. It is important to respond to the appeals of this vast majority of Portuguese people who have adopted, adopted, either and assumes that the SNS is theirs and wants to defend it, making it clearly up to the humanist vision of Antonio Arnaut. So we want to take on Parliament's responsibility here and now, updating the National Health Service for over 30 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u190	Mrs Jamila Madeira, you have signed up to ask for clarification, four Mrs. Members of the PSD, BE, PCP and CDS-PP respectively. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u191	Madam President, I shall, together, respond first to the requests for clarification by two Members. Members and then those of the other two.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u192	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u193	Madam President, Mrs Jamila Madeira, I thank you for your speech. After listening to Mr António Sales just a short time ago, I was wondering why about two months ago, the Minister of Health was dismissed if everything was going so well. But, even today, one hour ago, we attended Mrs Jamila Madeira's intervention here, recognizing that we have a National Health Service that does not meet the challenges of the Portuguese and does not place the citizen at the center of the system. I still had a little hope, Mrs Deputy, which, being elected by the Algarve electoral circle, could justify before this House why the PS voted against the PSD proposal to finally move forward with the Algarve hospital, which was indeed a priority of socialist government in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u195	But nothing happened! [[PS protests.]] But, in order not to talk about serious problems, either from the point of view of response to users, or from the point of view of work, that we are living in the National Health Service, they want to focus on the Health Bases Act. But be clear: the Health Bases Act will not solve the basic problems that Portuguese people are living in day to day. This is a debate that is still important, but we must also remember that in 1990 a Basics Law was adopted that served perfectly for all governments to make all the reforms they wanted to make. So we will not solve the basic problems and we must not forget. She said here that the PS, through its government, listened to hundreds of entities, promoted a deep debate to create a proposal for a basic law and this new minister comes into office and what did she do with Dr. Maria de Belém's proposal? She put it in a corner and, in two weeks, prepared another proposal which has nothing to do with it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u196	So what we are asking is the following: why do hundreds of people value their contributions, who work pro bono, when they simply did not include these contributions? And the criticisms are many: they speak in investment plans, but we have ex-Minister Adalberto Campos Fernandes saying that there is no investment in health; and we have formerMinister Ana Jorge saying that this law of bases does not meet the needs of the country. You have excluded the status of informal caregivers from the basic law, you promote the exclusivity of health professionals, but without saying how they will achieve certain objectives, and, when they speak in the private sector, what you say is that the private sector becomes a temporary resource. [[However, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u197	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u198	I will finish, Mr. President. The question is: does the state, with the resources parks it has, build the more than 2000 continuous care beds? Will the State tell the social sector—and you were the ones who told you to invest in continued care—to stop investing? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, even to finish, I must say the following: the Socialist Party is proud to be the founder of the National Health Service, but it will leave the legacy of being the party that began its destruction. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u199	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Left Block would like to welcome the presentation of the Government's bill, stating that the proposal of the Left Block, which results from a work by Antonio Arnaut and João Semedo, had been waiting since June of this year for this presentation. Therefore, it is good to record the presentation of this diploma, because now, yes, we are in a position to make the discussion. The current Health Bases Act of 1990, which is the PSD and the CDS, has always been, and continues to be, a problem, in particular a problem for the National Health Service and for users, because the PSD and CDS Bases Act – and, by the way, PSD and CDS continue to defend that it is so – has released health to business. The basic law of the PSD and the CDS has bleeding the National Health Service! He's been bleeding from the National Health Service! Therefore, we realize why they are currently so concerned about a new basic law: it is because they fear that a new basic law will close this portal of resource bleeding from the National Health Service for the private. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But let's rest, ladies. Members, because what we have to discuss here is what best safeguards users, it is not what best safeguards the economic groups which, so often, come here represent and by whom, so many times, come here to speak. [[Congratulations from BE.]] There is a need for a clear separation between the public and the private, no doubt at all, as much as it costs the PSD and CDS-PP. We read the proposal put forward by the government and we say that it is ambiguous, that it is not enough! We therefore ask the Socialist Party whether, now, in Parliament's time and in Parliament's discussion of the basic law, it is available to make it clear that the private is merely complementary to the public. We want to clarify this proposal: it is not cooperation, it is complementarity; it is not a relationship of cooperation, it is a relationship of complementarity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u201	What matters are people!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u202	It is necessary to eliminate public-private partnerships and therefore we ask the Socialist Party, if it is now Parliament's time to discuss the basic law, it is also available to clarify what the Government's proposal says. It is said in this proposal that management is public — and we agree — but soon a parenthesis is opened to say that it can be attributed to private people, which does not seem to make great sense, because management is public — point! These are the fundamental questions to which the Socialist Party must answer right now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u203	In reply, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u204	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite and Mr Moisés Ferreira for their questions. This bill is a synthesis of the widespread support of the Portuguese to the National Health Service and therefore it is good to make clear the following: the Portuguese, either left or right, have manifested, and have expressed vehemently, that they want a National Health Service strong, structured and well supported in the dynamics that society needs today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The idea of the genesis of the National Health Service is a universal service, general and tendentially free of charge, and it is in this message that this law of bases is supported. It is a good basic law and, in order to do and to really play that good role as a basic law, it must be a common denominator, and that is what we are going to build here in Parliament. So to Mr Baptista Leite, who has only been concerned to realize his failures — which is no longer a very positive sign, something that has not been done in the PSD Government — and is limited to pointing out what has not yet been done in the Government of the Socialist Party (but we will get there! ) , what we want to say is that anyone who comes who comes for good and comes to defend the National Health Service, who comes to work with us the position that the Portuguese want, either on the left or on the right. Finally, to defend the National Health Service. This is the message and this is our duty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This law presents itself as the one who defends the margins of this river, which is the interest of the Portuguese, which demarcates them and, in addition, assumes that there will be other proposals of law, other more volatile elements, which will deal with other valences and other themes, which have not been incorporated into the proposal of basic law, but which have not been forgotten, are here. It is not true that, for example, the status of informal caregivers is not in the proposal; it is there! Now, it's not in the regulatory form, not even in the way it's implemented. This is a process that follows... We cannot "dry out the baby with the bath water"! On the issue of multi-year planning, investment and financing, which defines and defines how it should be invested in the National Health Service, so important for its sustainability, where it is defined and clarified the complementarity of the private with regard to the public, so important that this law of bases wants to safeguard, strange that the PSD has not said anything. But we hope that he will still say and, as I said, whoever comes for good, so we expect the PSD to come to this debate, because necessarily the majority to support this basic law should be as broad as possible and we would also like to see the PSD really defending the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u205	To ask for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u206	Mr President, Mrs Jamila Madeira, allow me to make a correction: effectively, the genesis of the National Health Service is not what Mrs Deputy said; the genesis of the National Health Service is universal, general, free of charge and fully public management. It was indeed the law of 1990 and the amendments to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic that allowed and imposed the moderate rates. In fact, it is remarkable that the honourable Member is here to say that what matters is that this bill, which the Government has handed over to the Assembly of the Republic, aims to strengthen the role of the State. It is that the role of the State, in the understanding of the CFP, is made by way of, for example, a wholly public management, but the proposal that the Government presented in the Assembly of the Republic opens the door, clearly, to which the management of the establishments of the National Health Service continues to be made by private management. What is required, Mrs Deputies, is indeed the end of public-private partnerships, what is clearly required is what you did not say, but what was important to say: what is needed is to recover the genesis of the National Health Service — general, universal and free — and this implies, for example, the end of the moderate rates, which we also do not see in the proposal that the Government has put forward here. The honourable Member said that what is wanted and what is contained in the Government's proposal for a law on the relationship with the private sector is cooperation. No, ma'am! What needs to be done is, in fact, a clear separation between the public and the private sector. So, what the CFP proposes in its draft law is that there is an appeal in addition to the private sector and the social sector, while — I quote, while Mrs Deputy — the National Health Service does not have the capacity to respond. Therefore, the way that needs to be done is to strengthen the National Health Service so that it can be able to respond in all valences, in all specialities and in all levels of care. Mrs Deputies, the question that I leave to you is this: follows the analysis that the CFP does — and that takes place until the intervention that the PSD and other sectors of right-wing policy have made, in which they call for convergence between the PS and the PS — that the National Health Service will never be defended with the convergence between the PS and the PSD, and that only, effectively, a break with this convergence is that it will allow to safeguard and strengthen the National Health Service? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u207	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate Mrs Jamila Madeira for bringing to debate today this issue of the Basics Law of the National Health Service, which, for us, is very relevant. The CDS has no doubt as to which side it is. in defending and maintaining the protection of the access of all Portuguese to health services, we are sure that we must go further and make a new law of foundations aimed at the twenty-first century, which does not become enclosed in ideological prejudices and that effectively promotes better access to health by Portuguese, without looking at what is unfortunately happening at this moment. It is that, at present, the National Health Service does not respond to the needs of Portuguese people, pushing them, particularly the most disadvantaged, to services that respond more quickly and increase the costs of families with health. In fact, what we have are very serious problems, that your government and the banks that support it persist, with a huge social insensitivity, in not seeing, being dissociated from reality and now wanting to make believe that it is the release of a new health-based law that will solve what today afflicts the Portuguese. Now it is to the Portuguese that you have to give an answer, because they have no reason to rely on socialist governance, with what we are seeing happening to health in Portugal. I would like to say to you, Madam Member, that I do not know exactly what basic law is that you referred to in your political statement. It is that the hard work that has been done, with transparency, we agree or not, going to meet what was consensualized, as to the nature of a basic law, was completely truncated, went to the trash and we have a minimalist version. I don't think it was really that version that the honourable Member was referring to at the top of that rostrum.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u209	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u210	I shall conclude, Mr President. We therefore have reason to be concerned, like the Portuguese, when we see three former Ministers of Socialist Health condemning the version that came here to Parliament. In conclusion, what I would like to ask you, Madam Member — and why do we really have reasons to say that health is not a priority for your Government — is the following: which basic law is, after all, speaking about this or the previous one? What basic law are you talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u211	In reply, Mrs Jamila Madeira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u212	Mr President, Mrs Carla Cruz and Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, thank you for your questions. I want to make it absolutely clear that this is a bill that emanates from the spirit of what the Portuguese really want: a true National Health Service. This bill comes from listening to and listening to Portuguese people, from a number of contributions. There are no two proposals, there is only one proposal. This proposal is clear and defends the National Health Service... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that the Portuguese clearly said they wanted, when they created a majority in this Parliament that invested in the SNS, which re-invested in the SNS and allowed to restore the EUR 1 billion that you cut when you were in the government. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It is a proposal for a basic law that now updates and responds to this same feeling: the feeling of anyone who wants a model of sustained and sustainable, multi-annual funding, so that the SNS does not have the type of ad hoc cuts and beyond the troika, which you have promoted, nor the debirth of the National Health Service, in exchange for a private agenda. For us, with this basic law, the private is suppletive, does not compete with the State, works alongside or complementary in case of need. Therefore, Mrs Carla Cruz, we see no harm in coexistence with the private, but we want a public SNS, strong, tends to be free of charge, universal, for all Portuguese. That's what the Portuguese ask, don't ask anything else! [[P.S.'s applause.]] They do not ask for the return to the PSD government / CDS-PP, which disbanded, dismantled and wanted to sell hospital to the hospital of those we had in the SNS. We're rebuilding. Yeah, it's hard! Yeah, that's not enough! Yes, we still have a reinforcement of 585 million for 2019! Yes, it is a first step, but it is a great and important step, that the Portuguese see with great pride and that they will recognize throughout all this work that will be done here in the discussion of the proposed health-based law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u213	For a political declaration, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A new law was voted in a working group yesterday and confirmed in the Commission today, which recognizes the rapid wear of classical or contemporary dancers. This process has been for decades. Since the mid-1990s the dancers of the National Dance Company (CNB) have been fighting for this regime. It may not be obvious, but dance is not just a beautiful show. When practiced as a profession, dance is an extreme physical and psychological requirement and requires rigorous discipline, delivery and training. The dancers have short careers and almost a third ends them abruptly due to an incapacitating injury. Because they start dancing very early, dancers have a great deal of expertise, which gives them many skills in this area, but they have shorter academic paths and great difficulties of professional conversion. Presently, dancers and dancers can already access the reform from 45 years old, but with penalties so great that they would take well more than half of their pension. at age 55, up to which they would have to work to access the reform with less penalties, no one is already a classical dance dancer. In addition to the social security scheme being inadequate, a specific mechanism for vocational reintegration has never been created, nor has adequate medical care been guaranteed. The Block has been accompanying this issue since it exists. In our first legislation—at the time, with two Members, Francisco Louçã and Luís Fazenda—we presented, in dialogue with the workers of the National Dance Company, a project to create a special social security and professional reintegration regime. Now, following a joint work between various parties, this regime will finally see the light of the day. More than a win of the Block or any other party, it is a victory of the dancers and the dancers. They and they are happy! [[Congratulations from BE.]] In the joint work carried out in this Parliament, it was possible to move forward in five dimensions: firstly, ensuring compulsory insurance for accidents at work corresponding to its profession, because until now the insurance available to the dancers of the National Dance Company was equivalent, for example, to an office worker, which is absurd and absolutely inadequate; Second, by ensuring a system of access to the disability pension and the repair of the damage resulting from work accidents, taking into account the particularities of the profession, the physical requirement, the risk of injuries, the wear and tear, in particular through a specific disability table; Thirdly, ensuring that clinical follow-up and rehabilitation by a specialist physician is mandatory, which seems obvious, but is not guaranteed; Fourthly, in addition to access to pre-reform, the new law provides for professional conversion mechanisms for dancers of the National Dance Company, where the dancer or dancer ceases to be able to carry out his activity, because of wear or, then, from the age of 45, the conversion mechanism that happens in particular, but not only because of the possibility of, in accordance with his own and without loss of rights, placing at the service of other State bodies, notably cultural and educational, the skills and experience of the dancers ; Fifthly, the law will establish a special professional qualification mechanism, capable of crediting the professional experience of the dancer or dancer to pursue studies and to obtain the degree in dance. It also provides for the application of the special system of access to higher education which already exists for high-income athletes. It is a measure of elementary justice for those who started early, for those who have dedicated themselves exclusively, exclusively and intensely to dance, for those who have worked early, and for those who, when forced to stop, face the difficulties resulting from this course. The approval of this law on wear and reconversion of dancers will take place about one month after we have been able to approve, in this House, the recognition of the rapid wear for the workers of the quarry and the workers of the mining fields. Last Sunday, I was with Deputies Catarina Martins and Maria Manuel Rola at a luncheon that brought together hundreds of workers from the rocks of Marco de Canaveses and Penafiel, to which they invited us. As in the case of dancers, recognizing the specificity of this work, recognizing the weariness of this profession, in a sector where one dies by professional accident five times more than the average, was an act of justice and one of the measures that we can take more pride in this legislation. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In Portugal, there are too many people working under harsh conditions, with low wages, too long schedules, without the protection it deserves, without being valued in what it does. The good example of the demands of the workers of the prairies, of the lavers and, now, of the dancers confronts us with the demands of other workers. We do not forget that this Parliament will soon discuss the recognition of the wear and anticipation of the age of reform for disabled workers. And we do not forget that about two years ago projects are being discussed in this Parliament to recognise the weariness and penosity of shiftwork. There are nearly 800 000 people working on shifts in transport or in trade, in call centres or in industry, in communications or in hotels. They are people who work in shifts, with a broken sleep, without being able to properly follow their children, without knowing when they have a weekend, with their lives on their own clock. Responding to these workers, after we have answered the dancers and the dancers, must now be the priority. It is a priority for the Block and we hope that it will be a priority for the majority and for Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u215	Mr José Moura Soeiro, four Mrs have written for clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. Do you intend to respond in what way?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u216	Mr President, I shall, together, first respond to requests for clarification from two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen and then those of the other two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u217	You then have the floor, Mrs Carla Sousa, from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we thank the Left Block very much for bringing this issue to debate, because in fact Parliament has made history. The approval of the final text of the scheme concerning the classical or contemporary dancer profession was a requirement and a fair aspiration of these professionals, claimed for more than 25 years and for which the necessary parliamentary consensus had never been found. This consensus allowed the working group to never break the bridges of dialogue among all, although we know it was the negotiation on the left that allowed the final text to be approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u219	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u220	The Socialist Party is proud of the preponderant role it has played in this negotiation. The law structure that the PS presented was, in fact, the proposal voted this morning, and so would have to be, because it was not only the most enforceable and comprehensive, but also the one that makes it possible to extend the law to dancers who are not only those of the National Dance Company, except for the specificities concerning professional conversion and access to higher education. But allow me, Mr President, to concentrate on the dancers of the CNB, because the State has added responsibilities before them because it hired them at the moment when they were special, at the height of its strength and capacity, and it was very important that we defend them in times of fragility. This proposal protects them at times of physical incapacity, which are more frequent than we would like and which come from the specificities of their work, ensuring them specific insurance, repairing damage arising from accidents at work and, above all, allowing them, at a crucial moment and which never seems appropriate, the moment when they fire the stages, a range of opportunities for their professional conversion and conditions for a dignified future and their choice. Mr. José Soeiro, we are all pleased! We should address this problem to the professional dancers working in this country. Having said this, the Socialist Party cannot fail to have a special word of appreciation for the CFP because it presented a proposal on which we worked and of which we kept many of the suggestions presented. I would also like to thank the commitment of the Minister of Culture, Graça Fonseca and the former Secretary of State Miguel Honrado, who have always defended and accompanied the need to find a solution to this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u221	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Soeiro, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would also like to thank you for bringing here the theme of the dancers, but also that of the fishermen and other rapidly worn-out professions. This debate enables us, on the one hand, to highlight the one who was the joint work that we tried to establish as a working group, always considering that what was important was to try to solve a problem of injustice, of course recognized, mattered much more than to say 'we did' or 'others who did', as the Socialist Party did here, by claiming that the negotiation was mostly on the left—but we will already be there.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u223	All right! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u224	This debate also allows us to clarify some misconceptions here. And I would like you to help us clarify these misconceptions. First of all, he referred to the specific accident insurance — it is true, we also praise and we want to follow this safeguard — the specific disability table, specialized medical assistance, i.e. subjects, all of them covered by the proposal that the PSD, together with the CDS, presented to this House and that we are very pleased that they are in fact enshrined in the final diploma. But then we talked about the question of professional conversion, and at this point I would like you to help us clarify what the Socialist Party Member said about the fact that it was the left-wing negotiation that allowed this conversion. It is whether or not it is true that the professional conversion which the Socialist Party presented—and attention that the Socialist Party did not have an original proposal, made proposals for amendment to a proposal put forward by the Portuguese Communist Party! — was the worker's assignment to the Public Administration exclusively without having any words to say about his own professional conversion? And it is or not true that it was the feasibility of PSD and CDS, because we do not have ideological blindness, and also the Left Block, of a proposal from the PCP, which allowed to add to professional conversion the possibility, rather social-democrat, not to tell where these workers have to go, but to guarantee greater amplitude so they can choose, within what their values are? Is it not true that it was not the left-wing negotiation that enabled the feasibility of the CFP proposal on professional conversion, because the Socialist Party has led this proposal? I would also like to leave a note on this issue of misconceptions and rapid wear. Is it not true that it was the Socialist Party which led, at the head of the State budget, with regard to the tax benefits of IRS (tax on income of natural persons), the proposal submitted by the Left Block on the issue of rapid wear? And it is not true that, even though the PSD has made the Block proposal viable, which it considered misleading, but which, more importantly than everything else, recognized the necessary resources, the Left Block has led our proposal by saying that it then recognized the right of dancers to reform with regard to rapid wear, which was already covered by the law since 1999?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u225	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u226	The proposal from the Left Block was approved, which resulted in a saving of palms from all over the left, but, in fact, it added nothing strictly. Is it not true that the Left Block has led to the pre-reform regime that PSD and CDS have proposed here? This was the will of both the workers and the National Dance Company, because it not only ensured their sustainability,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u227	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u228	... but also those in whom the state had committed itself to give the best training we had to date as a contemporary dancer of classical dance. Is it not true that the Left Block led our proposal and presented a proposal that did not strictly add anything?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u229	Mrs. Member, did you hear the call from the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u230	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President, it was not the negotiation on the left, it was the non-ideological blindness that allowed to safeguard a regime that had long been needed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u231	You have the floor to answer, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u232	Mr President, Mrs. Carla Miranda, we are both in the port. Let me remind you that it was precisely in Porto, in Rivoli, in 1977, that the National Dance Company made its first presentation and that more than 40 years later we had a problem to solve and social protection and professional conversion to ensure workers who are dancers of a national company with a very specific role and with a central responsibility of the State. I would like to tell you that the Socialist Party did not indeed have a proposal when we made the debate here in plenary, and therefore we salute the Socialist Party for having understood — after other parties have put forward proposals — to be part of this work, to build a solution together. It has certainly been important for all of us to be able to reach a good port — not in all respects, in our opinion, because there are obviously aspects of the Left Block proposal which, unfortunately, have not been approved — with a project that responds to workers, dancers and dancers. Ms. PSD Member Joana Barata Lopes, on PS positions, the PS will respond. The positions of the Left Block are known: we defend the various aspects that are in the law, our votes are known. It is very important that there is a job insurance that responds to the dancers—as, for example, they already have high-income athletes—because the dancers did not have an insurance capable of responding to the specificity of their profession. It is very important that you have moved on to the issue of disability pensions. We believe that it is a good proposal for the specific disability table. We will see how it will be regulated by the government which, I believe, has 90 days to do so. The issue of clinical follow-up is very important. It is central to the question of professional conversion and we believe that the approved solution makes sure that there are several possibilities. Professional qualification is very important. Our proposal was different, we thought that the degree should be automatically conferred on the dancers' experience. It was not exactly this proposal that has passed; however, we believe that these measures are important. We think it was possible to have gone further in the field of reforms. We had a different proposal on old-age pensions, but we think that a very important step has been taken here. It's the school thing that's on its way. There's a compromise on an experiment lab. We'll see what that results in. But what I would like to point out is that the example of what has been done, of the justice of recognition in relation to dancers and dancers, is an example of what needs to be done in recognition of the wear of workers. As I said, the Block has negotiated the inclusion in the State budget of the question of stone workers. We have already managed to extend this regime to workers of extraction, lavaries and transformation of stone, but we also need to respond to workers in shifts. This is, for us, a priority for the next working period here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u233	We moved on to the second group of requests for clarification. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Soeiro, I would like to congratulate you on the subject of the debate in the plenary session of the European Parliament. I begin by greeting the dancers' struggle. In fact, over the course of more than 26 years, these workers had an ongoing struggle to defend their rights for better working conditions. It has already been said here that the characteristics of this professional activity, the rapid wear, the risk of injuries that may affect their professional activity and, therefore, the fact that the Assembly of the Republic has approved a regime that guarantees a set of rights we consider to be very positive. It is also positive, and we cannot leave here to mention, the intervention that has been made over several years, in particular by the CFP, with regard to these workers in particular, the dancers. In fact, the decree that will be issued by the Assembly of the Republic was based on the initiative presented by the CFP, but the issues relating to workers' rights and working conditions are of great importance to the CFP not only for them but also for all other workers. This is a battle in which we are present. It is fair to fight these dancers and there was an urgent regime that would encompass retirement, vocational reintegration, vocational retraining, requalification and access to higher education, decent and appropriate work insurance for the characteristics of the profession, a specific system for repairing damage. We also appreciate the fact that some of the aspects that have been approved — in particular, the pre-reform and the regime for the repair of damage to the dancers of the National Dance Company — have been extended to other professional, classical and contemporary dancers, increasing the protection and rights of these workers. We greatly appreciate the progress made in the struggle of workers, with the intervention of the CFP, and now these workers have more conditions to raise the fascia and continue to fight for their rights. We believe, however, that we could have gone further.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u235	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u236	I will finish, Mr. President. We could have gone further, but we did not go because PS, PSD and CDS did not follow the proposal of the PCP, of the creation of the dance school of the National Dance Company, which would allow the use of the experience of these professionals at the end of career and an investment in the future of the Company and the classical dance itself. The question that Mr. José Soeiro wanted to leave is whether he also accompanied the reflection and appreciation of the CFP, that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u237	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u238	... although progress has been achieved, if it would not be important to have gone even further, because we could now have the creation of the dance school of the National Dance Company. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr. President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u239	You're welcome, Mrs. Member. You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Teresa Caeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Soeiro, I would also like to congratulate you on bringing this issue to debate in the context of political statements. I must say that I agree with you and with what has already been said: in fact, these are ambitions and absolutely fair demands on the part of the dancers. The text that was reached yesterday, at the workplace, resulted in a consensus and, taking into account the words of Mrs Joana Barata Lopes, was a great result of the non-ideological blindness on the part of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u242	It was not this absence of sectarianism that we sometimes witnessed not only in situations of debate, in general, but also in the working group, and this consensus would not have been reached.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u244	Good solutions were found for work issues, for professional conversion issues, for specific disability table, for compulsory insurance with specificities for dancers. In short, all these issues that have been addressed by the honourable Member and which are reflected in the text which was approved yesterday, but which do not make the whole history of this issue and the status of the dancers. The question I am leaving, Mr President, is the following: why did the Left Block reject the proposals of the PSD and the CDS for a special pre-reform regime? I leave this to you. You made a comprehensive political statement, but you have forgotten some specifics regarding the completion of this work, which was important three decades ago and which has never been achieved in fact. Another question: why has this question not been resolved with effect from 2019?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u245	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u246	What you did, as a working group, was the successive postponement. And, Mrs Carla Sousa — particularly to the Socialist Party, which did not have its own initiative, merely made changes to the draft law of the CFP, was the contribution of the Socialist Party, and to reject, whenever possible, the proposals of the PSD and the CDS-PP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u247	It's with our government that happens, it's not with yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u248	... that, in fact, allowed early retirement without penalties for dancers from 45 years old—the result of what you did was that pre-reform can only happen without penalties if there is agreement of the employer. The honourable Member has forgotten to say that. So it's good to tell the whole story, it's good to tell everything that happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u249	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u250	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mrs Deputy, what happened was that the working group was subsequently postponed after the discussion and vote of the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u251	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u252	What does that mean? It means the law-work applies. In other words, increased expenditure, which the State and the Government would necessarily have so that it could enter into force as early as 2019, is co-ordinated because there was a successive postponement required by the Socialist Party, the CFP and the Left Block. These are the issues I leave behind. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u253	To reply, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u254	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Caeiro, certainly the commitment of all Members and Members was welcome. However, it is not too much to remember that, at least 16 years ago, the Left Block has been presenting a project, as it has now presented, and it has been successively plummeted, particularly in legislatures where the PSD and CDS had a majority and could have solved the problem. It was just now. It was only now, because only in this Parliament were the conditions, particularly parliamentarians, that made it possible to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u255	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u256	But I'm glad it was now! I'm glad the projects are now...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u257	The PS didn't take over! It has led to our proposal twice!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u258	I am glad that now, without an absolute majority on the right, without an absolute majority of the Socialist Party, it was possible to solve the problem of dancers. I would also like to say that, more than a consensus between the parties, it was possible to do this work because of the struggle of the dancers and the dancers. It was the dancers and the dancers who did it over the years—even decades! — requests to this Parliament ; which have come here many times to the Assembly of the Republic ; that they have asked them to be heard in the Committee on Labour and Social Security ; that they have made reports ; that they have given us documents on their working conditions, on the pesosity of their work, on their occupational diseases; that they have called for meetings; that they have occupied the galleries here, in Parliament, throughout legislatures, one after another. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Communist Party and of the CDS-PP allow me to health at this time the victory of the dancers and the dancers and congratulate them on their struggle, because it is an example for them and also for other workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u259	You now have the floor under Article 76 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira, of the PSD, for an individual political declaration. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have taken the decision to give up the mandate of the honourable Member and thus leave the Portuguese Parliament. I do it in a very reflective, very conscious and very free way. Along with responsibility, freedom is an essential condition for the exercise of the office of Member, and this necessarily includes the freedom to place a final point on it. That's what I'm doing now. I know that I am doing it at a delicate time, not to say even complicated, at a time when, within and outside Parliament, the need for more and more transparency in the exercise of public office is much discussed. There is certainly much to be done in this area, no one can deny it, until there is no such thing as 'transparency to more'. The opposite of greater transparency is less transparency, and this is called opacity. in the last 44 years, the Portuguese have already learned that opacity does not rhyme with democracy. But I cannot but say that the transparency and scrutiny that exist today at the end of 2018 are incomparably greater and more effective than they were when I first arrived here in 2002. I certainly deserve our democracy and our society, which have evolved a lot in this direction over these almost two decades. But also the merit of the Members themselves, who have not put themselves on the sidelines or above this requirement of scrutiny, moving themselves forward with new instruments and practices to take this democratic imperative of transparency further and further. I'm not going to hang on to examples. I am only one of whom I am very proud to have contributed to your implementation, along with two colleagues present here, Mr António Filipe and Mr José Magalhães. I am talking about the launch and implementation of the Canal Parliament. The Canal Parliament has been from its beginning and will always be, I believe, a huge door open to Portuguese society, something that our democracy can and should truly be proud of. It is an open door to journalists, to whom we must cover free, informed and free parliamentary work, and an open door to citizens, to whom we must be the constant duty of accountability. If it is true, and it is, that we have glass roofs, and we do have—just look at this monumental skylight on our heads—we also have glass walls and one of these walls is precisely the Canal Parliament. Today, largely thanks to the Canal Parliament, the Portuguese know well that the work of the Members is not limited to two afternoons and one full morning. They know that, although very important and media, this is just a small part of our function. Today, largely thanks to the Canal Parliament, Portuguese can see directly the work that Members do in the various committees, supervising the Executive, questioning ministers, state secretaries and bodies of the Public Administration, listening to personalities, specialists, institutions, asking, inquiring and ascertaining facts. Today, largely thanks to the Canal Parliament, the Portuguese from north to south of the country, the Portuguese of the islands and the Portuguese of the diaspora know well what their Members are discussing and discussing at every moment, they know their views on the different subjects, confronting their arguments in the manner of the laws. Today, largely thanks to the Canal Parliament, we have more informed, more participatory and more attentive citizens about what happens within these four walls. But the Canal Parliament is much more than the television channel of the Assembly of the Republic. The canal of Parliament is the living proof that, when it comes to defending ideals and defending the parliamentary institution, it is possible for the parties, all parties, to join in a greater objective: to fight for freedom and democracy. Only in this way was it possible to overcome the differences that naturally existed between us regarding this innovative project, at this historic moment, with this scope and magnitude. Only in this way was it possible to find points of contact, value the common denominators and reach a compromise around an idea for the Parliament Canal, about its principles, its mission, its structure, its way of functioning. Only in this way was it possible to create this powerful instrument of communication at the service of the country, of Portuguese, of democracy and of the right to information and transparency. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is therefore a time for me to say goodbye. It wasn't an easy decision. After all, there have been two hands full of years at the service of the public cause, in this central place of our democracy, where we have the great privilege and the immense responsibility to be able to change people's concrete lives for the better. I go out with some, I repeat, some feeling of duty accomplished. But I go out, above all, with the assurance that we never do too much or enough for our fellow citizens and that we are always debtors of their trust, their gratitude, a gratitude that I am extending to all the parliamentary officials who, over the years, have had the opportunity to meet and with whom I have the honour to live. They are dedicated professionals, competent, available. To all the officials of all the services they daily give the best of themselves to the Assembly of the Republic and the Country, I leave my word of deep respect and gratitude. In conclusion, I go out with the conviction that I gave at least two joys to this House: the first of these joys was when I arrived here. Most of the ladies and gentlemen. Members with whom I have shared these unique moments are no longer here and therefore cannot confirm it. Whether the second joy, which can be shared by some, or even by many of those who are here today, is the joy of seeing me leave. Even because anyone who tries to please everyone doesn't like anyone. It's life! That's right! Here you come, I say goodbye not with a grace, like some of the gentlemen. Members would probably expect, but with a poem, a poem of this larger volume of Portuguese literature, Miguel Torga. I'm talking about Travel: "It's the wind that takes me/ The Lusitanian wind. / It is this human blow / Universal/ That drowns the restlessness of Portugal. / It's this madly gentle/ That everything reaches/ Unattained. / That goes from heaven to heaven, / From sea to sea, / Until never arrive. / And it is this temptation to find me/ The richest of bitterness/ In the breaks of adventure/ Looking for me... » I will continue to see you on the Canal Parliament. See you soon! And a good Christmas to all! [[Congratulations from the PSD and the CDS, standing, with the PS Members standing, and from the PCP Members Antonio Filipe and The Greens José Luís Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u261	Thank you, sir. As I have already spoken to you personally, we will certainly all miss your speeches, your consistency and your sense of humor. It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u262	And the music!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u263	Mrs. Members, let us turn to point two of our agenda, which consists of the discussion of petition No 455 / XIII / 3. a ( João Gabriel Bargão dos Santos et al.) — Reversion of the main Military Hospital and Belém Military Hospital for the Administration of the Armed Forces, together with draft resolution No 1669 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation of the Main Military Hospital and the Belém Military Hospital as back-up hospitals in social and clinical support for military and former military personnel of the Armed Forces. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the context of a petition presented here, the Left Block followed up by a draft resolution recommending that the Government, with the reopening of the hospitals of Estrela and Belém, provide social and clinical support to the military and former military personnel of the Armed Forces. I have already taken advantage of presenting a very special greeting to a delegation of the petitioners here present. The PSD/CDS government, at the orders of the foreign troika, attacked the workers, attacked the country and, as it could not fail to be, also attacked the military condition and, in particular, the weakest, the weakest, the ones most needed: the reformed. The pretext of rationalization of resources and resources, brought together four hospitals in one: the military hospitals of the Star and Bethlehem, the Navy and the Air Force. The Star Hospital, as it is known, was handed over to the Santa Casa da Misericórdia of Lisbon and Belém went to the Portuguese Red Cross. The intention would be to create continuous and palliative care units in these hospitals, in addition to other valences, but nothing has been done so far. These hospitals are still closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u265	You must turn to your comrades!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u266	More than 400 beds have been lost. Fully equipped offices and rooms remain closed. Clinical materials are degraded.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u267	Because of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u268	The military condition, at social and clinical level, was severely affected. The Social Support Institute for Armed Forces (IASFA ), with a waiting list of more than 1500 users...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u269	Because of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u270	... cannot give the right answer in supplementary social support. We think it's a shame and a scandal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u271	It's a shame, it's!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u272	Thousands of beneficiaries are waiting and institutions and excellent materials are closed and deteriorating. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an ideology issue, it is a matter of justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u273	It's your responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u274	And the current government has done nothing about it too! in this draft resolution presented by the Bloc and which hopes that it will deserve the approval of the ladies and gentlemen. Members, we point out three essential points: that the Government provides health care and services within the SNS (National Health Service ) and social and clinical support to the military and their family aggregates, complementing services that are to be carried out at the Star Hospital and the creation of beds for the national network of continued care; that the Government considers the reopening of the hospital in Bethlehem with valences of support for various users, continuous care beds and social and clinical support for the military and their families; and that the Government enables the IASFA to provide the human resources or materials indispensable to respond to the needs of treatment and hospitalization of its beneficiaries...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u275	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u276	... in continuous care units, palliatives, or of any other medical and social nature. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u277	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners, as the first subscriber. Since the immemorial times of nationality, our military have been a cause for pride in the Portuguese. The warrior image of Afonso Henriques, the tactical-strategic spirit of Nuno Álvares Pereira, the tragic sacrifice of our military in La Lys, the sense of patriotism of our military in Ultramar are episodes of our military odyssey. Treating, caring, protecting and healing our military is a national imperative. in this sense, we understand that the rehabilitation of the main military hospitals and of Belém for the back-up services of the HFAR ( Hospital des Forces Armadas ) is justified. Not in a purely military perspective, but to implement the assumption for which they were protocoled: the creation of continuous and palliative care units, which are both necessary to increase the quality of life of the Portuguese, the former Ultramar fighters and their families, with the natural and consequent inclusion in the national network of these services. It is sensible, therefore, to evaluate this situation, but in a broader perspective, analyzing the functioning of the Armed Forces Hospital. Has HFAR given answers to the needs for which it was created? The assumptions of greater effectiveness, better rationalisation of resources and economic optimization are justified and should be explained. The Left Block, in its new bipolar staging, in which on Saturday, Sunday and Monday it continues radical and screams on the street, and in the remaining days, in the corridors of Parliament, assumes the role of well-behaved acolyte, meek and submissive of the Government — probably given the festive square, waiting for the garment in the shoe—, omits that the HFAR ( Hospital of the Armed Forces) is financially strangled by the lack of financial transfers of the IASFA (Instituto de Action Social des Forces Armadas) and the lack of investment of the Government, which prevents it from fulfilling its role, as the quality of the clinical body would allow, as well as closing the entire expansion of future infrastructure and services. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] What is at stake here is not to place wasted infrastructure at the service of the military and the Portuguese, with what we agree and what is a need. What's in issue here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a continuing practice of this government which, with its policy of captivating, degrades public health, transport, education and security services, as well as confirms the wave of strikes in these sectors. Three years and... zero! [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u279	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u280	I will now finish, Mr President. What's in issue here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the respect for our history, for the disabled of the Armed Forces, for the military and their families, that they demand that this government enable IASFA to carry out the financial transfers to HFAR, under the penalty of a Government of the Socialist Party, with the support of the radical left, not to be able to glorify the slogan that they so much like to speak, but never to realize: « Buy April! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u281	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Coelho has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words, on behalf of the Socialist Party's bench, are, of course, to greet the petitioners and tell them that the Socialist Party has the greatest respect and the greatest consideration and the whole country is naturally indebted to the enormous service the Armed Forces have provided and lend to the country, and we will always be available to you to work to find the possible solutions, the solutions that are appropriate. As far as the draft resolution of the Left Block is concerned, the Socialist Party cannot follow it. It is worth mentioning here—and, perhaps, this was omitted in the previous intervention—that the main military hospital in the Star was transferred and sold in 2015 by the government to the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon. And it is much easier to destroy than then to rest, it is also good to say this. It is much easier to destroy the National Health Service than to restore the services that have been destroyed. The State has already received, by this sale, a large amount and it seems to us that the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, which now has this hospital unit, will there install an intensive and continuous care unit of pediatric services, for which we understand, may be available to protocol with the Armed Forces a partnership in this sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u283	It was the Christmas present, destroy the SNS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u284	How many million? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u285	The sale of the Military Hospital to the Red Cross was effectively reversed, but it is in the process of surrender to the City Council of Lisbon, also for a continuing care unit, and we know that the city of Lisbon is available to protocol with the Ministry of Defence a partnership, so that the combatants of the Armed Forces can also enjoy this hospital. IASFA must have sustainability and we understand that, in the current framework of human and financial resources, it is not possible to go any further. Perhaps, in the future, this will be the case, but at this point it is not possible to go any further. So, in our perspective, we cannot follow this proposal from the Left Block either. Finally, I wanted to point out that the Lisbon Pole of the Armed Forces Hospital, located at the same location of the former Air Force Hospital, is a pole of excellence, a high quality unit that serves more than 30 medical valences, of course at the service of all the military and users of the Armed Forces hospitals. In conclusion, the Socialist Party will continue to be available to work seriously with the petitioners and users of the Armed Forces hospitals to find the best solutions. However, in the current table, you cannot even follow this draft resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u286	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party wants to begin by greeting the petitioners and highlighting three or four aspects of their petition, which it is important to highlight. The first aspect highlighted by the petitioners is the lack of continuous care for our military, a serious problem, and the lack of answers and follow-up on this concrete reality that we want to highlight here. It is also mentioned in the petition, and it should be stressed - that the Armed Forces, in the context of the merger of military hospitals, have lost about 400 beds of internment, which constitutes a loss of reserve and response capacity by the military institution to their own problems, i.e. to respond to the military and ex-military who need these continued care. The petitioners also highlight two other fundamental aspects. The Belém Military Hospital was transferred to the Red Cross and now the PSD criticizes this same option, knowing that it is responsible for this problem that was created. [[Protests by PSD Member Rui Silva.]] And it was handed over to the Red Cross for 25 years with the commitment to a continuous care unit, which does not exist. The second aspect is that the Main Military Hospital was transferred to the Holy House of Mercy, through an agreement between its Provider, Santana Lopes, and the former Defence Minister, Aguiar Branco, two well-known PSD militants —... [[PSD protests.]] ... one, in fact, is no longer the PSD, it is the Alliance, but at the time these two were responsible for the PSD, then being sold the facilities of the Main Military Hospital to the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon. And, this, in order to create what? A continuous and palliative care unit, which does not exist either, as the petitioners point out, and very well. So there are two aspects here that we want to highlight, one of which is the issue of IASFA, which matters to resolve. In fact, those who read the petition realize that there are two fundamental problems, which were created by the PSD/CDS government action: the first is that the merger of social action complements the assistance in the disease to the military, within the framework of IASFA, is a disaster that needs to be reversed. And the gentlemen. Members know that we have been alerting for the need to separate the complementary social action from the assistance in the disease to the IASFA military, separating the fields. On the other hand, the merger of military hospitals was a disaster, promoted by the PSD and now we are paying very much. And now there is a difficult problem of resolution, since these businesses were done with the Portuguese Red Cross and with the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon. So I ask the PSD Members if they have a solution to reverse them, because these businesses have created a problem for the Portuguese military. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u288	Mr João Rebelo of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for an intervention on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I apologize to the Left Block, I will concentrate my intervention on the petition, which was the first to enter. First of all, I would like to greet the 4009 petitioners in the person of the first petitioner, Major-General João Gabriel Bargão dos Santos, who I have known for many years and has been a pillar in defending these matters related to continued care and care for former combatants, post-traumatic stress and all the traumatic areas that have shaken our military. They claim the petitioners, in addition to what they announced in the title of the petition, that is, the reversal of the main military hospital and the military hospital of Bethlehem for the administration of the Armed Forces, in the specific case of the Army, the following: to provide the IASFA with the resources to respond to the needs of continued or palliative care to the military, ex-military and family; and to integrate the ex-military of the war in Africa, when needed, into continuing care units supported by IASFA. This is the proposal put forward by the petitioners here. Before referring specifically to the content of claims, I just want to leave a few more generic notes. It is important to realize that we are talking about the military health system, which has as its primary mission the support of the military, the military in the reserve and reform situation, the families of the military and the disabled in the Armed Forces. Therefore, this petition fits perfectly into the mission we are talking about, on military health. In 2008, the need to create a new organizational model that would respond more effectively and efficiently to the needs of the Armed Forces, current and future, was identified. This was therefore not an exclusive decision of the Government, which I supported in 2012, but rather a process that began in 2008, continued and was developed during our time. The need for reform between the DND ( Ministry of Defence ) was consensual, the EMGFA ( Major-General State of the Armed Forces ) and the branches of the Armed Forces, in the face of the gaps identified, in particular the low productivity by branch, measured by the number of acts practiced both in relation to the number of professionals, both in relation to costs, duplication and, in some cases, triple infrastructures, equipment and human resources and methodologies, or excessive consumption of human and material resources to achieve the same objective. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] I would like you to listen, because I have listened very calmly to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. Thus, very briefly, in the context of the reform of the SSM (military health system) the Hospital of the Armed Forces was established in the dependence of the CEMGFA ( Chief of the Military Staff), constituted by the Poles of Lisbon and Porto, in place of the five hospitals held by the branches of the Armed Forces. Subsequently, the Hospital da Militar Principal da Estrela was transferred to the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa and the Hospital Militar de Belém to the Portuguese Red Cross for the installation of continuing care units. But going to the concrete of the petition and realizing what is behind the intentions of the petitioners, and in legal terms, the same is difficult to carry out, but not impossible. But if this is not the solution, which is proposed by the petitioners, some solution must and can be found. That is why, in this sense, we will not vote against the Left Block proposal, even though we think it is not feasible, because it gives IASFA this possible...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u290	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u291	I apologize, Mr President, for being out of time, but in 10 seconds, I will finish. As you know, the military health system will have a financial deficit of almost EUR 90 million at the end of this year. The ADDN (Assistance for Military Disease) and IASFA are with very important structural problems and the solution proposed by the Left Block cannot be found in the IASFA. But it is necessary to find a solution to benefit and take advantage of the facilities currently available to ensure such support in continuous care and in other types of post-traumatic stress care, in particular the former combatants.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u292	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u293	So we're available to think about a solution. What has been said here by Mr Coelho was not bad, but a solution for these same facilities must be considered. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[At the moment, protests were made by the public present in the galleries.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u294	The public present in the galleries cannot manifest itself. Mrs. Members, let us continue the agenda with the appreciation of Petition No 356 / XIII / 2. a ( Maria Helena Rodrigues Silva et al.) — They request the adoption of measures regarding the future of Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital in Ovar, together with, in general, Resolution Projects Nos 1873 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Strengthening Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital in Ovar, 1871 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — By autonomy, reopening the emergency service and valuing the Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo ( Ovar ) and 1089 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — By the appreciation of the Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo ( Ovar ). You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to greet the more than 7,000 petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic to defend Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital in Ovar. This hospital is very important for the municipality, for the population, for the region and less response of this hospital means the overload of other hospitals, such as those of Aveiro, Santa Maria da Feira and Vila Nova de Gaia. Less response by Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo, in Ovar, translates into an increase in waiting lists and waiting time for consultations and surgeries, so it makes all the sense what petitioners have come to claim to the Assembly of the Republic. Less response was exactly what previous governments imposed on the Ovar Town Hall, the population and Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo in Ovar. For example, in 2007 a Government of the Socialist Party closed the urgency of this hospital. The former Government had on the list this hospital to deliver it to mercy and therefore passed a mandate in which it left this hospital dying, without any kind of investment, reducing, indeed, the one who was its role. More recently, there was, moreover, an unfortunate idea, to try to constitute a local health unit of Between Douro and Vouga, which would group several hospitals, several health centers, several health centers groups, and that would withdraw autonomy from the Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo. I am glad that the Left Block presented here a draft resolution, refusing the constitution of this local health unit, although it was approved and also that this idea was abandoned by the current government. What we need for Ovar and Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo, in Ovar, is not less response in the area of health, but more response. We therefore reject the local health unit between Douro and Vouga and, therefore, we now follow up on a legislative initiative, on a proposal, what are the demands and aspirations of the Ovar population, in particular that work in the hospital's operating block is carried out once and for all, to provide it with better conditions, better quality, more security for users. We know that the hospital, at this moment, already has the project for this work and even has money for that work. We need the release to begin this work and we trust that, having a unanimous response from the Assembly of the Republic in this sense, this release of the work will happen more quickly. It is also necessary to reopen the emergency service of this hospital. That is what we propose on this legislative initiative, which, of course, we hope will be approved by all Members of Parliament and by all Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u296	I have the floor for one speech, Mr José Luís Ferreira, by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u297	Mr President, my first words are on behalf of the Greens to welcome the thousands of citizens who have promoted this petition, which aims to defend the quality of the services provided by Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital in Ovar, as well as its nature of proximity, its functioning and autonomy, but always integrated into the SNS (National Health Service). In fact, as the petitioners point out, the Ovar hospital provides an incomparable service of proximity, not only to the populations of the municipality of Ovar, but also to the populations of the neighbouring municipalities. It is considered a hospital of excellence, serving the users in varied specialties, also having a wide variety of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, as well as having a unit of continuous care and an operating block. The Ovar hospital is in need of important intervention, particularly at the level of the operating block, in order to achieve the technical and safety conditions for a better and safer service to users. And as happened in many areas of the country, where permanent services or basic emergency services were closed, Ovar also lost its emergency service in 2007, which forced people to resort to the emergencies of the Hospital São Sebastião, in Santa Maria da Feira, with few accessibilitys, and creating many difficulties, especially to older people. But the closure of the emergency service, in addition to creating great constraints to the populations of Ovar, in terms of time, costs and comfort, still contributes to congestion the emergencies of the Hospital São Sebastião, often saturated and with enormous waiting times. As far as human resources are concerned, it is recalled that about 30% of their workers were, at the end of last year, with a precarious link, and many of these professionals have decades of service in this hospital, which is a clear disrespect for these workers and at nothing contributes to the quality of the provision of health services to the citizens. With the current government, the proposal for the creation of a local health unit between Douro and Vouga was presented, which would integrate Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital in Ovar. But this proposal deserved the challenge and struggle of the users of this hospital, and the express opposition of the local bodies of the municipality of Ovar, as well as of the Advisory Council of the Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo, in Ovar. In fact, this megastructure would have a huge dimension, which would quickly create difficulties in its articulation and performance, seriously compromising not only its nature of proximity, but also the response to the needs of patients and their professionals, such as the rehabilitation of the operating block, the reopening of the emergency service, or even the integration of professionals with precarious links in hospital settings. The Greens therefore present their legislative initiative, which, in our view, goes towards meeting not only the purposes that guided the submission of this petition but also the objectives that the petitioners intend.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u298	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the petitioners, as well as all the users, clinical staff and other staff of Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital in Ovar. As has already been said, this is a hospital with a sui generis administrative situation, because it is not integrated in any hospital, nor in any local health unit. Nevertheless, the problem—and what is the reason for the petition, which has exactly to do with the problem—is not an administrative problem. The hospital, despite this administrative situation, plays a very important role in the provision of health care, in a municipality with more than 55,000 inhabitants and which has specificities — which, of course, justify a health response at the time — especially those that have to do with a seasonal burden of the population in the summer, as well as the location in the Ovar municipality and in areas close to industries, some of them dangerous, which also justify a health response with capacity and proximity. This health unit belongs to the National Network of Integrated Continued Care (RNCCI), has a convalescence unit, has a number of specialties currently working and has an operating block. Therefore, you have all the conditions to be an excellent health unit. What do you need right now? As has already been said, it is necessary to reverse what the Socialist Party has done to it and to achieve what the previous government intends to do. A previous Government of the Socialist Party closed the urgency. As requested in the petition, and the CDS supports its draft resolution, the emergency service should be reopened. As has already been proven in nearby hospitals, particularly in the Hospital de São João da Madeira, the reopening of the urgency allows to reduce the pressure on an emergency service that is very, very under pressure, which is the emergency service of the Hospital São Sebastião, in Santa Maria da Feira. That is why this complaint of the petition is also addressed to us. The second request is exactly to carry out, in the operating block, the works necessary for it to be operational and with sufficient means. It is also necessary to pay attention to what is an existing valence, not to lose it and strengthen it. Thirdly, as has already been said, it is necessary to pay attention not only to those health professionals who, with precarious links, perform functions at this time in the Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo, but also to those who are needed according to the new tasks proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u300	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u301	What is intended, basically, is a good service for the population of the Ovar municipality, a good health service for the entire population of that region and solve a problem that this government created, by ending the solution that the previous government had for Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital, by ideological complex, and leaving the population without a health response. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u302	Mr Diana Ferreira has the floor for one speech by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by welcoming the petitioners and the dynamization of this petition, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, which brings a set of demands concerning Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital in Ovar. It is important to begin by saying that the Ovar hospital is not part of any hospital, and that the PCP defends that this autonomy and reality should be maintained, rejecting any path towards its possible integration into a possible superstructure that undermines the autonomy of this hospital and, as it has already been in project, the creation of a ULS(local health unit) that would integrate this hospital. The Ovar hospital has a history of providing quality health services and proximity to the populations of the Ovar municipality, but also of neighbouring municipalities, ensuring responses in a set of specialities such as Internal Medicine, Pediatrics, Cardiology, Dermatology, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Orthopedics, Urology, Otorhinolaryngology, Ophthalmology, in addition to having a continuing care unit that integrates the National Network of Continuous Integrated Cares. However, this hospital, in 2007, lost its emergency service, being the population of Ovar pushed to the emergencies of Hospital São Sebastião, in Santa Maria da Feira, and having the PCP challenged the closure of this emergency service, as well as also contested the closure of a set of services and valences over the years, which meant, yes, the removal of services and healthcare of proximity. In this hospital, it adds the known need for works in the operating block, such works with which the PS government committed itself, claiming that they would take place in the first half of 2019. The PCP defends the networking and functioning of this hospital with other units of the National Health Service, as well as the existence of the services and valences necessary to ensure quality and proximity health care, which respond to the needs of the population of Ovar and the neighbouring municipalities, without forgetting, of course, the need to strengthen health professionals and the effectiveness of workers who are still in a precarious situation. We defend that it progresses with the works in the operating block, as well as other interventions that may be necessary in the building, as well as the reopening of the basic emergency service. And we also defend, as presented in our draft resolution, that any change to the management of this hospital should involve, in addition to the local bodies, representatives of workers, user movements and the populations that are served by this hospital. Above all, the CFP has already intervened, submitted a draft resolution in October 2017, which was discussed, which was voted on in this House and which gave rise to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 270 / 2017. It is therefore important that this Resolution be fulfilled, at all its points, and the CFP will fight for this, as well as for the appreciation of Ovar hospital in all the necessary dimensions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u304	Mr António Topa, from the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the 7354 petitioners who have subscribed to Petition No 356 / XIII / 2. a, requesting the adoption of measures regarding the future of Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital, in Ovar. They accompany the present petition draft resolutions, which are also presented here for discussion and which essentially recommend to the Government the adoption of measures regarding the future of the Ovar hospital, essentially consistent with the object of the petition here present. The Ovar hospital provides an important service of proximity to about 55,000 inhabitants of the Ovar municipality and also residents of the neighbouring municipalities. The hospital has been considered excellent, serving the population in various specialties and having a variety of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, in addition to the operating block. The PSD essentially agrees with the object of the petition, namely: an important and duly dimensioned intervention of works in the area of the operating block in order to achieve the technical and safety conditions for a better and safer service to users and greater capacity and quality in its response; the reopening of the basic emergency service, closed in 2007 by a Government of the PS, having the population to use the emergency service of Hospital São Sebastião, in Santa Maria da Feira, often already saturated, also due to insufficient facilities; the maintenance of the autonomy of the Ovar hospital, not integrating it into a possible ULS of Entre Douro and Vouga, to constitute, ensuring its operation on the network with other units of the National Health Service, and respecting the deliberations of the House and the Municipal Assembly of Ovar, as well as the population, since this option of constitution of the ULS has already been made available by the government itself, and is not at the present time of the establishment of the hospital, providing its full time with the implementation of the programme of the hospital. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u306	You have the floor to close the debate, Mr António Sales, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the more than 7000 petitioners No 356 / XIII / 2. a, requesting the adoption of measures regarding the future of Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital, in Ovar, as well as the draft resolutions of the Left Block, the Green Party and the Portuguese Communist Party, whose resolutions, in general, are aligned with the object of the petition. The Socialist Party is very sensitive to the policy of proximity in the field of health, but it is also determined to ensure the safety and tranquility of the populations and, above all, to improve the quality and effectiveness of the service provided. With regard to the basic emergency service of the Ovar hospital, we believe that a fragile urgency, without necessary means that ensure the comprehensive effectiveness of the provision and therefore produce a false sense of security, is much worse than the adoption of a project that consolidates a model of great effectiveness and promotes the true link between primary care and hospital care, in order to improve the quality, effectiveness and safety of the care provided. This situation is achieved by maintaining the autonomy of the current structures, but also by assuming the territorial support of the medical-surgical emergency reference in the region, capable of ensuring network operation effectively and efficiently, in a proximity logic. Also a word of appreciation and recognition for the Board of Directors of the Ovar Hospital, which, despite all the conditionalities that the legal status of a SPA hospital (administrative public sector) confers on it, in particular in terms of contracts and agility in management, has had an inexhaustible commitment to the allocation of human resources, especially in the medical career of various specialities, capable of responding to the needs of the served population. On the other hand, I would also like to heighten its commitment and determination to launch all competitive procedures for all careers, within the framework of the regularization of PREVPAP precariouss ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ), thus resolving a situation of injustice experienced for several years by dozens of workers. We also recognize the need to sit down and announce the public contest that enables the work of remodeling and expanding the operating block, so necessary to guarantee a secure care activity in this hospital and has long been ambitious by the community and that it is only now close, with the commitment of this government, to be realized. We also welcome the protection to ensure the budgetary reinforcements necessary for the operation of this hospital, whose budget was limited when the previous PSD/CDS government attempted to transfer the management of this and other hospitals to third sector entities and which would therefore be removed from public management. In good time, the Socialist Party's government has reverted this situation! No one would forgive a responsible government if, in order to escape the short-term unpopularity, it would tolerate quality inequality under the apparent proximity layer and use outdated and insecure models for the citizen and, above all, deceivers in the false availability of resources and resources. The expectations of citizens are very important for the Socialist Party, but the guarantee of health security and the quality of service provided are fundamental to social cohesion and territorial equity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-19.u308	We are thus at the end of today's agenda. Before we finish our session, I should like to announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, beginning at 3 p.m. In the first point, the draft resolution No 824 / XIII / 2 will be appreciated. a ( PSD ) — Continental Platform, a second point. The second point comprises the general assessment of Law Projects Nos 872 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Preconception protection regime, assisted drug procreation, pregnancy, childbirth, birth and puerperium and 1034 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — The second amendment of Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March 2014 strengthening the rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth is adopted. In the third point, we will generally appreciate the Drafts of Law Nos. 928 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Assign a temporary residence visa to foreign citizens with a year of social security discounts and 1035 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Change the scheme of entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from national territory, establishing the allocation of the temporary residence visa figure to immigrant citizens with a year of social security discounts. In the fourth point, Decree-Law No 25 / 2018 of 24 April regulating the Film Law with regard to measures to support the development and protection of cinema and audiovisual activities[ Parliamentary assessments No 65 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ), 62 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ), 63 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) and 66 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ). of the fifth point shall be the general assessment of the Drafts of Law Nos 942 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Establish the Military Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals as the National Laboratory for Medicine and 1037 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Strengthening the capacity to produce medicines by the current military laboratory of chemicals and pharmaceuticals, now national laboratory of chemicals and pharmaceuticals. Finally, the sixth point comprises the general discussion of Law Projects Nos 958 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Visa the reinforcement of seismic resistance of buildings, 778 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Revokes the exceptional and temporary regime for the rehabilitation of buildings or fractions established by Decree-Law No 53 / 2014 of 8 April 2014 on seismic and other risks and 1032 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Seismic building reinforcement, including in rehabilitation works. As you know, today, immediately following, we have the Christmas snack at the Hall of the Assembly of the Republic, for which I invite all the gentlemen. Members, officials and journalists. Thank you so much and so much! The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 40 minutes.]]
