ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Let's start our work. The session is open. [[It was 9 hours and 39 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. We are in a position to begin the first item on the agenda, of which, as you know, is an urgent debate required by the PSD, under Article 74. the Regimento, about the health situation in Portugal. So let us start the debate and start by giving the floor to Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the National Health Service ( SNS) is living in a growing crisis that has to be quickly overcome. It is intolerable the postponement of consultations and surgeries for clinically inadequate times; it is unacceptable that hospital emergencies have become situations of war, as recently said the Medical Order; it is irresponsible to lack of human resources in hospitals and health centres; it is unexplained to obstinacy to postpone essential investments for good clinical practice and to provide modern and quality health services to Portuguese. The most surprising—or, perhaps, no! — this whole picture of degradation occurs with a government whose programme promises, and I quote: 'Improving the quality of health care'. After all, it's just prosapy! Prosapia of the Government of the Socialist Party and its partners, Block of the Left and Party of the Communist Party, who have already approved three evidently inadequate budgets for the National Health Service. Inadequate, yes, and therefore debt and late payments continue to spill; inadequate, yes, and therefore investments in the National Health Service remained, in 2017, much below what happened in 2015 ; inadequate, yet, causing the delay in hiring doctors newly trained specialists and nurses for the paintings, instead resorting to precarious contracts that do not stop increasing. In the face of this situation, of poor governance in the field of health, the Minister of Health does not take action or face the situation and much less finds solutions. In the face of this state of de-government in the field of health, the Minister of Finance is taking action. The Minister of Finance is the one who decides that such urgent competitions for doctors should be postponed. The Minister of Finance authorizes, at great cost, the purchase of medical equipment and works to improve or expand hospitals and health centres. A blatant example: the Lisbon IPO has EUR 5 million since September 2015 to expand and modernise the surgical block. This situation has been delayed in the surgeries of hundreds of cancer patients. Well, just now, almost three years later, the works are about to start. By the way, Mr. Minister of Health, I talk to you about the IPO, in the center of Lisbon, but I could tell you about the hospital in Bragança, in the northeast of Transmontane. And where is the Minister of Health? It doesn't exist! Or, better, it is increasingly the « flower in the lapel» of the National Health Service, reduced to a mere protection of the Emperor Centeno who, without care and with total social insensitivity, sets and disposes about who should and who should not have access to health care with modern equipment, in appropriate spaces and with motivated professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u3	Look at the flower there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u4	For this government, people, especially the sick, are just numbers. Cold numbers, dry numbers, implacable numbers, numbers that can cure budgets but do not cure Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u5	That's what you guys were doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u6	In view of the unusual piccardia of Minister Centeno, who said that, and I quote, « there is poor health management in Portugal », how did Mr. Minister of Health react? He said that there is indeed poor health management in Portugal, but, Mr Health Minister, if there is bad management in your Ministry, what are you doing to ensure that there is good management? That's the question that matters to ask. [[PSD applause.]] Dr. Adalberto Campos Fernandes is no longer reacting, even before a "burning cloth" of his colleague for finance. [[Laughing.]] Finally, the recent constitution by the Government of a Mission Structure for the Sustainability of the National Health Service — see the pomp of the name! — it is nothing more than the long hand of Minister Centeno on the daily life of the Ministry of Health, it is the blatant evidence of how the Minister of Health has failed and has become politically irrelevant. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government is playing with the health of Portuguese and these war and power games between members of the government are bad claims, especially when the malaise and dissatisfaction spread between users and professionals of the National Health Service. This government has shown, for a very short time, how far it can become irresponsible: in the face of imminent danger situations, duly reported by professionals and specialists, it does not make available the resources by making'market ears' to the dramatic cries of the populations. So everything ended in the tragedies of last summer's fires. Oxalá, that the National Health Service is not the new stage in which tragedy situations are repeated that fall on the most defenseless and disease-decreasing Portuguese, Portuguese, those who have a special obligation to support with commitment and dedication as they command the founding principles of our National Health Service, in which the PSD believes and in which this government no longer believes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u7	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, given the extension of our agenda, I would like to ask all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, and also to the honourable Members. Members of the Government understand that we need to be strict in meeting the times available during the session. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government present and I give the floor to Mr. Health Minister Adalberto Campos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The XXI Constitutional Government has set as a fundamental objective the priority for people, identifying dignity as the central value of society and people as the first and most important active in the country. This government has clearly assumed the bet on public health services after the de-investment of which they have been targeted in the recent past. After the rhetoric of fiction, if you will allow me, then we will appreciate the concrete facts and reality. We know, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the state in which we found the National Health Service in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Today, it is better to recognize it as independent national and international entities, independent entities than the Members. Ladies and gentlemen don't like to read and don't like to hear. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u9	Some don't like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u10	I speak of the Euro Health Consumer Index, I speak of the New University of Lisbon — which recently presented a study where it says, in fact, that it has never done so much with the resources available — and I also speak of the recent positive assessment of the European Commission. So let's go to the facts, diverging a little from what we've heard so far that it was a fictional rhetoric exercise.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u11	Go to the hospitals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u12	Over the past two years, we have seen an increase in users' access to the SNS driven by the decrease in the economic barriers that had been set up in the previous government and that this is an example of a significant reduction in the burden on citizens with moderate rates and the transport of non-emergency patients. We placed on the reform of the SNS that ensures greater integration of care, focused on the user and focused on health outcomes. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The measures implemented have contributed to the consolidation of high standards of care performance, especially at the level of programmed activity, consultations and surgeries. More than half of the specialties have improved the maximum guaranteed response times. The indicators already available in 2017, for January and February, are also very positive indicating in some cases two-digit growths. In the area of primary health care, it was possible to gradually increase the coverage of the population by family doctor. At the end of this year 96 % of registered persons will have been awarded a doctor compared with 89 % in 2015. We increased the resolution capacity of primary health care, with more responses in oral health, psychology, nutrition, with the increased implementation of visual health screenings, population-based screenings and the increase in the number of mobile health units. In the hospital context, we highlight the creation of free access and movement of users in the SNS, the revision of hospital reference networks, the recognition of more than 110 reference centres and the strengthening of the processes of affiliation, shared management of resources and work We also stress the regulation of integrated responsibility centres (ICR), as well as the strengthening of home hospital responses in the community. The national network of integrated continuous care highlights the sustained extension of the number of places of admission and home support, as well as the creation of responses in the context of integrated, pediatric and mental health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u13	That doesn't matter to the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u14	We open more 1480 continuous care beds, which add about 543 new hospitalization responses. For the first time in Portugal 364 beds and places integrated into the integrated mental health care network were opened.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u15	Mental health doesn't matter to PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u16	We have also made progress in consolidating a national palliative care network. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These reforms have been accompanied by the strengthening of human resources for the SNS. In fact, as of today, the SNS has about 8,000 more professionals than it had in October 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We increased the number of doctors placed in the interior regions, reversed the tendency of emigration — never the emigration of health professionals, doctors and nurses, had been so low in Portugal —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u18	... we implemented wage replacement measures, we rejected the value of extraordinary hours, quality hours in nursing, PNT (normal working period) 35 hours and finally, at the end of 18 years, we created the careers of diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and hospital pharmacists. In every hospital in the country — and I insist, in all! — there are currently investments in the modernisation of infrastructure and equipment under way, in design or in launching. [[PSD protests.]] We launched the construction of four new hospitals, whose competitions are being executed and we are building in the country, Mr. Members, more than 110 new health centres. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] at the level of medical emergency, in the last two years we renewed 82 cars, while the renewal of more 103, and in 2017, for the first time in Portugal, all the municipalities in the country became having a medical emergency post. In the area of medicine, we ended up freezing at the entry of therapeutic innovation and in two years we brought about 120 new innovative molecules into such sensitive areas as cancer and HIV-AIDS. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the efforts made over the past two years, there has been a lot of work to be done. The progressive growth of the population's health needs, as a result of demographic and epidemiological transition and increased morbidity, requires continuity to the organization and responses of the SNS. In order to reduce the debt of SNS entities, we are now completing the first EUR 500 million tranche, which is virtually completed and will follow a new EUR 500 million tranche. At the end of the year we will have the best result in terms of average payment deadlines and accumulated debt stock. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I conclude this first intervention by stating that this policy is certain, as in fact the country's policy, which sustains good public finances to enable quality public services. We are working on the articulation and integration of care with the aim of building a stronger SNS, turned to people and that may indeed be what was the dream of its founders, 40 years ago, in 1979. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u19	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the first round of this debate. To this end, Mr. PSD Member Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of Health, indeed his initial intervention disappointed. [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]] One was expected to blame me, after stating that there was poor health management, and what we saw was another exercise of propaganda and denial of reality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u21	If we are meeting here today, it is because of the disqualification that we are witnessing in the National Health Service ( SNS ) : surgeries constantly cancelled due to lack of professionals and material, maximum waiting times constantly exceeded — Mr. Minister talks in large numbers, but yesterday we were on the ground at the IPO (English Institute of Oncology), where cancer patients see these maximum times exceeded — emergency services without capacity to respond, lack of access to medicines, denounced by multiple patient associations, in all areas referred to by Mr. Minister, lack of access to health,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u22	It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u23	... an increase in the burden of the disease — the Portuguese are becoming increasingly ill, as Mr President admitted in his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u24	PSD is sick!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u25	Health professionals are worn out: there are more and more strikes, a discriminatory application of 35 hours of weekly work, promised by their government since 2015, a chronic lack of doctors, a chronic lack of nurses, an absolute wear of professionals, with the lack of prospects for the future of the National Health Service and careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u26	All right! [[Protests from PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, BE Mois Ferreira and PCP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u27	Mr. Minister and his government promised to end the precariousness, they promised to end the tough doctors, they said their existence would be marginal. And what happened? In 2016, EUR 98 million was spent on professional doctors. And how much was spent next year? EUR 120 million was spent. More and more is being spent on disintegrating health teams. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Minister for late payments was speaking. What is happening in the EPE hospitals(enterprise public entities) is a shame, Minister : within two years, he managed to double the payments behind these hospitals. We do not know who the creditors of the Ministry are because the Minister does not say, but we know that the barrier of EUR 1000 million has already passed. We walked, as we walked in 2009, to the cliff. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u28	At the same time, we verified a fall in investment in almost 40% in the National Health Service in two years. Therefore, the country is growing and the government politically decides to invest in the National Health Service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u29	The mistrust is absolute, Minister. People do not believe in the National Health Service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u30	Look, the studies say otherwise!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u31	... people often do not have the answer they need from the National Health Service and increasingly use private health insurance. Mr President, during the past year, he said that it was always Mr Finance Minister's fault: he said that more money was needed to invest, but that he expected the authorization of the Minister of Finance ; he said that more officials had to be hired, but that he was waiting for an authorization from the Minister of Finance ; he said that better working conditions were needed, that better response was needed to patients, but that he was waiting for the Minister of Finance, who, as he said in the last debate, was going through Brussels. In view of this situation, the PSD has taken a decision and, for a month and a half ago, it has decided to call the Minister of Finance to Parliament, even in a logic of institutional solidarity with the Minister, to respond before Parliament because he is blocking the policies of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u32	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u33	You came back two weeks from our request, what happened? The tactics Mr. Prime Minister, António Costa, has already used us: there comes another « quick thinking», plus a working group, now called the Mission Structure for the Sustainability of the Health Budget Programme. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]] Therefore, basically, it has already come to the conclusion that the Government has no health strategy and, then, it creates a working group for the basic law; the Government sees a burnout of its health professionals and, then, in the last Council of Ministers, creates a working group for the well-being of health professionals;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u35	... and the government has an absolute disregard for public accounts and then creates a working group for the sustainability of the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u36	Out of control of public accounts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u37	And whose fault is it? It is always another's fault: the fault is the opposition, the guilt is the social communication, the guilt is the associations of patients, the guilt was from the Ministry of Finance — but it is no longer — the guilt is from the unions, professional orders... The blame is from everyone less from the Minister of Health, less from the government! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u38	The Minister is a man of science and knows that applying the same formula repeatedly will not produce any different results. Therefore, in view of the seriousness of the situation, we cannot continue as we are and something must be done, Minister. If it's the manager's fault, as you said, quit them, do something!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u40	If you don't have any money, demand it publicly. If the Prime Minister does not take health as a priority, he assumes the Minister. Basically, it has one of two ways: or it has the courage to make the necessary changes, the necessary reforms, even if for that it has to be isolated before its government and before the majority who supports it, and will be known in history as the Minister who defended the interests of the Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u41	You've reached your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u42	I will finish now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u43	But it is now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u44	... or then, alternatively, Mr Minister will continue the path that he is following and will become known as the "Minister Pass-Culpas", who did nothing, who passed the blame on to others and attributed the lack of action to the inaction of all others but the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u45	Do you believe that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u46	Mr President, it is really to conclude, in accordance with the appeal I made recently.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u47	from the Social Democratic Party, Minister, we will continue to demand...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u48	Sir, I'm talking to you! I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u49	I will finish, Mr. President, if I may. As I said, the PSD will continue to demand action, and hopes that the Minister will be able to intervene, and will continue to defend the National Health Service intransigently on behalf of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u50	Mr António Sales of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister of Health, it was with some perplexity that the Socialist Party received the PSD's request for an urgent debate on the state of health,... [[PSD protests.]] ... above all, 20 days after, in this Chamber, if there has been an extended debate on health and SNS in which all political parties—I repeat, all political parties—, PCP, Bloc, Green Party, Socialist Party and, even CDS, presented legislative initiatives and recommendations with proposals for improving the conditions of the SNS. Mr Minister, do you know which party did not present any initiative, no alternative proposal, no new idea, no appropriate solution?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u52	They're not doing anything! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u53	Exactly, Minister, it was the PSD! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u54	All right! Well remembered! Zero! Zero! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u55	Mr Minister, we doubt whether this debate has to do with the purpose of the PSD to fill this gap, although with manifest delay, or whether it has to do with the internal difficulties of this PSD statement and with the response to the internal criticisms that have emerged to the new leadership, seeking to replace a mere cosmetic action, a reported political paleness, by a claimed display, at any price of opposition to the government. [[PSD protests.]] Or perhaps still a third hypothesis, Minister : is that the PSD has the notion, in fact, correct, that the window of opportunity is being exhausted to attack the SNS and the government because of the SNS debts, when debt regularisation and improvement of the SNS budget sustainability are under way. Mr Minister, there is still a fourth hypothesis: the PSD does not want to remain silent when some professional areas announce or carry out work paralysis, even though the former Government has been the great promoter of the backward pay and working conditions of the professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u56	It was your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u57	Mr Minister, any of these reasons seriously compromise the PSD because they mean that this concern is not a genuine concern but a mere instrument of political agenda, opportunism, which has nothing to do with the concern for Portuguese health. What we have heard today, Minister, was a sterile exercise that adds nothing to health policy, was a self-exercise of a prosecutor of misfortune, who has done no more than the construction of the theory of chaos that they themselves want to build. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The challenge I leave you with, Mr, is to tell the Portuguese what it has to offer them in terms of health, what constructive and consistent proposals it has to offer them. Do you want to offer them a return to what you have offered between 2011 and 2015? More moderate rates, less public spending, less accessibility, less care production? Is this your political proposal? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u58	And the exodus of doctors! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u59	Do you want to return to what you offered them between 2011 and 2015? Cuts in social benefits, cuts in pensions, cuts in wages, increase in unemployment,... [[PSD protests.]] ...social determinants that generate inequity in health? Is this what you want to offer the Portuguese again?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u60	The troika is sorry for everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u61	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the current government's health policies are producing results, and this is proof of that, as Mr Minister said, of the recent study by University Nova which testifies to its positive impact on the lives of citizens and the system. Says the study that the sustainability index progressed 2, 8 points between 2015 and 2017...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u62	What a mess to say this! Look at that! It's a study of your friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u63	... and that the effective technical quality of the SNS, which used 13 indicators validated by independent entities, has risen substantially.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u64	And now, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite? What now? Oh, my God! You who likes studies so much! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u65	And the study even says more: it says that the percentage of Portuguese people who stopped buying drugs due to economic insufficiency has fallen to the lowest value since 2014, increased from 14, 2 % to 10, 8 %. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u66	It's not us who say it's New University!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u67	It also says that consultations and complementary examinations and emergencies lost due to the value of moderate rates have fallen substantially. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely thought it was about these matters that the PSD wanted to reflect today and that it wanted to make its act of contribution, but we soon realized that it is only a question of survival of a political agenda, to the taste of merely party interests. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mr Minister, I wanted to leave you two questions. We know that much has been done, but also that much has to be done until the end of the Legislature, in the path of improvement of the work that has been done.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u68	You've reached your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u69	I'm done now, Mr. President. What Mr. Minister thinks he is doing to continue to improve a very important indicator to which the New University study refers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u70	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u71	... concerning the percentage of Portuguese people who stop buying drugs due to economic insufficiency? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u72	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of Health, I leave three notes for the beginning of this debate. The first is that there was a ping of shame on the PSD bench and saving-CL - we would - at this show of cynicism, complete cynicism and political hypocrisy. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] [[PSD protests.]] Are you talking now about 35 hours when you've increased your working hours for the professionals while they cut their salary? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]] Are you talking about the lack of resources when, in your budgets, you have reduced more than EUR 1000 million to the National Health Service? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u74	Well remembered! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u75	Are you talking about the lack of professionals, when did 4400 professionals reduce? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u76	Mr Moisés Ferreira, I am very sorry, I have to ask you to suspend your intervention a little bit, but I will give you the corresponding tolerance. There's Mr. Ladies and gentlemen who are not taking sides, they are making speeches without me giving them the floor. I therefore ask you to take this into account. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. I understand that the truth bothers and that the exercise of hypocrisy becomes more noisy as it bothers more, but I will continue!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u78	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u79	The PSD is now talking about overcrowding when it closed hundreds of intern beds, and out there? Oh, my God! Does it speak to users when more than doubled the moderate rates? Oh, my God! Exercise of pure hypocrisy! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Second note for this debate: it is necessary to combat a lie that is being put in place and for which, unfortunately, the Government is contributing. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u80	It is that the problem of the National Health Service is the management, the problem of the National Health Service is the fact that it is expensive. It's not! The National Health Service is underfunded and this is the problem of the National Health Service, not now but always. This is the problem of the National Health Service. Portugal spends, compared with other European countries, much less as a percentage of GDP (gross domestic product) with its National Health Service. That, yes, is the main problem, that, yes, is that it is expensive to the country, because that is, yes, it is expensive to the users, the deprivation of health care they need so much. Third note: the so-called mission unit was built to identify the so-called management problems. Mr Minister, it was not necessary to go so far, because many of these management problems lie within the government itself, many of these management problems are in subordinate policy to deficit, are in subordination of public services to the deficit, which I give you some examples: the delay in medical contests may leave more than 100 vacancies to fill. Is the delay in medical tendering a management problem that could have already been resolved? It cost EUR 130 million with companies, and these EUR 130 million gave to hire thousands of professionals. Is it or is it not a management problem that can be resolved immediately by the government? There are surgeries that are not performed because contracts of operational assistants and nurses are not allowed, for example. Is it or is it not a management problem that can be resolved immediately by the government? I would also like to leave you two examples and two very specific questions. The Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro Hospital Center is waiting for a signature to put a CT machine (computorized axial tomography) into operation, I repeat, is waiting for a signature only, which would save 5000 trips per year and many user disorders. Is it a management problem that this government can solve immediately? The Centre Hospitalar Médio Tejo expects permission for a magnetic resonance imaging device that would pay itself in two years, taking into account what is spent with the privates to make the magnetic resonances. Is it or not a management problem that could be resolved immediately by the government?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u81	You must now conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u82	I will finish, Mr. President. We need to leave side by side and go to the point of interest. What is needed in the National Health Service are contracts and investments and the question is: is the government available to hire and invest more in the National Health Service? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u83	Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to congratulate you and from now on wish you a good Easter, making these vows extended to all Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, we have come back to this for the worst reasons. This is a theme, that of health, which is expensive to the CDS, which is undeniable that we have been accompanying, that we have been on the ground and we have long seen complaints of problems that today return to the holophotos for the worst reasons, as I said. What we, CDS, have asked Mr Minister, more than come here to make kind announcements, is that he finds concrete solutions, that he implements them, that he is not a child of finance, that he is a minister and exercises his responsibilities. In fact, you have been a minister for more than two years, even though it is difficult to assert yourself in the face of your subjugation to finance on a daily basis. What do we have today, and it has already been said here, but is it not too much to remind you? We have hospitals in technical bankruptcy. In fact, it was Mr Minister who here, in this House, admitted him, with the dark divide imposed by centralisation which prevents autonomy and efficiency, which you are looking for. We have unacceptable waiting times, from the point of view of consultations and surgeries. We have insufficient and worn-out professionals who have carried out strikes and announce new strikes in a climate of conflict that you, your team, have finally not been able to solve, with clear damage to the Portuguese. We have de-investment in the SNS, with increasing debts. In addition, it is enough to see the budget implementation bulletin and the increase in the debt of EPE hospitals which, from January to February, was EUR 73 million, Minister, which has never been achieved before! Since November, we have been seeing the Minister — and here in this House, I remind you, who announced it — saying that he is going to make capital injections, which, in fact, did not happen because they were immediately frozen. So what we are looking at is that the Minister is risking to be known as the Minister who "pushes with the belly", like the Minister who runs behind the damage, the Minister who hides behind the working groups, or even the Minister who does not know the reality, because you come here saying that everything is fine and, by the way, devalues and ignores the reality of the Alentejo coast, where there are beds to close, the reality of the Santarém district, where pregnant women have nowhere to go to do ultrasounds, the reality of the Gaia hospital, where doctors say they can no longer stand, or the reality of the Setúbal hospital... Is all a lie, Mr Minister? Is everything okay? How do you answer these people?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u86	Therefore, if there is bad management in the National Health Service, as you have acknowledged, I insist on the question I ask you: whose responsibility is the first? Will you keep saying it's from the past? Does a blank cloth pass over these two years and little governance?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u87	You have reached the limit of your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u88	I will finish, Mr. President. What results does Mr Minister expect from another mission unit? It will certainly have a good goal, but we don't need any more working groups. Only one working group is still missing to support the working groups you are setting up.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u89	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u90	They're so many! They're so many! So we don't even need the contortionist maneuvers of the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u91	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u92	...and the PCP, nor the support on the PS side, which comes to ignore reality, saying it's all right. We need concrete measures and that is what we want to hear here today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u93	Mr João Dias, from the PCP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u94	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: SNS faces serious problems that need to be solved and it must be clear that the determination of the PCP to discuss and solve the problems of SNS is not confused with the PSD's attitude. Now that he is no longer in the government, every day he says bad about the SNS to continue favouring private groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u95	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u97	Health in Portugal is still very ill due to a set of structural problems caused by right-wing policies that the PS, PSD and CDS have carried out over decades and aggravated by PSD/CDS governments, which stubbornly the PS government insists on not correcting. These are real examples of the buildings of degraded health centres and need rehabilitation works or patients piled up in monkeys by the corridors of emergency services, where there is a huge lack of professionals, aggravated in periods of greater influx, or the lack of doctors, nurses, health technicians, administrative and operational assistants, with direct impact on the quality of care, or the fact that doctors are pressured to see users in 5, 6 or 7 minutes or the case of high-forced patients, where patients are almost pushed out only to meet management indicators. What we have witnessed over decades of policies of degradation and destruction of the SNS was thousands of Portuguese without a family doctor, the closure of dozens of proximity services, health centres, health extensions, SAP (permanent care service), hospital emergencies, maternity and others, cuts in support of the transport of non-emergency patients, waiting times for surgeries and specialist consultations far above that established with security assurance, closure and transfer of hospital valences, which require tens and up to hundreds of kilometres of displacements. It deserves the people another health policy, a policy that, as the PCP defends, enables them to ensure and access quality health care, which guarantees the strengthening of SNS investment, the fight against the privatization of health and the valorization of professionals, by a public, universal and free SNS for all. Only in this way is it possible to ensure to all users the health care they need, and for the realization of this desire it is essential that the policy carried out by successive governments with right-wing policies is effectively interrupted, i.e. to break off the path of de-investment of the SNS and privatization that the PSD and the CDS have deepened. This is what the PS Government needs to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u98	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, after everything the PSD has done to health, when I heard you talk about health today, we have the idea that we are all hearing sick. Sometimes they force us to shake our heads twice to be sure that we are hearing well, such is the dimension of demagogy, hypocrisy and the cynicism of the PSD in health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u100	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u101	But, Minister of Health, the situation in which many of the health services are in our country is very unhealthy. I'd say until it's nothing healthy. [[PSD protests.]] It's not healthy, but it's not a problem today. We know that it is not a problem today and we know that the situation now in many health services ends up as a result of structural insufficiency. In fact, if today the lack of response of the SNS is visible, it is also visible that this is the direct consequence of the political options of several governments that over the decades have consolidated and raised the de-investment in the National Health Service to the condition of established rule. And in this context it is important to remember the closure of health services, the reduction of beds and health professionals or even the effort more than deliberate to fatten the private market with interests in the area of health. And if it is true that the current government is beginning to delay in taking measures to give effective response to all of these problems in the health sector today, it is also true that the policies of the previous government, the PSD/CDS government, have played an absolutely central role in their worsening and in much contributed to the situation of rupture that we are living today. It will not be exaggerated, for example, to say that the former Government has eventually reduced the Ministry of Health to a simple State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u102	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u103	And we all remember — and certainly Mr Adam Silva also remembers — when the Minister of Health of the former Government stated with the greatest conviction that he was still in service — that is to say! — to improve Portuguese access to health care. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u104	Well, today we have the clear notion of the consequences of the doctrine advocated by the previous government and of the conversation of the least state, better. But Mr Minister, one of the causes or reasons that have contributed most to the situation of the SNS is precisely about the disinvestment that has occurred over the decades at the level of health. In fact, it is sufficient to look at the general accounts of the State to see that, year after year, the budget implemented is invariably higher than it was budgeted. And if it is true that the governmental solution found on the left has put a brake on the progressive reduction of SNS funding, it is also true that the growth that has been verified is, in spite of everything, still far away—it would say even too far—of what is necessary to strengthen the response capacity of the National Health Service. What I ask you, Minister, is if it does not seem to you that it is absolutely imperative to make a real and effective strengthening of public investment at the level of health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u106	To conclude the first round, Mr. Minister of Health, Adalberto Campos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to start this block of answers to the honourable Members. Members taking part in the speech of Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, who, insinuating that the government was practising political contortionism, did itself the best and most exemplary exercise of political contortionism in terms of truth. Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto — and, indeed, in this reply I also reply to Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite — I think that it is not worth continuing on the road, which I think is manifestly exhausted, that there will be some kind of big schism in the government between the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance. It is a path that is completely exhausted and wrong, even because, honourable Member, I frankly tell you, in terms of budgetary rigour, of the success of the public accounts, of the growth of the economy, facts that I know hurt you, which make you very hurt in political consciousness, we, in the government, would even say, are all Centeno. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u108	Good! [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u109	Having said this, then, let's get out of what I thought was in the speeches of the honourable Members. Deputies Ricardo Baptista Leite and Isabel Galriza Neto, so a kind of virtual planet. [[PSD protests.]] We have come here to discuss politics, political programme, government programme, but, no, the PSD and CDS do the exercise, let us say, fictional and are all this time, even with well-articulated words, in the field of virtual rhetoric, because they do not talk about concrete. They refuse, for example, to acknowledge that the country has much more professionals, that we have more Portuguese covered by family doctor, that we have more access to the medicine, that 2016 and 2017 were the years in which more Portuguese came to SNS, that in more than 50 % of the specialties the maximum guaranteed response times improved. But then what do the PSD and CDS do? They play that role that Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite gave himself, which is a kind of complaint manager resulting from the reading of newspaper titles, a sort of "yellow book" of health policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u110	All right! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u111	Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come here very seriously to discuss politics and to discuss politics is to tell the Portuguese that it is not, it is not all right. We did not announce, as you did in the past, the end of the crisis or the end of SNS sustainability,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... nor do we announce, even, oasis. We assume that at many points in the country there are problems and difficulties, but the novelty, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there are fewer problems and difficulties than there was in your time, much less!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u112	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u114	Then, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, given much to matters of the economy, came to talk about technical failure of hospitals, quoting myself. It's true! Madam Member, that is why I and the Minister for Finance — see, you and me! — we believe that an extraordinary injection of EUR 1000 million was appropriate, Mrs Deputy, I repeat, EUR 1000 million, which was the greatest increase in statutory capital ever. And for what, Mrs. Deputy? [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] At the end of this year, do you know what's going to happen? The overwhelming majority of hospitals will not be in technical bankruptcy. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] Furthermore, Mrs Deputies : reading the budget implementation report published by the DGO (General Budget Directorate), in fact, in February we were still at a rate of debt growth which was worrying, but fortunately yesterday, at the end of the day, we had already executed some 400 million of the 500 million we had promised to pay. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Now, Mrs. Member, there is a little more than a year and a half left for the end of the legislature. I know that what concerns you is not so much the political time of the legislature, but it is the comparison of four years of this majority with your four years. [[PSD protests.]] This concerns you very much, not only for what you have already lost, which was the flag, your first flag, of the devil of the economy, of the devil of employment, and now build a narrative — with some top, I recognize — given that you were not here at that time and now practice, with crocodile tears, the exercise of grief. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that you look at the numbers in fact. Furthermore, on April 7 will be published a document full of facts and in these facts is the truth of what has happened in the last two years with regard to the care, economic and financial performance of the SNS. [[PSD protests.]] We know, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, what you don't want is propaganda, what you want is true. But, in fact, the Portuguese do very well the difference! Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, do you speak of precariousness? Do you have any idea how many SNS professionals have gone from right-term work contracts to endless contracts in the past two years?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u115	A few jobmakers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u116	Is it propaganda, too, Mr. Deputies? Go see the official data and ask the professionals themselves. Mr António Sales raised the issue of better access to the medicine. Access to a health system is not only access to consultations, it is also possible to access these consultations, either because transport is possible or because economic barriers are diminished, and it is also access to better therapeutic innovation. Today, we have more than 18,000 approved treatments for hepatitis C, we have more than 13,000 patients who have received treatment with a very high cure rate. However, it is not only hepatitis C that it is important to talk about, but also about access to innovative oncological therapy, access to innovative therapy for HIV (human immunodeficiency virus), which was blocked for four years, closed in the drawer of those who today say that access to SNS is worse than it was in its time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u117	It was years!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u118	As for the mission unit, which was something that was of great interest to the banks, particularly the CDS and the PSD, I wonder how many mission units there have been in the past. Many, many, many, and with good results. I quote only two: the mission unit that created the reform of primary health care in Portugal and the mission unit that created the national network of continued care, curiously shared also between health and social security. As Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite said, for old problems old solutions are not useful. That is why this mission unit has as its main concern to find formulas that avoid the cycle of debt repetition, so that we arrive at the end of the legislature with an adapted financing model and, by paraphrasing, if I may, the President of the Council of Public Finance, I will say that mismanagement and subordination are almost a natural link, because it is impossible to manage well when budgets are insufficient. That is why we will seek, with this mission unit between health and finance, measures that in 2019 allow us to look at the sustainability of the SNS differently and, above all, to interrupt the management cycle, the debt creation cycle. As far as mismanagement is concerned, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, I give her a very specific example: the Central Lisbon Hospital Centre has seven old buildings, which, only because they are isolated and require duplication of services, make the State spend more, by year, unnecessarily, EUR 48 million. This is indeed mismanagement. But is there any alternative to this not to make a new hospital? Well, that's what you're doing, Mrs. Member. The public tender is being launched and we are now awaiting the submission of proposals. This will be, among other things, the solution to effectively improve the management of large hospitals, such as the Central Lisbon Hospital Center. Mr. José Luís Ferreira referred to the issue of investment. We're making a huge effort to recover lost time. I have spoken several times in the 110 new health centers that are being made, many of them in partnership with local authorities. I am also talking about more than EUR 110 million of investment, which comes through the Community funds, in the PO SEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use) programme, and I am talking about a direct investment which is enshrined in the State budget, in addition to the launch of four new hospitals. at this moment, Mr. Member, all the hospitals in the country, all, have ongoing investment programs, running and launching. We are late, we should have recovered what, practically since 2010, is stopped, it is true that we are, but we are responsible and we will always do what is our obligation: responsible management of resources, because in the first half of the mandate, Mr. Deputies, our concern was the greater investment in human capital, in more resources, more people, better working conditions, with better remuneration and better expectation of people's inclusion in their professional projects. We face a great challenge in the year and a half that is virtually lacking until the end of the legislature, which is to comply with the Government Programme, making the biggest investment in the SNS, which is in people, in human capital and professionals and, of course, an investment in improving infrastructure, equipment, so that next year, when they spend 40 years on the SNS, we can be proud to celebrate this anniversary with the best National Health Service ever, turned to people, and assuming that every day they pass, there are problems to solve. This is the difference between those who take on the difficulties with humility and those who have a lapse of historical memory and realize that at nothing have contributed to the disaster in which the SNS was in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u119	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to move on to the second round. I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Fatima Ramos from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u120	I begin by congratulating Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr. Secretary of State and the Secretary of State, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, you spoke in many nice numbers, but when we go to the field — you recently launched the challenge of going to the ground — what we see, and just take in yesterday's Newspaper,... [[Right now, the speaker showed a newspaper news.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u121	Always newspaper headlines!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u122	... is that, for example in Miranda do Corvo, Penela and Table, lack of heating, lack of gas, lack of paper towels for people to clean their hands in the health center. Paper towels are an unrealistic expense, Minister, but you know the consequences of them in terms of hygiene and public health. That's what you're betting on primary service care, Minister! More: we're going to the Hospital Oliveira, Minister. You made a protocol with the Aurelio Dinis Foundation because of the urgency. He did, and all right in that part, nothing moves us against the social institutions, contrary to the extreme left. But do you know that if people, during the night, call the INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency), are taken to Arganil or Table, already changing district? Is this what you're betting on primary health care, Minister? More: we go to the health center Fernão de Magalhães, in Coimbra. According to the newspaper,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u123	Only newspapers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u124	Newspapers don't lie, newspapers broadcast what's going on with people on the ground. You're against the papers, right? Are they against the press? Ah, now you're against the press! I said that according to the newspaper, it rains at the health center Fernão de Magalhães, in Coimbra, in the family health unit that was arranged for months.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u125	Read the news development! It's not just the titles!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u126	This is the moment Monty Python!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u127	But you know what's worse? It's the rest of the Health Center. You know what they tell me? It has raised ground, short circuits, bathrooms and elevator that don't work. That's right! That is why I ask you, Minister, to move forward with the works, because they are crucial. Only then can we walk to give better services to people. More: you boast a lot about the USF, but do you know that you want Miranda do Corvo to want the health center Fernão de Magalhães are waiting for USF approval? That is why, Minister, you approve them. More: let's go, for example, to Port.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u128	Another newspaper? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u129	Yeah, the emergency service looks like a war scene, everything's missing. That's what we're told, that's what the ground is. But you know what we're told more? That it reaches the point of missing sheets and, because there are missing sheets, the beds don't work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u130	Bed sheets, towels! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u131	You see how the management is doing? And whose fault is it, Minister? It's from you, who's in front of the folder. This is the land. Moreover, speaking of working groups, you are stating the working groups but, for example, there is news saying: « Center doctors alert to the ‘breakdown’ of Maternity Bissaya Barreto in Coimbra ». That is how we are, Mr Minister, so I ask you once again: it is before the Minister for Finance. We're sick of nice news.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u132	Are they pretty or ugly, after all? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u133	More: According to the Observer and the Correio da Manhã, waiting times for consultations reach four years and, at the Hospital de S. Pedro, in Vila Real, urology comes to have a waiting time of 1600 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u134	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u135	Mr Minister, we defend the National Health Service, even because we know it is fundamental, especially for those who have little resources and for those who live in the interior lands. I therefore ask you, Minister, not be Centeno, look at the people, look at the people you need, look at the patients. That's what I'm asking. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u136	Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u137	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by saying that there is something disappointing in this frenzy of the responses and in this debate marked by the PSD, which, in fact, until now, has brought nothing constructive. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, contrary to the perception of the PSD and opposition members, there are more people, there are more people using the National Health Service, and there has been a better response, better access and improvement of the technical quality of the services provided to the Portuguese. We are aware that the National Health Service is more sustainable, but not all problems are solved. This was a year in which there were more transfers from the State budget to health and the year in which the greatest reinforcement of EPE hospitals is being carried out. Mr Adam Silva has forgotten to speak — or he does not know, I do not know... — of strengthening investment in the National Health Service. They are in project or construction over 100 new health centers throughout the country. He didn't...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u138	Projects!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u139	New hospitals will be built in Seixal, Évora, Sintra and Lisbon Oriental. It didn't happen to him either.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u140	Well remembered! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u141	This is investment, investment reinforcement. Modernisation of equipment is being carried out, which has been stagnation in recent years, and we also have an energy efficiency programme — since we have talked about some problems here — the overall amount of investment will reach around EUR 100 million. It's no reinforcement, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? They forgot about this! They also spoke about the IPO (English Institute of Oncology). I remember national coverage—I don't know if they have knowledge, but they are now—in the context of population-based screenings in the areas of breast cancer, cervical cancer, colon and rectum cancer and diabetic retinopathy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u143	Where is that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u144	Where is he? Mr President, it is the coverage, it is the reinforcement, it is the health promotion that you forget. You speak based on perceptions rather than reality. [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, from this set of brief considerations, I withdraw, if I may, that the PSD, unfortunately, cannot prove what is worth, if it is worth it. For so long they have suggested that socialists were the incompetent, do this demonstration, do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u145	You've finished your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u146	I will now finish, Mr President. Make this demonstration, make proposals, and we'll be here to applaud. But until then, we wait for you to sit down, and the electorate, at the right time, will have the opportunity to answer you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u147	Mr Moisés Ferreira of the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u148	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, I believe that the Minister, in his reply to the first round of questions, of speeches, has taken a positive step: he has acknowledged that subordination is the major problem of the National Health Service. This, yes, is the great problem of the National Health Service. Therefore, we were able to clear from the table all the noise that was created with this idea of mismanagement in the National Health Service, in fact, soon taken advantage of by the PSD and CDS, because behind this idea of mismanagement comes the antisocial idea against the state, against the public service and the idea of imposing, again, the ideological project of the PSD and CDS-PP, which is to make the National Health Service a kind of cheque issuer to support the private business. I'm glad we were able to get this idea out of the table, which was false, from mismanagement in the National Health Service. The problem is lack of investment and lack of budget. But I also note that the Minister has left a number of matters to be answered and I will therefore insist on them. One of them concerns the authorization to hire professionals, which is not happening. All hospitals and all health centers tell us that there is no authorization to hire professionals to replace temporary absences of work. We put this issue here in January this year, and the Minister said it was all settled, but it is not. All the visits we made after that debate have resulted in the same answer: no contracts are being allowed. So, Minister, what's going on? Why are these contracts not being authorised? Another matter concerns the delay in contracts for the hiring of doctors. The Minister said that there was no problem with the delay of 10 months and that this would not represent any escape for the private. It doesn't seem that's what's happening, because what you know is there'll be hundreds of deserted vacancies left. Minister, what happened to these doctors? Where did they migrate? What happened to them? Is it a management problem or not? In view of the fact that they are now finishing the training of more medical specialists, does it guarantee that within 30 days the next competitions for medical contracts will be launched? Mr President, I did not want to end this speech without focusing on what really matters when we talk about the National Health Service: the users. It has recently been reported that 2 million consultations have not been conducted because of the lack of economic conditions of users, because moderate rates continue to weigh, because the non-emergency of patients continues to be a barrier. Since the Left Block has already presented a bill that aims to ensure the non-urgent transport of patients to more people free of charge, I ask you, Minister, if you are available to make the amendment to the law in order to remove these access barriers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u149	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u150	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: I think that the Minister has already entered into a form of propaganda which, using his words, sees reality as a fictional exercise. It seems to us that those who live on the virtual planet are Mr. Minister and his team.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u152	The Minister told us, in his initial speech, that this government was affixing priority to people, affixed to public services and even told us in the recognition of independent entity studies. But none of this is true about reality, about the one we watch every day, about which newspapers talk every day. Mr. Minister, there is no memory of both dissatisfaction on the part of professionals in all areas of health and on the part of users. There is no memory of such conflict. There has not been a week when there is no threat or the realization of a strike in the area of health. How can Mr. Minister come to say that the opposition is that he is doing an exercise of contortionism? I believe that the Minister is already in advertising mode, which means that he does not see that there are delays in specialist consultations, scheduled surgeries that are not being performed, enormous delays in opening competitions, delays in fundamental works that are compromised, poor health management, as recognized by Minister Centeno. In the CDS, « we are not all Centeno », but also Mr. Minister and the Socialist Party bench « are Centeno ». If so, they urge Minister Centeno to unlock the money that is needed. The Minister of Health said that the great fear of the opposition is that we will be one and a half years away from the next elections and that there may be a comparison between the PSD/CDS coalition government and the Minister's government. No, Mr. Minister is afraid that we will be one and a half years away from the elections and not be able to fulfill a tenth of what he has committed to. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u153	I am talking to you, for example, about continuing care. Mr Minister, how are you going to create 14 000 beds until the end of the Legislature? This was a commitment made by you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u154	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u155	I shall conclude, Mr President. Again, I would ask the Minister to answer a question which has already been put to him several times and to which he has never been able to give an answer, having said, in fact, that he would ask the Secretary of State: how is the distribution of medicines for hepatitis C? Unfortunately, we know that there have been blockades that have severely damaged the patients. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u156	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Debate after debate, we understand the intentions of the PSD and the CDS. They have now found a philanthropist to attack the National Health Service, but their goal is to pursue the right-wing policy, destroying the SNS, transferring the public health care provision to the private. This is the filão, this is not the PCP's concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u159	Mr. Minister, the concern of the PCP with the National Health Service is to obtain concrete answers to the difficulties faced by professionals, users and the National Health Service itself. Mr Minister, a concrete answer must be given to the case of the two million consultations that have not been held because users cannot afford transport. Mr Minister, a concrete response must be given to the 10, 8 % Portuguese who cannot buy the medication because they do not have enough money to do so. Mr Minister, a concrete response must be given so that the children of Évora will have the pediatricians needed to care for them in their pediatric services. Mr. Minister, a concrete response must be given so that the IPO (English Institute of Oncology) in Lisbon is replaced by nurses who are in need, nurses who are on parental or sick leave. Mr Minister, it is necessary to give a concrete answer to the situation of the Alentejo coast, where beds were closed yesterday because of the lack of nurses, and consequently surgery has been postponed. Mr Minister, we are not all Centeno; we are people and we have the right to health. The Government must take concrete action. It has all the instruments, including the budget, to be able to respond to the needs of the National Health Service, the services, users and professionals. It is important to make it clear that the demands of health professionals are fair. In the State budget, concrete measures are included that respond to these fair demands from all professionals. On a proposal from the PCP, it is included in it the hiring of professionals who need the National Health Service — of all professionals, regardless of their category! Mr. Minister, today there is a need for a firm position of the Government, more specifically the Ministry of Health, to defend the National Health Service and the right to health, so that the policy that the PSD and the CDS want to transfer public response to the private and to increase the incomes of the large economic groups operating in the health sector is not pursued. Mr Minister, that is the position that the Portuguese demand, and that is the answer that it is necessary to give, and not to pursue the right-wing policy. It is necessary to say'sufficient' to the right-wing policy! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u160	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u161	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: Health problems, as I have already had the opportunity to mention, are not today, especially because of the underfinancing to which the SNS has been referred. But still, and in spite of everything, public investment in health continues to be lacking. In addition, it is still necessary to look at at at at least two other problems. The first problem concerns the situation of health professionals. On this subject, it is enough to recall what the PSD and CDS did with regard to the situation of health professionals: they led to the complete demobilization of these professionals, who ended up early leaving the National Health Service. We are talking about options from the previous government, which have also led to the strangulation of numerous services, given the enormous shortage of workers. The other problem has to do with the private interests that are installed and that make health a business. In fact, we continue to witness the growth of private health units and the progressive transfer of services and health units to private management. It is not necessary to make large accounts to realize that the creation and maintenance of public-private partnerships ( PPP ) in the area of health continues to represent a real and scary ice cream of public resources that could very well be channeled to the SNS. Instead, they remain comfortably fattening the market and promoting the profits of large economic groups with health interests. In fact, it is enough to see the direct transfers from the State budget to public-private partnerships to understand the size of these funds and the trend of their growth. The forecast for 2018 is that PPPs in health will cost the State more than 470 million euros, i.e. 5, 6 % of the budget for the SNS is transferred directly to PPPs, a value that is naturally removed from the SNS. I ask the Minister whether or not he considers it appropriate to consider the possibility of revising PPPs in the field of health and whether, in the Government's perspective, public-private partnerships are part of the problem or solution when we talk about the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u162	The Minister of Health has asked, and the Bureau has accepted, to bring together the time for the intervention which will follow with the intervention of closure, thus being globalised the times. Thus, the Government will not have time for further intervention. It will then, of course, remain the time for the intervention of the closure of the interpelent party, the PSD. You have the floor, Mr Health Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate on the health situation in Portugal is important. We would therefore expect the main opposition party to be able to do more than a mismanaged collection of photocopies from newspapers and, indeed, would not resist, in comparison, an equivalent dossier prepared in the time of its governance. Unfortunately, we are already getting used to the way our right is opposed: little structured, little prepared and much on top of the improvisation and what we call "the foam of the days", that is, speaks of what came out yesterday in the last headline. We have not heard a word about the idea that PSD has in relation to the sustained funding of the National Health Service, which has to say about budgeting or subordination, whether or not there are problems of improving the quality of operational management and whether the problem is placed only in a dichotomy of relationship between sectors and not in a strategic vision for the country. Unfortunately, the opposition has not said anything about this until now, and it is only a year and a half to arrive at the elections. Let us therefore look forward to good proposals on this side. With regard to working groups, it is worth comparing what has been done in the past and what is currently being done, because it is the current government that is preparing, with quality and time, a proposal for a basic health law and is the current government that has on the table, in fact in Parliament, a proposal for a new law for public health. That's it, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is structural and plans the SNS framework for the future. Mrs Teresa Caeiro repeated several times the hashtag « no memory». Mrs. Member, I would say that there is no memory for such a lack of memory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Your parliamentary group and, in particular, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto have the ability to dissociate and distance themselves from reality, which is indeed remarkable. I would say that they are no longer in the field of virtuals, they have gone to have the files of politics in the cloud and go there and look for them when there is a parliamentary debate to talk about concrete issues. Mrs Teresa Caeiro, there have never been so many patients with access to hepatitis C treatment—never! There has never been such access to hepatitis C medicines! The honourable Member asked what is the restriction on treatment. I am replying to you that you are not none, Madam Member. [[CDS-PP protests.]] On the other hand, Mrs Teresa Caeiro came here to talk about propaganda. Question : do you really want to discuss objective data? Do they pass a sponge on them? Do you have a sponge on the fact that there are 8000 more professionals? If there is more coverage of users by a family doctor? If there's better performance? If there are more than 25,000 surgeries? If there are another 1400 beds in integrated continuous care? We could be here all morning making a list, but you don't want to discuss it. Mrs Fatima Ramos, and I understand your concern, spoke of the towels of the Miranda de Corvo Health Centre. It is clear that this is a logistical management problem, it is poor logistics management of that area, which has to be improved. Let's get her better, let's see if it's for anything else. This is a problem that is important to resolve, but you will agree with me that it is not a strategic problem. The gentlemen. Mr Moisés Ferreira and Mr Carla Cruz raised a relevant issue, which is whether or not we have done everything to reduce the economic barriers to access by Portuguese with lower incomes and worse quality of life to health care. We've come a long way, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! We clearly have room to do more and I believe that, in the next budget, there will be room to discuss together what to do about limiting access through the economic barrier. But, Mrs Carla Cruz and Mr Moisés Ferreira, it is necessary to continue to improve the income of the poorest not only through rates or transport. And that's why when I say that, in the government, "we are all Centeno" is because Mário Centeno contributed with all of us, in the government, so that the country today had credibility,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... thinking of Portuguese and clearly demonstrating to the country, Europe and the world that there was another alternative, because the theory that there is no alternative is dead. That is why this generates so much anxiety and so much concern in the disorientated opposition benches. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Fatima Ramos, when we discuss access and concrete things, speaks of beautiful numbers. So it's like this: Miranda do Corvo's towels are a drama...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u164	What about Gaia's hospital?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u165	Mr President, I am replying to you about Gaia's hospital: this is the biggest investment gap in progress. Yesterday the proposals were opened: EUR 16 million for the second phase of the work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Sir, do you want to talk about Gaia? — more than 180 professionals in their time! You want to talk about Gaia? — the work of the ambulatory, the work of urgency, the pharmacy and the third phase which will be launched in September. But, Mr President, we in the government do not go after the media numbers prepared — many media numbers prepared, and there were them in their time too, Mr President! — we are looking at the needs of Portuguese and concrete policy. And our obligation is to respond to the problems of Portuguese with concrete measures. Let's not underestimate the success of public accounts! Let us not underestimate the improvement of the rating of the Republic! Let us not underestimate budgetary consolidation! Only irresponsible politicians can they think that they are defending public services by destroying the economy, destroying employment, making the country externally dependent. We, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we did not underestimate that, and it was not Minister Mário Centeno who did it, we were all Portuguese with his effort, Portuguese workers, Portuguese entrepreneurs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I understand, Mr. Ricardo Batista Leite, that this leaves you without an agenda, in the middle of a diarium of reasoning difficult to execute, because you have nowhere to go, are disoriented. But we are not disoriented and the proof is that the Portuguese know exactly what the way is: better economy, better employment and budgetary rigour are a fundamental prerequisite for good public services. We can announce the sustainability of public school or SNS at six months, or one year, or even in a legislative exercise, but this is not serious. We need to rebuild the country. And rebuild the country with whom? With whom most need, with those who, in order to go to the doctor, have to have access to free transportation, with those who, in order to go to a hospital or to a health centre, should not pay moderate fee. And let us be very clear in this debate that divides an idea: we do not, under any circumstances, defend the reduction of public health weight in the health system. We defend a stronger SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not, under any circumstances, defend the release of public sector responsibilities to the private sector. The private sector has its space, has its time and has its way of acting, has nothing to do with the public constitutional obligation of a strong National Health Service, which is effectively able to get closer to the citizens. But we are also not irresponsible to think that it is closing services, that it is diminishing the offer that we are more efficient. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u166	Many times, we are accused of paying services for specialized work—in fact, Mr Ricardo Batista Leite mentioned it—of 90 million or 100 million. Mr President, we prefer this to do what you have done, which has been to close services and no answers within, especially in situations of great difficulty. Mr Moisés Ferreira, the value of the medical services which has been referred to, has been mentioned recently publicly that it would give to hire 3000 doctors — it must be read in this measure: there are no 3000 doctors to hire. these doctors who are in service 80% are doctors who are in the National Health Service and who, outside their working hours, practice their professional activity in other hospitals, and are needed. There are no 3000 doctors to hire in the market! That's hypocrisy! It cannot be said that the government is spending on one side what should be spent on another. That's not true! As for specialist doctors and competitions, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, what I can tell you is that today we have more than 1900 specialist doctors in SNS in October 2015. The accounts are in fact done at the end because, in fact, in this competition of specialists, such as public knowledge, some tens of doctors were already hired, or for indoor hospitals, or because they had specialities of high differentiation, directly by the hospitals themselves. Today, we have more specialists than we had last year, much more than we had in 2015 and we will certainly have at the end of the legislature a number of specialists who, not being enough, will be closer to the needs of the SNS. Mrs. Carla Cruz spoke of Évora, but she could have spoken of Portimão, she could have spoken of the West. We are well aware of the political mapping of the difficulties, and that is why, Mrs Carla Cruz, who, at the end of so many years, was finally released the financial means and will be launched the contest for the new central hospital of Alentejo. It is that the setting of doctors also depends on working conditions, it also depends on new health centers, it also depends on hospitals that are modernized and able to attract a new generation of doctors who bet on their professional career at different points in Lisbon or Porto. We are convinced that the perspective of a new central hospital in Évora will contribute so that many doctors, at the time of choice, gradually begin to consider that Alentejo, Algarve and other regions of the country are also opportunities for work that can meet their professional expectations. Mr. José Luís Ferreira spoke about the investment issue. Mr President, I can no longer agree with you, but, see, 113 new health centres in the country will make all the difference. And I speak to you in an excellent example: Sintra. Four years ago, Sintra was a place of great difficulty in picking up and fixing family doctors. Today, Sintra is approaching coverage, I will not say total yet, but appropriate to family doctors. A huge effort has been made and, in collaboration with Sintra, is currently on the way to launch — it will start at the end of the year — the new Sintra-neighbourhood hospital. Yesterday it was published the door that restructures and requalifies the entire hospital region of Lisbon and Vale do Tejo. With the establishment of the nearest hospital in Sintra, the hospital center Fernando da Fonseca will be created, which, with the hospital centre Garcia de Orta, with the hospital near the Seixal and with the launch of the hospital in Eastern Lisbon, will finally allow to make in Lisbon a great structural reform that modernizes the hospital equipment and requalifies the circulation of users and citizens in the health system. In fact, Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members, a serious and independent analysis happily resists the exercise of the negative propaganda of those who, not having a political agenda, seek to build a virtual and not true agenda, of those who seek to make the case the rule, of those who forget what their time was.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u167	That's for the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u168	And, Mrs. Teresa Caeiro, don't talk about strikes. Does the honourable Member know that, at the same time as a term of office, 19 months during the government that his party supported between 2011 and 2015 there were twice as many strikes as there are today? Ladies and gentlemen, twice as much! [[CDS-PP protests.]] This means that, indeed, when we talk about social conflict — I would say social aggression — we certainly do not talk about this majority. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, another thing is to say that we have an obligation to negotiate with responsibility, that we will do, in negotiations with the unions, whatever we can do. But we will say with courage and truth to the unions that there are lines that we cannot overcome for now, because precisely this has been the success of this governance: an exercise of governance which, from a social point of view, takes into account the needs of people, but which realizes that the limitations we have have have have did not disappear with one step of magic one day to the other. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I end by leaving a warning, especially to the PSD and CDS benches: give greater attention to independent evaluation and external evaluation. On 6 April, the World Health Organization and the European Observatory of Health Systems will be in Portugal to make the intermediate preliminary presentation of what we ask, which was an external evaluation of policies, which means that the Government is always prepared to recognize what does good and what does bad, what is successful and what is unsuccessful, never misleading people and never confusing propaganda with reality. The guarantee that remains is that we are for the SNS, we are all SNS, we are all for the Portuguese. It is a strong, responsible and serious public finance policy that hurts you more and bothers you. Why? Because they weren't able to practice. on the contrary, they did everything to prevent it and, after passing the devil phase, now, of course, you remain only a metaphysical abstraction. And a metaphysical abstraction is no longer the devil, it is anything that exists in the stratosphere, that the Portuguese don't understand, because, Mr. President, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing that the country realizes today: the country does not understand the PSD and does not understand the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u169	You now have the floor to close the debate, Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u170	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Health, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The urgent debate on the health situation in Portugal by the PSD Parliamentary Group now ends. This was in fact a balance-sheet debate of a government and a majority that had been in power for two and a half years and had already approved three State budgets. Therefore, what is at stake today are the results of the policies of the Socialist Party, the Communist Party and the Left Block for the health sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u171	And the Greens!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u172	But what was heard was, on the one hand, the already usual policies and professions of faith of the Socialist Party, and on the other, the already usual and normal political incoherence of the PCP and the Left Block, which pretend to criticize a supportive government. You remind me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, those friends who, unfortunately today, are on the move in modern societies: lunch together, travel together, go shopping together, but then spend the rest of the month saying bad to each other and the way of life that each one takes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u173	That must be on the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u174	For the Government of the Socialist Party, the National Health Service is today much better than it was in 2015. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do the Portuguese ask: is it better to increase the average waiting time by a hospital consultation from 115 to 121 days? Is it better to be a patient waiting 1046 days for an ophthalmology consultation at Chaves hospital? Is it better to be a patient waiting 560 days for a neurosurgery consultation at the Faro hospital? Is it better to be a user to have to wait hours and hours by wire in the urgent hospital center of the Thamega and Sousa Valley to be cared for? Is it better for patients not to have access to the medication or treatments they need, hospitals are bursting by seams and hospitalized patients stay days and days in monkeys in the corridors, without a minimum of conditions and without a minimum of dignity? And they also ask the Portuguese: being better is public investment in the SNS dropped 27, 5 % between 2015 and 2017? Read: Today, the investment in the SNS is 27, 5 % below that which was in the full financial adjustment programme imposed by the troika that you put in here. [[PSD applause.]] Finally, for the Minister and for his Government, is it better to have public hospitals duplicate payments in more than one billion euros? Of course not! In addition, in an audit of the consolidated account of the Ministry of Health, the Court of Auditors concluded that the financial and economic situation of the SNS has deteriorated since 2015, and today - and I quote - « extremely weak ». The examples could, unfortunately, continue so that time would allow me. But in the face of such an imbalance, what does Mr. Minister of Health do? As already mentioned here, he submits himself to the firm hand of European Emperor Centeno, the same Minister who for three years denied him the means to avoid the collapses in which most SNS hospitals are located. Mr Minister, it took an hour for me to fix the nonsense or nonsense you said here. unlike the PCP, which says this without laughing—and I praise the political expertise— we say seriously: no, we are not all Centeno. We are SNS, we are users of the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Minister, it is appropriate to say that you have no real powers and that there are no deadlines for this government but the only real deadline that is your departure. [[PS laughter.]] In fact, it is curious to see something else: the Prime Minister himself recognises — and the words are his — that "the values budgeted for the health sector are insufficient to meet all needs".
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u175	It's always been like this!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u176	From the far left we don't even talk. The PCP and the Left Block pretend that nothing has to do with the health sector results. On the other hand, for three years they have successively approved the State budgets and political discharge is of such a order that, in this political debate, as has happened today, even it seems that they are really a party to the opposition, when they actually support this government. And worse than that, they continue to blame the PSD and the CDS — and they will probably continue to do so for another 20 years — what is the inconsequence of your actions and the inconsequence of your words in this Chamber. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that the CFP and the Left Block are as responsible for the situation of the SNS as the Socialist Party itself and the political irrelevance of the Minister of Health is already assumed by the generality of political agents and the social partners. It is appropriate to say that this is the Minister of Statistical Speech, but static.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u177	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u178	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Minister, whenever he comes here, announces measures, announces investment, announces debt payments and then the result is the sum of less one more, which is equal to nothing. It is pure political propaganda, propaganda that we denounce and that we do not shut up. Mr President, Minister, you have failed, the government has failed, but here will be the PSD, here will be our Members to raise their voice and defend the users of the SNS, because for us people are first. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u179	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this urgent debate. We move on to the next point in our agenda, which is from the evaluation of Decree-Law No 13 / 2018 of 26 February, which defines the legal regime of postgraduate medical training, designated as medical boarding, and establishes the general principles to which the respective procedure ( BE) should obey [ Parliamentary assessments No 55 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) and 54 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) ( BE) ]. For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : Start this intervention by warmly greeting medical students, present to attend the session, as well as young internal doctors. The CFP has addressed this discussion with the aim of correcting the serious rules and evils that have been approved by the Government in the medical boarding system. We present concrete proposals to restore the continuity of the training process, to prevent the existence of undifferentiated doctors and the payment of proof, as well as the proof of seriality, rather than selective evidence. Decree-Law No 13 / 2018 gives a harsh blow to the existing medical training process in Portugal and deepens the evils that had been introduced in 2015 by the PSD and the CDS. The diploma guarantees and establishes the existence of non-differentiated doctors when it provides that, at the end of 12 months — i.e. at the end of the general training — doctors may independently exercise medicine. The existence of undifferentiated doctors is synonymous with cheap labour, less rights, destruction of medical careers and a factor of professional and social devaluation of doctors. But the existence of undifferentiated physicians does not only affect professionals; it also has impacts on the National Health Service and the quality of care provided to users. It was the continuity of the training process and the existence of specialists who allowed the recognition of medical training that is taught in Portugal and technical and scientific innovation made it possible to go further in the care provided. Just as it was the National Health Service and its professionals, responsible for guiding the training, which allowed such recognition. Therefore, we also propose that the work done by the tutors be duly valued. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the proposals now presented, we have not created a new regime of medical care, as the CFP defends it and has already presented here, but we have contributed to the most harmful aspects for medical training, for doctors, for the National Health Service and for users to be overcome. PCP proposals prevent the degradation of specialized medical training, medical careers and the destruction of the National Health Service. They are another contribution of the PCP to defend the rights of professionals, doctors, users and to strengthen the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u181	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u182	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, to greet medical students and internal doctors who are fighting for the right to their specialization and for the work we have done together to reverse those that are the most dangerous changes to the regime of medical detention. There are no doctors in the National Health Service! Of course, many other professionals are missing — nurses, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, senior health technicians, operational assistants, technical assistants — but today we are talking about the medical care system, that is, the training of doctors. And this must be the first finding. Medical specialists in the National Health Service are missing. There are missing anesthetists to ensure the operation of operating blocks, lack internalists to ensure medical services in hospitals, lack emergency specialists, lack ophthalmologists, dermatologists, otorhinolaryngologists to reduce waiting lists for consultation. Family doctors are missing 700,000 users. However—and this is the paradox— that since 2015 there have been hundreds of newly licensed doctors who are unable to access specialized training. In 2015, there were 114 ; in 2016, they were l58 ; in 2017, they were more than 340. In a few years, thousands will be wasted, even though they need a lot. This situation is absurd and it was possible—in fact, it was enhanced—by the legal regime of the medical hospital promoted by the PSD and the CDS exactly in 2015. This legal regime has become an instrument of attack on specialized training, has reduced vacancies, for example by eliminating preferential vacancies, and has promoted the production of non-differentiated persons and the exercise of unskilled medicine. Although in January of this year the Assembly of the Republic has approved, even though with the abstentions of the PS and the PSD, an initiative of the Left Block for the replacement of the training continuity in medical training and for the guarantee of vacancies for all doctors to be able to do their specialization, the current Government has decided to publish a new legal regime where in many respects it deepens the errors already contained in the previous PSD and CDS regime. We recognize as positive the replacement of preferential vacancies and the limitation of the hours of urgency to which an intern is required. But we cannot help but regard other proposed amendments as very negative. For example, the total and absolute separation between general and specific training, which will only deepen the problem of the number of undifferentiated doctors. With this wording of the current government, the specialty becomes seen as an exception and not as a rule, and this cannot happen; negative changes such as creating barriers to access to specialized training, for example, with payment to be able to make the proof of access; or as is the case with the punitive and counter-productive approach to filling the preferred vacancies. For all this, the Left Block called for the parliamentary review of the Decree-Law published by the Government on 26 February, because we want to promote the training of specialized doctors, because we believe that, on behalf of users and the quality of health services, the specialization of doctors should be the rule rather than the exception, because we want to eliminate the possibility of payment to make the proof of access to the specialty, because we want to captivate and fix prisoners in areas lacking through incentives and because we want to give better conditions to training guides. We tabled 28 amendments to the proposal for a health care scheme with this certainty: we cannot continue to waste resources! We cannot continue to prevent the formation of hundreds of specialists when they are so lacking in the National Health Service. [[BE Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u183	Mr Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members : I address a special compliment to medical students attending the session. I will quote a former Prime Minister and begin by saying the following: when we want to be consistent we cannot be original every day. This is a matter so debated and replicated in this House that I will say exactly what I said in the last three or four times that this matter has been brought here repeatedly since you are government and the left to support them. I'm going to say it in four private notes. First note: it is obviously harmful and an authentic fraud of expectations, both for students and for their families and, even worse, highly harmful for the National Health Service what is the waste of rivers of money in medical training without then there is a consequence in specialized medical training that precisely these students and young people ambitious and legitimately need SNS users.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u185	Who changed the regime? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u186	Second note: Parliamentary Groups of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Block of Left say a fallacy. In fact, they repeat it until exhaustion waiting for it to be true one day, and that is the following: they say that the number of undifferentiated doctors has reached their peak and say that, in fact, as it is usual in everything that happens in this House, the great responsibility is the PSD / CDS government. But I remember the ladies. Members, like what I have already done in the last three debates, that in 2015 there were 114 young doctors without access to specialized medical training, in 2016 there were 118 and, in 2017, according to the Medical Order, there were between 200 and 300. During your government, of your responsibility, the number of doctors without access to specialized medical training tripled. So my questions are the following: we even praise this Parliamentary assessment, but, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the consequences? Will you continue to support the Minister of Health? Continue to support this government?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u187	Will the PSD support the government with the Decree? Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u188	Be calm, Mr. Deputies, don't get angry. The government says it is unavailable to reduce the training offer. But is it available to invest?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u189	How will you vote on parliamentary assessments?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u190	Third note: we are, of course, against the establishment of economic barriers to access to specialized medical training, especially since it does not guarantee effective access to true specialized training and does not guarantee the lack of economic capacity of some students. Fourth and last note, Mr President: planning medical training in Portugal is also a recurring issue and problem, so there must be political courage and the government must do what it has to do, which is to make decisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u191	But will the PSD or not support the government with this Decree-Law? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u192	in this sense, the government and the Minister of Health are or are not...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u193	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u194	I will finish, Mr. President. Whether or not the Government and the Minister of Health are available to tell civil society that they want to reduce the number clauses in medical universities or, before, they will be available to face the left, with ideological prejudice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u195	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u196	...and ensure specialized medical training, extending it to more private entities? Oh, my God! What about the judges? Give us that answer, please. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u197	in what is negative for internal doctors, there is the PSD supporting the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u198	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr João Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service has been able to guarantee the highest quality medical training, internationally recognized, to almost all those who complete the degree in Medicine. In recent years, numbers have never been observed before: between 2015 and 2018, more are 761 candidates, with a 39 % variation. The National Health Service cannot absorb all for specialized training. The system is not elastic and, although in 2017 the record has been struck, in number of vacancies, for access to the specialty—more 12 % or more 189 vacancies compared to 2015—the system is saturated and cannot absorb more candidates. The opening of more vacancies will have a negative impact on the quality of training of internal physicians. It is the quality of training that is at stake. The scenario is this: a gradual and almost exponential evolution of candidates and the saturation of training. This surplus between candidates and training capacity must be seen as a problem that lacks clear, concrete planning that identifies the future needs and the training capacity of the SNS. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Decree-Law here under parliamentary review resulted in a thoughtful and extensive discussion with the Order of Doctors, trade union structures and National Council of Medical Internal Affairs (CNIM) and introduce important amendments, contrary to what has been said here. In particular, two aspects are introduced at the medical institution: general training and speciality. The general training has finally allowed the exercise of medicine autonomously to all those who finish this stage of training, ending the suspension, in a way of uncertainty or dependence, of all those who do not get vacant in the specialty. The first amendment of the national access test model ( NAP) is made by amending a model of almost 40 years old, inadequate and obsolete — the Harrison model — which will be replaced by a more clinical evaluation model. To this end, a professional office will be created, which will naturally involve costs that can be shared by candidates with a symbolic value, which will certainly be lower than the one that currently has to pay for the manuals in order to be able to study, particularly Harrison ’ s, and which will certainly not represent the barrier of access to the specialty. The return to preferential and protocol vacancies in hospitals deprived of high importance, the limitation of overtime hours to additional 12 hours per week, and the limitation of 12 hours per week in the emergency service and of 150 hours per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u200	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u201	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party believes that the Decree-Law under consideration is guided by the continuity of the high quality of medical training, while introducing necessary changes and innovations. Our commitment will be to continue monitoring and monitoring the medical training process, in order to strengthen its response capacity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u202	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u203	... but cautioning the principles of the quality of training, patient safety and access equity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u204	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the medical students and the doctors who are attending this debate because, in fact, it is a matter of the greatest relevance, as we have said, and therefore we have put forward concrete proposals on the questions of medical care. More: we have reaffirmed that medical internships are a structural instrument for us and for the Portuguese, of the quality of care in and out of the SNS, and we have also called attention to the fact that medical training in our country must be properly planned in the short, medium and long term and not subject to impulsive and avulsive measures that harm a training course that must be consistent and consistent. What we have also said is that this new law, which has some positive aspects, clearly has a very detrimental aspect to the training of new doctors. And we want to draw attention to aspects that depend on this government. We do not sing here the fact that it is the fault of others — a fairy whom you really like to sing — because it is this minister who has responsibilities for a set of subjects that aim to ensure adequate training capacity in the services and not compromise speed in opening medical contests, so that later doctors do not stay, months on end, as it has already happened, waiting for the opening of competitions, when we are effectively against the indifference of doctors in the National Health Service. We wanted here to note with regret that the PCP and the Left Block have not presented this issue in the debate that has yet ended,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u206	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u207	... because it would be a very, very interesting way to realize your inconsistencies, which is to be here demanding, to point your finger to the government and then to support and approve budgets that enable these policies. We regret that they have not done so, but we want to say something to the Left Block and the PCP: we do not have ideological prejudices—... [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] We have already said so many times, and we recognize that the proposals presented here today represent more value in relation to the proposal that the Government has put forward. Therefore, in conclusion, we want to welcome this debate, saying that it is unthinkable that medical training is compromised and that doctors' indifference to the National Health Service is fed. For the CDS, the training of doctors is first, insofar as it is in fact a structural element for the good quality of care in the SNS, the SNS why we all fight. And we did not come here on the second, fourth and sixth, saying that it is wrong and then on the third, on the fifth and on the Sabbath to enable government policies that call into question that same quality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u208	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by saying that these diplomas, either the Decree-Law or the Portaria that has been published, have a clear intention by the Ministry of Health, which is to ensure the excellence of medical training. I would also like to reinforce that, in preparing these diplomas, which lasted more than a year, it was discussed its content with the two doctor's unions, the Medical Order, the National Medical Internal Affairs Council and the National Association of Medical Students (ANEM), which I take advantage of to congratulate as they are present here to attend this debate. It was the first time that medical students sat with the Ministry of Health to discuss a degree on medical boarding school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to underline the many advantages of this new diploma. In addition to some simplification, from a legal point of view, it recovers the general training facility, which, I stress, in the previous diploma was supposed to end the common year, and then, yes, we would train doctors without any autonomy. But this new diploma has several other advantages that it is worth stressing. For the first time, we set the annual limit of 150 hours for additional work, which did not exist. For the first time, we have established a maximum of 12 hours per week of urgency, possibly an extra 12 hours per week of urgency, which did not exist either. In fact, because of this, the inmates made urgent demands on emergencies, without any limit. For the first time, we established the system of compensatory breaks, which the inmates did not have. For the first time, we set a value of 3 hours per week for training guides to provide support to the interns. There was no period for this. For the first time, we will standardize the notes of access to general training boarding schools and specific training boarding schools, which did not exist either. For the first time, we're going to change the national access test. It is true that 10 years ago and 15 years ago they were discussing their need, but they had never had the courage or ability to do it, and we are going to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the question of vacancies, I would like to stress here two or three questions, the first of which is that we are all opening up — I repeat, all! — forms of training continuity. And it is a guarantee that the Ministry of Health leaves it in this House: we will continue to open so many vacancies as many doctors who recognize themselves have training capacity. in this sense, I would like to stress that this year, 1758 vacancies were opened for specific training, the largest number ever in the SNS, and we will continue to do so - is the guarantee that we leave here. The only condition, of course, is formative fitness. We want doctors to have quality in their training, because that is certainly the defence and safety of citizens, and that we will not abdicate. On the question of national proof of access and of such office which has been formed — I suppose that until today the diploma that has been awarded to it has been published — it will have the functions of coordinating and developing the evidence and, above all, ensuring its technical and scientific suitability. I recall that the committee that developed this new approach always assumed, as one of its bases, that there was a structured and professional office. And the objective was clear: that the evidence had a level of excellence. We want to change the test, but for better and not worse, which means that the cabinet has to have capacity and has to have training, logistical conditions and even external support so that the test is, of course, solid, credible and fair but, above all, just for those who will do it. It is true that it was established in the Decree-Law the principle of the possible possibility of having a value for this purpose, but this value had two conditions: first, it had to be a symbolic value; second, it had to be a value only dedicated to the office itself, i.e. it was not money or value that could or could not provide the Ministry of Health, it was a specific value for the office. I remember that the office consists of three entities — Order of Doctors, medical schools and, of course, also the Ministry of Health — but that value had only one clear objective: to guarantee the quality of the test. And ensure the quality of the evidence, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it means, in practice, ensuring fairness and justice for future doctors and ensuring, at the same time, security for citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u210	To close this item on our agenda, I now have the floor, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The CFP does not propose a change in what it considers to be positive, such as the aspects mentioned here. We do not change the maximum ceiling of extraordinary hours, we do not change the maximum 12 hours of urgency, we do not change the compensatory breaks, because we consider these to be positive aspects of this Decree-Law. What the CFP intends to change are the aspects it considers harmful and that will guarantee the existence of undifferentiated doctors. And, Mr Secretary of State, there is no autonomy at the end of 12 months of general training, there is autonomy after specialized training, after the training of medical specialists, because that is what guarantees the provision of health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u212	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u213	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying the following: without a structural boarding school, doctors will provide a worse service. And it's not the PCP that says it, it's a set of doctors who sent a letter to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u214	I'll see you soon!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u215	Even to conclude, Mr President, what is clear in this debate is that the PSD will join the Government to enable a Decree-Law that does not support students attending the plenary session.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u216	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u217	What the PSD here did was another stage! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u218	Mrs. Members, before we move on to the next item on today's agenda, I would like to inform the House that they have put forward proposals for amendment to the Decree-Law which has been under consideration by the two parties which have brought about this parliamentary assessment, the CFP and the Left Block, and that these amendments are down to 9. the Commission. Let us then move on to the next point of our order of business, which is generally appreciated by the projects of lein.o 757 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 38 / 2007 of 16 August approving the legal regime for the evaluation of the quality of higher education ( BE) and 813 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and construction of university residences ( PCP ), together with draft resolution No 1449 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Proposals for measures to combat job insecurity in higher education institutions ( CFP ). To open the debate and present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is the general consensus that the provision of indicators and data that allow us to formulate a broad idea and a map on the situation of higher education is highly positive. It is positive because it actually allows us to evaluate the quality of higher education and subsequently the quality of higher education institutions. However, the law that fits this quality assessment is over 10 years old and has not been revised until today. Let's look at two factors that are not yet listed in this diploma. First factor: university residences. Today, a house or a room costs twice as much as 10 years ago in the main cities of the country, where also are the universities and polytechnics that include today more students in higher education. It costs twice, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The average income of a house in Lisbon or in Porto today rounds the 450 € — an average income! Real estate speculation has actually driven hundreds of students out of the cities where they want to study. Let us look at the news that, in the last year, or in the last two or three years, has come out in this regard. They increase house prices, students seek an answer in university residences, but, in fact, the answers of the universities themselves are scarce for the number of requests. The other factor relates to precariousness. We have already had the opportunity to discuss part of these issues in plenary and in the Committee on Education and Science. And the numbers that the General Secretariat of Education and Science presents to us do not lie, make exposed a fracture often hidden by those responsible for the institutions. Let us look, for example, at one of these statistical data. Only 1 % of researchers up to 30 years are integrated into the career. I repeat, only 1 % of researchers are part of the career, those who are under 30 years of age. The question is not only imposed on the principals but also on all political leaders in various areas, whether from the governmental or the executive point of view, or from the point of view of the responsibilities of each of the institutions. It makes sense, for the Left Block, 10 years after the approval of the law that evaluates the quality of higher education, to place as two new factors, first, the question of universities and polytechnics may also be evaluated by the amounts invested in their network of university residences and, second, the accountability of these same universities and polytechnics for combating precariousness, placing as criteria of their evaluation the quality of recruitment. It is an imperative of our times, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a line that separates those who say they do what they say and do. from the part of the Block, we know that a consistent action in this matter holds all political agents accountable and this bill also has the function of solving the problem in this regard. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u220	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation in public higher education and the various problems facing us today are largely due to the chronic underfunding to which the institutions have been condemned by the options of successive governments, which have in common the fact that they have always converged in the practice of right-wing policy. For this reason, the CFP has already presented initiatives that resolve the substantive issues, including a new law on higher education financing and a Framework Law on School Social Acão. But let us not hesitate to intervene in urgent matters that need immediate solutions. This is the case with the issues we are bringing about today, with two initiatives that propose measures to combat job insecurity in higher education institutions and for the requalification and construction of university residences. We defend that no one is left behind in the fight against precariousness, not only by taking advantage of the current Programme of Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ( PREVPAP ) but by effectively applying the principle that a permanent job has to correspond to an effective link. Thus, we believe that the conditions need to be created so that workers who were considered ineligible for PREVPAP due to lack of academic qualification, even though they perform the current functions as permanent necessity without this same qualification, can complete the process of obtaining the academic degree necessary to their binding. We have reported several situations of workers in this situation, and we therefore feel that urgent action needs to be taken. We also propose the extension of the deadline provided for in the transitional scheme for the teaching career of the polytechnic for all cases where the law providing for the educational reduction is not being complied with, making it impossible for teachers to have the time needed for the completion of their doctorate. The school overtime is already almost normal in the polytechnics and universities for staff invited in part-time and full-time, thus being reflected in the provision of service regulations of the institutions. We know, for complaints from several teachers, that, most of the time, the school hours in excess do not appear in the service distributions prepared at the beginning of the school year, however, altered in their course. By means of more or more veiled threats by the institutions, the fact is that this results in the precious time amputation of these teachers that cannot be compensated if the hourly overload simply ends today. Another issue we bring here concerns the urgency felt by higher education students in relation to the lack of accommodation in public homes, as well as the degradation of facilities in several of these homes. This was, in fact, one of the claims brought to the streets in the protests of students held at various points in the country last week. The lack of beds in residences and the lack of residences in the poles and schools that supersede housing needs are a real barrier to the frequency of higher education, and it is unchallenged who thinks that this is a meaningful problem only in Lisbon and Porto. Therefore, we propose that a plan be made to requalify and construct residences, in particular to ensure that residences are built, when they do not exist in the higher education institution and when university or polytechnic has faculties or schools in various municipalities where there are no residences. To that end, what we are advocating is that the Government must assume its responsibility to transfer annually to the institutions the funds necessary for the maintenance, requalification and the construction of residences. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u222	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Block and the CFP today bring initiatives on two topics, university residences and precariousness in higher education. I'm starting with precariousness. There are currently two government instruments for combating precariousness in higher education, Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July 2017 on scientific employment, and the law of PREVPAP. Both have been discussed in detail in Parliament, both have been approved by the Bloc and the CFP and they are running very hard from the point of view of the results.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u224	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u225	The CDS has also reported many problems and has sought to help clarify the many issues that these two instruments raise. But what makes no sense is to use files, as the Block proposes, to pretend that the problem is being solved, until, with great probability, the articles that the Block here proposes will have no consequences. In the case of the PCP, it seeks to reopen laterally the dossier of the transitional standard in the polytechnics which, in our view and at the end of more than 10 years, is already a closed matter. In the case of university residences, the situation is different. We know, yes, that there is a lack of residence in some areas, we know that in Lisbon and Porto, real estate pressure has made the situation more acute, but, in fact, there is no mapping of the total situation of the country, nor of the projection for the next few years. We therefore agree with the CFP that there is a problem here, but we understand that it has to be defined zone by zone, rather than creating cross-cutting solutions. Neither transversal nor centralizing solutions, because we cannot understand that municipal chambers are excluded, which will certainly have an interest and a relevant role in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u226	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u227	But, above all, we disagree about the Block and how it binds surpluses on the management balances of educational institutions above the offer of residences. If institutions have high management balances, it is legitimate that they have to explain why and where they intend to use these surpluses. But one cannot create a mechanism of these which basically tells those who can manage their budget well that will not have autonomy to use it as legitimately understood or, then, that the State will then appropriate the surplus generated each year and, at the same time, signal to those who do not manage well that it does not have penalty and, on the contrary, will receive support from the State later. It is the wrong signs and it is a backwardness in the autonomy of the institutions which, at the very least, must be subject to more effective accountability. For these reasons, we will not follow the projects presented here today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u228	Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u229	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the proposal of the left block bill introduces an additional evaluation parameter that applies not to all higher education institutions but only to those who have management balances, to apply in two aspects that concern us all: student housing and the stability of the teaching and non-teaching bodies of higher education institutions. Student housing is a serious problem, we all know, particularly in regions with high population pressure. Income paid by displaced students, who do not get a vacancy in residences, assume absolutely unacceptable funds and are a heavy cost to families. Of course, this issue deserves particular attention from this House and, therefore, with regard to the proposal which the CFP also makes, we see that the issue of mapping is something extremely important and must be made. The stability of the workers' bodies, considering in particular the mission of higher education institutions, structural ageing and the question of precariousness, is a legitimate concern, although we have great objections to the proposals made. Other criteria could be used for the evaluation, such as the adaptation of inclusive spaces, the creation of sustainability conditions for non-competitive offers, etc. The proposal that the Block makes is not new. [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]] This proposal was made in November and dropped in the context of the State budget. The question is not in the concerns which you allegedly want to resolve but in the fact that you do not solve them and, above all, in the way you want to do it. The attack on balances began to be first-hand by the Minister of Finance in November, which,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u230	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u231	... failing to understand that higher education institutions could autonomously have balances to use in their management, he intended to justify failure to comply with the legislative agreement signed by the Government by the existence of balances, simply saying that, if they had balances, they did not need the government to transfer their wages to them, until they could give way to the deficit. This idea of attacking those with balances was backed up, with some different shades, by other populist speeches, with which we do not agree. The strike on balances has two problems: first, it encourages spending positions to arrive at the end of the year without balances... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u232	... and, secondly, completely ignores the functioning of higher education institutions. The balances are charged at expenses, as a result of multi-year projects, serve to advance payments. Should institutions therefore account for balances, particularly when there is excessive accumulation, without investment? Yes! But the goal is that everyone has balances and attacks the balances is to attack the autonomy of universities. We voted against this proposal in November and will vote against it now, because it contains a trap against university autonomy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u233	First of all, I ask the ladies and gentlemen. PS Members who are quick to accommodate so that we can continue the work. [[Pause.]] Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing two important issues for higher education, student residences and work insecurity today. As for the proposals on university residences, we share the concern and objective. Conforming to the State Budget for 2018, the Government is developing an action plan for housing in higher education, which they already know about the CRUP (Council of Rectors of Portuguese Universities) and the CCISP (Council Coordinator of Political Higher Institutes ), with a strong commitment to rehabilitation, articulated with the broader approach of urban rehabilitation, which, frankly, seems to us the most sustainable way. As regards the fight against precarious employment, not only but also in higher education and science, this is a task that has always been taken up by this government and by this majority. It is the diploma of scientific employment to replace fake scholarships with career access prospects; it is the so-called "transitional system of polytechnic education" for access to the teaching career of those who, within a reasonable time, complete the required qualifications and who, according to the Committee on Education, reported a few days ago, the Coordinating Council of the Higher Institutes of Polytechnics has already covered more than 1000 teachers. It is now the review of the legal regime of degrees and diplomas which is under public discussion and which promotes a structural fight against precariousness, because it depends on the accreditation of cycles of studies in a much greater integration of the teaching body in the career, because it stimulates the development of careers to higher categories, because it requires that a certain number of academic responsibilities can only be assumed by teachers or career researchers. It is also PREVPAP that applies to workers who cumulatively meet permanent needs and do not have an appropriate link. Therefore, in higher education and science, PREVPAP must also be used to combat abuse. For example, we are against the abuse of the guest teacher figure, but this figure is suitable for many situations as provided for the statutes of teaching careers. In order for PREVPAP to meet its objectives, we must be rigorous in its implementation. A higher education teacher will certainly not want to enter the career without the appropriate qualifications or bypassing the statutory rules for career access. Certainly, no one will defend that PREVPAP is used as a shortcut to circumvent the rules of the careers themselves, since it was designed precisely to value them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u235	Combating precariousness is not a simple task, nor an easy one. It is really not easy to change an intrinated logic that mistakenly conceives precariousness as a management facility. That is why we cannot harm this fight, adding uncertainty to it. To recommend that the Government act differently from what is in the law is to harm PREVPAP, as once again changing the deadlines for the transitional policy regime is also to increase uncertainty and harm this immense work. It is this firm determination to apply faithfully the existing instruments of combating precariousness that guide our action and that will guide our vote as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u236	Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u237	Mr President, very quickly I wanted to say that it seems curious to us that the CDS comes to speak in a possibility of municipalization of residences.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u238	That's your sentence!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u239	the way you put the question most seems to be advocating the deresponsibility of the government, transferring another charge to the municipal chambers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u240	That's your sentence!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u241	The fundamental issue is that the government must take responsibility for it. The State, the central administration, must be responsible for this part of the construction of the residences and for its maintenance, and this is what we propose. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u242	You have to finish, Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u243	I will finish, Mr. President. We do not disagree with the principle that there is the possibility of mapping what needs to be done, and therefore, if that is the question for PSD and CDS, in particular, we will certainly be available to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u244	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u245	In conclusion, Mr President, I would also like to say that it seems to us that 'uncertainty', Mr Porfirio Silva, is also what people live every day when they see the possibilities for solving the specific problems of precariousness disappear because there are rules and situations that are not envisaged. That was the idea we also wanted to mention here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u246	To conclude this item on the agenda, you have the floor for a telegraphic speech, Mr Luís Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u247	Mr President, we can leave everything in the same, in an immobilist position, but the position of the Left Block is exactly the opposite: this law for the evaluation of higher education institutions must also implement criteria for the fight against precariousness and for the increase in the number of university residences, which is scarce at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u248	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u249	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that the CDS comes here and says: "Well, in fact, this Block proposal can even have no consequence", which does not have the CDS proposal, which does not even exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u250	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u251	It's important to have a proposal. If the PSD wants to include reduced mobility issues here, we will do it. But you don't have any proposals on the table either. So, for the parties of immobilism, here will be the Left Block to give an answer to these teachers, researchers and students. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u252	Mrs. Members, we finish the discussion of the projects of lein.os 757 and 813 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and draft resolution No 1449 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). We now move on to point four of our agenda today, which consists in the evaluation of draft resolutions Nos 1391 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make urgent regulation of the Organic Law No 4 / 2017 of 25 August approving and regulating the special procedure for access to telecommunications and Internet data by the Information Officers of the Security Information Service and the Strategic and Defence Information Service and makes the second amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Organisation of the Judicial System Act ) ( CDS-PP ) and 1392 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the completion of the process of classification of national critical infrastructures and the process of validation of operator safety plans by the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System ( CDS-PP ). For the presentation of these legislative initiatives, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u253	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of the House and VV. For example: today, at the end of our work, we shall vote a vote of regret and a vote of praise presented by the CDS, regarding the terrorist attack this week in Carcassonne, France, with more fatal victims.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u254	And above them they have access to metadata!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u255	We know that Copenhagen, Champs Elysios, Nice, Berlin, Barcelona, Finland, Marseille are just a few examples of what has happened in European soil in the last three years and that 349 have been killed by terrorist attacks. On the other hand, yesterday we discussed the inability of, not to be for anticipation, to anticipate and react to tragedies which, today, in some cases, are caused by extreme climatic conditions and which can, of course, be fires, or an earthquake — to reach our critical infrastructures also threatened by theoretically terrorist attacks, and are at the mercy of these situations if they do not have their fully defined and detailed safety plans.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u257	On the other hand, I would add, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we are watching, and this is one of the debates of the day and the hour, to an intense spying and counter-expioning activity in which, even a Portuguese spy has been, is public, bribed. Imagine by whom! It won't be too hard to understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u258	Don't say bad about Russia that Paulo Portas pulls his ears!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u259	So, in this context, what do we want, what do we want? May our information services be able to act as best and as competent as possible. I would say to you, to whom it seems that these matters have fun, but do not have any fun, that some of these information services have — and indeed, most of the European information services have access even to telephone interceptions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u260	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u261	And we are talking about countries where the threat is much greater than in Portugal. It is important that these services in Portugal have access to the minimum of the minimums, which is, of course, the list of communications, to combat a possible terrorist threat or even to spying phenomena in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u262	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u263	In other words, it is important for our information services to know, at least, who enters Portugal, whom you have spoken to, whom you have contacted, what are the contacts you have had. It's the least. in this sense, the CDS presented a proposal, which at the time was accompanied by the government, and the so-called'metadata access law' was adopted about eight months ago, is from August last year. What is not understood is that depending on the regulation of the government, regulations which will start in Mr. Prime Minister's office itself, it is not done. That is why our proposal, of course, goes as far as it is concerned — I am looking for the best word — to ask, urge, suggest, to require the Government to regulate a subject which is recognised by all — is recognised by the Supervisory Board, is recognised by the directors of the information services, is recognised by everyone in this area — as a minimum and essential to help our information services to protect Portuguese. So this is the point of our draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u264	You have to finish, Mr. Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u265	I'm done now, Mr. President. The same is true of critical infrastructures, that is, we do not want to know how many plans there are or where they are, until this is classified matter, as it is obvious. We want the government to ensure that all safety plans for critical energy infrastructure, transport, airports, etc. , in Portugal they are drawn up.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u266	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u267	The only way to predict situations is by anticipation. Mr President, I end with this sentence: we can guarantee security only in advance. And with the safety of the Portuguese you can't play in any way, and you need to guarantee it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u268	Mr António Gameiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject covered in this field includes sensitive and classified information. The process of identification and designation of national critical infrastructures is a dynamic process, as the resolution itself underlines, but also determines a frequent variation of these facilities and its total number. Therefore, in order to respond to Mr Telmo Correia already, as regards the identification of the designation of these national critical infrastructures, in particular of the sectors he referred to — transport, energy and the Galileo system itself, I must say that there is already work done by the Government and the information we have will soon be classified as such in accordance with the law itself ( National Civil Protection Authority ). Enlargement to other sectors, which the draft resolution emphasises, also depends on the legal framework; a legislative amendment is necessary for this to happen. Finally, I would like to remind you that the process of identifying and designating these national critical infrastructures is dynamic and therefore no definitive total number can be presented. Finally, on the procedures for validating the operator's safety plans by the General Secretariat of the System for Internal Security, it should be noted that those plans are in fact responsible for doing so and that many of them are in the process of validation. Therefore, ultimately, they depend on their submission to their operators and on their action so that they can be analyzed and validated. With regard to resolution No 1391 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), on the law of access to metadata, we understand the CDS well. The CDS comes here to speak of a law after, together with the PSD, it has presented a legislative initiative in the previous Parliament, to which we gave our favourable vote, which had the veto of the Constitutional Court. The law was declared unconstitutional, and therefore there is no favor to anyone, as they tried to say in social communication. The PS does not favor parties, nor anyone. The PS assumes its responsibilities. It was therefore with responsibility that we already approved, with your support, a new law, which should not be ignored and on which the Government is working to have a proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u270	Eight months ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u271	But they should also not be unaware that at the moment there is an appeal to be examined and assessed in the Constitutional Court...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u272	One thing has nothing to do with the other!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u273	...and, therefore, responsibility also requires that we do not make doorkeepers and regulations in a situation where they may then have unconstitutionalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u274	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u275	I therefore believe that legislative stability, the political responsibility with which the government has been guided in this matter must give us...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u276	You have to finish, Mr. Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u277	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, the political responsibility with which the government has been guided in this area must give us a safeguard so that we can say that we understand the position of the CDS-PP. However, the concern is great. With regard to all that you have just said, we do what you say, but we have to trust that we will soon have results with clear and constitutional legislative options within the framework of our political and legal system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u278	For an intervention, Mr Luís Marques Guedes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The two draft resolutions, presented by the CDS-PP, are part of an issue that is of greatest relevance to our country and that has to do with the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy, subjects that have long been planned and that are the most relevant objectives of this National Strategy. In the first case, with regard to the protection and safety plans of critical infrastructures, it must be remembered that one year ago, in May last year, it was approved in this House, on a proposal from the PSD, with favourable votes from the Socialist Party and the CDS and abstentions from the PCP and the Left Block, i.e. it had not voted against any bench, the recommendation to the Government to keep up-to-date and prepare plans for the safety of national critical infrastructures. Now, it happens that, a year ago, the government has moved forward in this area, but it still doesn't have everything. So what we are doing here today — and well, from my point of view, because the strategy to combat terrorism is a permanent strategy — is to remind the Government of the need to speed up this work, which is permanent, as has been said and well, but which cannot be neglected under any circumstances. I must say that it was with great astonishment that I heard the argument, now from Mr António Gameiro, that there is a legal remedy in the Constitutional Court. Mr. Deputies, the law is in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u280	There are six or seven unconstitutional situations!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u281	The fact that there is or does not appeal does not strictly alter anything! [[PS Member Protests António Gameiro.]] If there is any declaration of unconstitutionality, here will be the organs needed to overcome this problem. However, it is unacceptable, it is unforgivable that at the end of eight months' duration of a law, which was promulgated by the President of the Republic with a message to the Assembly of the Republic, where he said that he did so in view of the enormous relevance to the defence of the rule of law, the regulation is not done. The law provides that this regulation, which is necessary for the proper implementation of these principles, must be preceded by an opinion of the Supervisory Board of the Republic's Assembly on Information Services and the Higher Information Council, and none of this has happened. We are on the verge of April and none of this has happened, it is unforgivable! Therefore, in this regard, I think it is necessary to recommend to the Government, very vehemently, that the regulation be speeded up so that Portugal is not the only European country to have information services without access to this fundamental tool in combating terrorism. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u282	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These two draft resolutions, presented by the CDS, deserve us various considerations and meanings of vote. So let's separate things: first, I'm talking about the draft resolution on metadata and then about the draft resolution on critical infrastructures. We know that the CDS has always defended the access of the information services to so-called « metadata », and so it has contributed to the approval, in the past legislature, of a diploma which has been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court — only one of the advisers voted against, with the result being 12 to 1, which was, it is important to recognize, a significant majority obtained in the Constitutional Court in relation to the unconstitutionality of what they have approved — and, in this legislature, for the approval of a law whose constitutionality is in question, as you know, for an appeal which has been brought before the Constitutional Court and which is under consideration. The arguments which Mr Telmo Correia has brought here, concerning the tragedies that have recently occurred with terrorist attacks in Europe, are not particularly useful for this discussion, because the information services of these countries have access to metadata, which shows that it is not that situations of these, when they occur, can be avoided.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u284	So, it's best not to do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u285	So, that argument, let's say, it's worth what it's worth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u286	It's best not to do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u287	Now, what is significant is that we cannot, responsibly, ignore that this issue is under consideration in the Constitutional Court and that it is not advisable to create realized facts which may come in the future—we do not know, but may become—unauthorised by the case-law of the Constitutional Court. And the case-law which is known on this matter — I repeat, which is known on this matter — advises that there should be at least caution regarding the judgment which may be made by the Constitutional Court on the law which has been passed here on this matter. We therefore await the Constitutional Court's decision on this matter. On the issue of critical infrastructure, it seems to us that the recommendation presented by the CDS makes sense, because in fact it is important for the State to safeguard the safety of those infrastructures. And, therefore, we agree there, because we believe that there are safety plans that must be made and that there are infrastructures that must be protected from any eventuality. However, we cannot fail to say that the CDS, when it defended the privatization of critical infrastructures from the point of view of national security, had no such concern. In other words, when the entire telecommunications network was handed over to private companies — in fact, with tragic consequences, such as those with which we were confronted last year, particularly with regard to communications and the functioning of the so-called SIRESP — when the oil company was handed over to the private sector, when there were crucial aspects for the safety of our country and our populations in the hands of private companies, neglecting the State's duties on safeguarding fundamental values for the Portuguese State, for national sovereignty and for the safety of Portuguese people, the CDS did not reveal these concerns. But, finally, it is worth more than ever and we believe that there are critical infrastructures, whose safety must be safeguarded, and this is a duty that the Portuguese State cannot alienate. in this sense, we agree with this recommendation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u288	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This agenda of the CDS, and it has already been said, appears here with a urgency that is somewhat incomprehensible, because, on the one hand, the history of the CDS in this matter is against the Constitution, recognized by the Constitutional Court, and on the other, there have already been your initiatives, subscribed by you and accompanied by the PSD, in which the Constitutional Court, in a horrifying way, said they were violating the Constitution. Moreover, the CDS knows that on this matter the Constitutional Court has a request, made by Members of the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens, to assess the law that has recently been adopted. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] Knowing this, having this history, it is a little incomprehensible the CDS' urgency to want to try to force a vote here now, in the wake of this process. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] from the Left Block, we do not forget that there is this history and we are active agents in the supervision that the Constitutional Court will make on this matter. We hope that there will be a speedy decision, but we do not give the petition that the CDS is making on this file because the arguments used by Mr Telmo Correia are not serious, as it tries to incite fear to legitimize the CDS agenda, when clearly the example of the terrorist attacks in France has no connection to this file, and it does not because in France there is a law of incapacitated metadata until it has any action on this matter. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] It's instigating fear, I repeat, is instigating fear to create here the big brother to whisper the life of all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u290	That's not serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u291	Let's look at the Portuguese case, see how the bisbilhotice worked in the Portuguese case. of the national example, the CDS forgets. The CDS wants to forget that Portuguese secret services have already been used, which have already been convicted spies in Portugal for having been bisbling people's lives, as a journalist, in the specific case. But what does the CDS do? It wants to give even more possibility, even more instruments so that, without any coverage, the bisbilhotice becomes law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u292	That's not serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u293	We do not understand about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u294	If anything happens, it'll be your fault! Take your responsibilities!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u295	That's why we don't give this CDS petition. We have an opposing position and we await, quietly, the Constitutional Court to make its way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u296	It's best not to do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u297	We do not understand the unease of the CDS in this matter, but we realize that, as you know from history, it also awaits a decision contrary to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u298	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u299	And we hope, too, that it will happen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u300	In terms of seriousness, we're talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u301	Mrs. Members, the evaluation of draft resolutions Nos 1391 and 1392 / XIII ( 3 ) is thus concluded. ( a). Turning to the next item on our agenda, point 5, we generally have to discuss Bill No 39 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The third amendment to the Labour Code and the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 is made in its current wording to strengthen the protection regime in parenthood ( ALRAM ). For an intervention, Mrs Carla Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative we are now discussing, from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, follows a petition entitled « The rights of the parents of children and young people with cancer — inadequate or non-existent legislation, lack of financial support », from the initiative of the Association of Heroic Parents, which we welcome, because it translates into the exercise of a right of citizenship here we want to sign and praise. The initiative aims to introduce a number of amendments, including the Labour Code, which can be divided into two groups: on the one hand, amendments aimed at extending the period of leave or absences for assistance which the Labour Code prescribes, and on the other, amendments aimed at speeding up the procedures and allocation of these same licences and paying their compensation, reducing the deadlines currently provided for in the law. It happens that, without prejudice to the fact that they may effectively deserve some adjustments, we believe that the rules contained in our Labour Code on this matter achieve a balance between all the interests involved, as well as all the parties involved, thus ensuring, in general, balanced labour relations, without prejudice, refers again to the need for some possible adjustments and necessary adjustments. However, in these and other matters already discussed here, the Socialist Party has recognized the need to make some adjustments to labour legislation. However, these adjustments must be made in a concerted context, so that it is possible to achieve greater and desirable strength and consistency, and the Labour Code should not be constantly being the subject of cuttings and avulgesive collages. We also recall that there is currently a working group within the Committee on Labour and Social Security which aims to examine and discuss a number of legislative proposals in this area of protection of parenthood — 11 initiatives — in which we believe that this proposal should also be discussed. Thus, and recognizing the great importance of these matters related to the protection of kinship, and in a remarkable exercise of cooperation and parliamentary consensus, yesterday entered a request signed by several Members, from almost all parliamentary groups, so that this proposal could be reduced to 10. the Commission, without a vote, in order to be able to be included in the ongoing discussion in the said Working Group on Gender Equality and Parentality, because this is the only way we believe that it can be legislated not only, but also and above all better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u303	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The proposal for law No 39 / XIII is being discussed today ( 2 ). ( a ), of the Madeira Regional Legislative Assembly, which aims to strengthen the protection regime in parenthood. The CDS has, at the heart of its concerns, the question of birth, which in Portugal has reached such low values that it may call into question the subsistence of our social fabric and the sustainability of the social state and its policies. Protection of parenthood is one of the components of the policies to encourage birth that the CDS believes that Portugal needs. Portugal needs policies to allow families to have the children they want.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u305	That's why you've increased your hours to people and took the holidays away! It's to have time for families!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u306	It was in this sense that the first ruling agenda of the CDS in this legislature, on May 5, 2016, was on this topic, birth. Unfortunately, by pure ideological prejudice, the left rejected all the initiatives of the CDS, regardless of their merit. [[Protests by members of BE Isabel Pires and Joana Mortágua.]] The CDS did not give up, or give up, its proposals for protection of kinship. For the same reason, these initiatives have been re-presented and lowered to the Commission without a vote and other parliamentary groups so that an extended consensus can be created that will improve labour legislation in this area. The CDS is available to work towards reaching the necessary consensus, and for this reason we also subscribe to the Commission's call for discharge, without a vote, to this initiative of the Madeira Regional Legislative Assembly, so that this initiative can also be considered in conjunction with the other pending projects submitted by the parliamentary groups. The initiative of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira has proposals with which we agree and others that we disagree, but we agree to discuss all, without any prejudice to its authorship, and we will consider each other's merits. The CDS is aware that the problem of low birth is not solved without policies that have stability over time, and for that reason it is important that all — I repeat, all parliamentary groups and also, in this case the labour sector, the social partners — be available to build the necessary consensus. As a process of revision of the Labour Code is under way, the CDS uses to urge the Government to also address this issue in social consultation. Let us repeat: the contribution of all is important when we discuss matters that are fundamental to the future of our country and without the resolution of which we will have no future. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u307	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we are discussing today comes following the petition dynamized by the Association of Heroic Parents, which we also congratulate, with the aim of strengthening the rights of the parents of children and young people with cancer. Always having as a first objective the best interests of the child, it is urgent and fair that measures be taken to strengthen the conditions of follow-up to children with cancer and chronic disease. It is unquestionable that, in the recovery and follow-up of these children and young people, the presence and affection of parents are indispensable and irreplaceable, and therefore conditions should be guaranteed to enable parents to be present at all times necessary. It is also important, in this regard, not to forget the emotional, emotional, social, and economic impacts of both children and young people as well as their own families. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u309	The measures to be taken must take into account all aspects of this difficult reality. The CFP has been putting forward proposals for this purpose for several years. in this Legislative Session, we have launched an initiative to strengthen measures in the area of pediatric oncology and support for children and adolescents with cancer and their families, with the approval of all their points, of which we highlight: strengthening psychological support for children and young people with cancer and their families; strengthening mechanisms for sharing the allocation of support products; sharing 100% of dietary supplements for children and young people with cancer; special educational support for these children and young people; extending the conditions of access and the amounts of social benefits available to parents and caregivers; the obligation of the employer to adjust the working time and the functions to be performed, in respect of the specific characteristics of the caregiver. We also presented legislative initiatives to increase the licence from 30 to 90 days in the case of children with disabilities or chronic illness; payment of the allowance for assistance to children with disabilities or chronic illness to 100 % of the reference remuneration; elimination of the condition of resources for the purpose of allocation of social allowances and indexing their limit to 100 % of the value of the IAS (indicating social support), as well as ensuring that the licence for assistance to children does not determine the loss of the unemployment allowance in the event of termination of the company or termination of the job. These proposals, which in the past were rejected by the PSD and the CDS, well reflecting the concern of the PSD and CDS with these children and young people, but which are now under discussion, in the specialty, for appreciation and vote. They are proposals to strengthen maternity and paternity rights, but above all to defend the best interests of the child and its integral development. With regard to this proposal for a law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, we believe that it can effectively move down to the specialty and be integrated into the working group set up in the Committee on Labour, where proposals from various parliamentary groups will be discussed and voted on. We will work to shift the concerns from the role of these families to the concrete life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u310	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the subject of the debate here, we believe that the State should ensure that those with unequal conditions at the outset have access to rights to overcome these inequalities and allow full access to those rights. Thus, ensuring equality conditions in the exercise of parenthood, as well as strengthening the protection regime of parenthood, are important matters for the Left Block. That is why, at this time in the Assembly of the Republic, within the Committee on Labour, a wide range of work is already under way, with a working group, only to examine several proposals that aim to change various matters at the level of protection in parenthood, as well as in gender equality, in access to these rights. We therefore welcome the proposals of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira which, in this case, extend the period of absences to work to assist children in the event of illness or accident and to accompany children with disabilities or chronic illness, which increase the periods and amounts of parental benefit in various ways, or which integrate independent workers into the allocation of child and net care grants, among other proposals contained in the initiative now under consideration. Also by the Left Block, we currently have several projects in this area, which aim, among other things, to protect pregnant, puerperous or lactating workers in the experimental period of work, to ensure equality in parental leave in adoption situations and to extend the father's exclusive parental leave or even increase the initial parental leave, in case of birth or adoption of children with disabilities or rare disease. In fact, there is a concern that is practically transversal to this Parliament about matters of parenthood, and the work of specialty currently has several proposals. Therefore, the effort to join and reach one or more proposals to achieve a fairer regime is essential because this fairer regime is necessary for parents and mothers, but it is also very necessary for children. And this commitment will certainly continue with the Commission's downside of this proposal, to join those already under discussion. Finally, the issues of parenthood and birth are in fact an important issue which has been widely debated in this Parliament. But we also know that, despite the very important changes that are on the table, they are not enough. That is why a policy of return of income, increase of wages and reduction of working hours, that is, will make the difference for those who want or think to be a mother or father or adopt a child. In fact, over the past few years this possibility has been denied to many people because of the impoverishment caused by the previous government and also because of measures to increase precariousness in the work area that have particularly affected the younger ones. So it is not enough to say here that if you want to have amendments to the Labour Code, when the policy of the previous government was to destroy people's ability to choose to be parents or mothers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u312	Mr Paulo Neves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are facing an issue that has to do with strengthening the parental protection regime. It is always appropriate to update the Labour Code and all legislation that will strengthen and also safeguard the rights of working parents who are faced with sensitive situations of illness or accidents with their children. We talk about situations such as chronic diseases or children with disabilities. The Social Democratic Party is very clear in this regard: in relation to everything that has to do with family, birth and support for those who need the most in the family, the Social Democratic Party is always available to contribute to improving legislation that leads to more and better support for those family members who are dedicated to accompanying their children, so often in emotional, financial and social situations that are very difficult. We're always on the side of these parents. We are always committed to this legislative update, an update that may go through extended periods of time and also social support. When we look at this issue, we are faced with issues of enormous importance (maybe of the most important that a Parliament can dedicate to), which have to do with human dignity, which have to do with valuing the role of the family, an irreplaceable role, and which also have to do with the role of the State, to make life easier for those who face situations why none of us want to go through. Finally, the ultimate intention is that young people who are victims of chronic diseases, accidents or fatalities be accompanied by those who are closest to them and that better emotional support can give them. We end up with a word of enormous recognition to the Association of Heroic Fathers, which is, in fact, the basis of all this legislative intention and which is inspiring, being these fathers, in fact, our heroes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u314	Mrs. Members, after discussion, in general, of Bill No 39 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), we generally consider draft law No 799 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the installation of closed television circuits in slaughterhouses (NAPs). To present the bill, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal 11 million animals are slaughtered per year. Five hundred animals are slaughtered every hour and 92 per minute in our country. Several evidence shows the existence of a pattern of conduct that may occur in slaughterhouses and which consist on non-compliance with animal welfare and protection standards, such as: the application of electric discharges in areas not allowed by the animal body; the application of panics with brutality; or various anomalies in the decapitations and bleeding of animals carried out with the still conscious animal. It is proven that the use of closed television circuits in slaughterhouses ensures an improvement in the handling and slaughter of animals and increases public confidence that slaughter processes are appropriate. It is also a management tool to assist economic operators in their slaughterhouses, a tool that is quite useful in the training of workers and is unequivocal aid to inspectors and veterinarians in their role of monitoring animal welfare. In England, the Non-Governmental Organizations ( NGOs ), the DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary ), the ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ), the Association of British Veterinaries, consumers and even slaughterhouse owners have demanded and expressed their total support for this measure, which led to the commitment of the Government of the British Conservative Party to implement in May. The British Labour Party also enshrines this same measure in its current political programme. In order to safeguard the interests of workers and to comply with the rules relating to the protection of personal data, images captured can only be observed by operators, health inspectors and DGAV. Since slaughterhouses do not have glass walls, we consider the implementation of video surveillance cameras essential. The investigations clearly tell us that the overwhelming majority of Portuguese agree with the need for greater protection of livestock, which in Portugal have a life of torment, which ends in the course of the death of industry, without dignity and in deep distress. Portugal's assertion as a developed country and ethically differentiated also goes by raising the fascia, demonstrating that we practice the highest standards of protection and animal welfare and we do not fear to show it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, during the time of this intervention I have just done, 250 animals have been slaughtered in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u316	Mr António Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : All initiatives that contribute to improving animal welfare are welcome in this House. So we all want it, from producers to consumers. However, this initiative is very incomplete, raises many doubts and poses a risk and makes it suspicious of what exists. Of course, it is not here that we guarantee full compliance with the standards, nor does the protection of workers' data be guarded, contrary to what is stated by the NAP. We also have the problem of installation costs and, above all, maintenance costs. Who's gonna have them? Obviously this will fall on the same ones, on the usual ones, on the livestock producers who have experienced crisis after crisis with cracks in incomes, producers who, in fact, are completely abandoned by a government that whenever there is a crisis what does? Shut up! He does not talk about the crisis waiting for time to pass or, when he talks, he talks when there is a national situation that leads to the distraction of the Portuguese. The Government is fully and constantly absent from the crises of agricultural producers. Therefore, we do not follow this initiative, but if you want to install a surveillance camera this is the ideal time to install it in the Atlantic and try to catch some TAP plane flying to the Third Island. Indeed, it will not succeed, because from Sunday until yesterday, at least until yesterday, there was not a single flight from TAP to the Third Island. The TAP is in constant non-compliance with the outsiders, does not fly there and, in the face of this non-compliance, the government is in complete silence—more a crisis, more a management of the crisis in silence—, does not provide clarification, does not give answers to people and leaves them with the negative consequences for their lives, both for those who want to leave there and for those who want to visit us. So more evidence is not necessary. This is a government totally absent from the lives of the Portuguese, the lives of the Azorians. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u318	We now turn to the intervention of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has discussed the need for the extension of the law of maltreatment to animals of production and we have advanced to warn that violence, until recently accepted, is now condemned by social advances and science. Because we are talking about a very lucrative business and with blocking force, these advances have not been made, and that is also why, when we deal with proposals for advances in the treatment of animals, we cannot yield to the working conditions of those who work with them and do not decide on errors and correctness. It is often found in these areas, where we witness situations of animal abuse, issues of poverty, harassment at work, exploitation and failure to comply with basic labour rules, but also public health issues and environmental problems. It will not be coincidence that the pigs in Leiria are the largest polluters of the water resources in that region or that many contaminations by multi-resistant bacteria are associated with industrial meat production. All of this has to have a response and this will be as much as you understand what drives these industries and the global treatment of contempt and coercion against any difficulty to profit, whether the environment, workers or animals. For the Left Block, this is a deeply wrong proposal. When you could have used this time to propose more supervision, hiring people, investment for slaughterhouses to be updated, channels for workers to be able to denounce the conditions in which they are obliged to treat animals and what happens in slaughterhouses or for activists and associations to have access to what is happening inside a slaughterhouse, this project puts the discussion of the isolated animal welfare of the society in which it is inserted and opens doors to the security response and constant surveillance to all spheres of our life. And this without any guarantee of transparency or openness of proceedings. The camera will be controlled by those who already hold power and it is naive to think that this relationship will change in a closed video circuit. This is a mistake that works within the same system of oppression of people, animals and nature that we seek to combat; it works for the logic of intimidation and total surveillance and not for systemic change that allows the involvement and awareness of all. Guaranteeing animal welfare is ensuring public investment for the most advanced practice, tight public supervision and, in accordance with European standards, the possibility of reporting by workers on their conditions and the conditions under which animals are treated. Animal welfare will only be ensured if those responsible for food industries are publicly, transparently and coherently monitored. This project is far from proposing this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u320	To intervene, I give the floor to Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The NAP, with this initiative, aims to make the installation of closed television circuits in slaughterhouses compulsory. There are several reasons why Mr Silva presents this initiative, those that are expressed, and I stress four. First of all, the fact that there are serious abuse of livestock in slaughterhouses, but from other countries, some of them non-European, extrapolating in an abusive way which is a pattern of conduct that may also occur in Portugal. Secondly, the project says that citizens are increasingly concerned with animal welfare, which is true, but as if the absence of closed television circuits in slaughterhouses meant the absence of compliance with these requirements. Portugal is integrated into the European Union, which has the most demanding rules on animal welfare worldwide. Thirdly, it refers to, for example, videos of alleged maltreatment — repeat, alleged maltreatment — live animals transported outside the country. Mr Deputies, these videos are using—I am therefore told with knowledge of the cause—an occasional failure on a platform to extrapolate to the universe as if a generalized situation were being treated. Fourthly, he said on his initiative that the presence of a health inspector in slaughterhouses — which is expressly mandatory — still has an associated risk, since it is not possible to check the practices throughout the process. In my view, this is an unacceptable statement of incompetence to health inspectors and slaughterhouse professionals, who have to have constant training on animal welfare, are supervised by the guardianship and, therefore, if there is work to be done, there will certainly be, as Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has just said, and I also agree, greater supervision. If there are improvements to be made, in addition to monitoring can also be and should increase awareness actions. It is certainly not because there are closed television circuits that will be used the best available techniques. This project also raises serious doubts as to a possible violation of the data protection law, despite the arguments presented. He considered that he would go to Article 20 ( 2 ). that of the Labour Code, which states: « The use of equipment referred to in the preceding paragraph is lawful whenever it is intended to protect and protect persons and goods or when particular requirements inherent in the nature of the activity justify it ». Well, as animals are not — and well! — persons or goods, how can you understand that this article is being safeguarded? Only if it is the other side, which is due to the « particular requirements inherent in the nature of the activity», and that, we agree, is a subjective assessment in which the CDS does not review itself. We even believe that this is a disproportionate requirement and we have serious doubts that the possible benefits to animal welfare outweigh the damage to subject workers to permanent surveillance when there are already tight operating rules. Finally, and no less important, to conclude, Mr President, this project does not bring a word on the possible costs of implementing the measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u322	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u323	I shall conclude, Mr President. According to the United Kingdom Technical Note, where this measure was implemented on an optional basis, a fixed cost of £650,000 was estimated for installation and an annual cost of £250,000.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u324	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u325	In practice, this would certainly be reflected in slaughterhouses, and the sector has already gone through a great crisis, or, then, in the taxpayer's purse, which has already been penalized, has recently been seen in the news, with an increase of 37% of indirect taxes by this government, and they need no more costs on food consumption goods. Therefore, the CDS does not revise and does not follow this project. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u326	Mr Norberto Patinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u327	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The recognition of the very nature of animals as sensitive living beings, as well as the need for targeted measures to protect and safeguard them in the face of acts of cruelty and ill-treatment, has come to gather an increasingly broad consensus on the part of our society. The protection of animals at the time of slaughter is a matter of concern to the public and to which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is quite sensitive. In Portugal, animal welfare is a principle enshrined in the legislation establishing rules for its protection. The draft law that the NAP presents to us does not introduce into its articulated any new proposal or measure that will reinforce those already provided for in the law in force for the protection and welfare of animals in slaughterhouses. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u328	The explanatory statement refers to serious maltreatment of livestock animals in slaughterhouses in several European countries, not carrying out any cases in our country and denounces a pattern of conduct that may occur and that would, if necessary, entail failure to comply with welfare and animal protection standards, not referring to any situation that has occurred or was reported in slaughterhouses in Portugal. At no time are there any signs of fragility of the law in force regarding the welfare of animals in the Portuguese slaughterhouses. No problems in the application of the law are reported, in particular as regards the health inspection or supervision of the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary Affairs ( DGAV ). It is evident that there is little preparation for the bill. A clear intention of mediating is a real legislative intention. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u329	Fundamental aspects of their possible approval and application have not been taken into account. No entities were consulted or heard whose opinion would be decisive. There were no alternatives to video surveillance that are intended to impose, for example, the bet on training professionals, the strengthening of staff frameworks or the improvement of working conditions. The economic assessment of the proposed law has not been carried out and therefore there is no idea of the size of the costs with it. The impact of the proposed diploma or its proportionality has not been assessed. There are several contradictions in the proposed articulation. If, on the one hand, it claims to ensure that the images can only be observed by operators, health inspectors and by the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary, on the other hand, it determines that technicians responsible for verifying the images captured should have adequate training for that purpose. There would therefore be other agents with access to the images, which could also be used for training purposes. The bill provides for the placement of cameras that affected 24 hours, directly about the workers in the places where they perform their professional activity. This would mean permanent policing with clear violation of personality rights. The vision of the images by the operator would enable the use of the images to control professional performance. Even if video surveillance ensured better welfare for animals in slaughterhouses, which is not the case, this could never be achieved through the loss of workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u330	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u331	I will finish, Mr. President. Being available to find ways to improve the law, always in order to ensure the welfare of animals, we cannot follow this proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u332	Mr João Dias has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The decent treatment of animals is a subject that has gained increasing relevance, either because there is a growing concern about animal welfare, either because here or there are complaints of inappropriate treatments that need to be eliminated. These matters should be treated seriously.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u334	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u335	It is not serious to say, from excerpts from videotapes of hidden cameras, that this or that situation is a widespread practice in Portugal. We reject the idea that slaughterhouse workers are all insensitive to the suffering of animals and that they generally disrespect national and international practices and we believe it is important to fight to ensure the best treatment conditions given to animals, before and during their slaughter. The slaughterhouse operators shall be responsible for the welfare of animals passing through their premises. The presence of veterinarians from the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary in slaughterhouses is the best guarantee of compliance, on the one hand, with the legislation governing the quality and health of meat and, on the other, with animal welfare rules. In addition, the veterinarian who carries out inspection functions at the slaughterhouse has responsibilities that go far beyond the peri-bate, even if he is concerned about aspects and information relating to the conditions of transport of animals and even the control of the hygiene conditions of installations and slaughter operations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u336	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u337	The question is therefore to ensure that there is a veterinary framework of the Food and Veterinary Directorate appropriate to control the conditions of slaughterhouses, which, as you know, does not exist. In fact, it must be reported that the government not only has not guaranteed this filling of vacancies as it has still opened up the possibility of self-executing slaughterhouses, which is unacceptable. Furthermore, the PCP does not follow these situations, as it did not follow in others, the idea that the use of video surveillance is the right solution. The use of video surveillance in workplaces is already permitted by law under certain conditions and the CFP was in disagreement with these legal rules, precisely because they established a regime in which workers' rights, freedoms and guarantees and the protection of personal data were called into question, in the name of interests and objectives they could and could be achieved with other measures, without such damage having to exist. Life has shown that the PCP was right when it alerted to problems related to data protection rules, the destination of the images collected and the use given to them. Life confirmed that opening the possibility of collecting images by video surveillance means unlocking the door to use these images for any purpose, exceeding all limits defined by the law itself. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u338	Mrs. Members, the assessment of Bill No 799 / XIII ( 3 ) is completed. ( a). of the seventh point is the scheduling, without time allocated for discussion, of draft resolution No 1455 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions until the end of 3. the Legislative Session ( Vice President of RA, replaced by the President of RA, Jorge Lacão ). We shall therefore proceed to the voting period. I would like to ask the services to make available the electronic quorum verification system and to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[Pause.]] Meanwhile, Ms. Secretary of Bureau Emilia Santos will announce some legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u339	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions 1456 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to support families of Portuguese citizens who have died abroad for the purpose of moving to national territory ( CFP ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 1457 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — proposes free access to the electronic platform Virtual School for the teaching of Portuguese abroad ( EPE ) ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1458/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the measures necessary for the management of the seaweed coast with the objective of combating the growing erosion of the coastal zone and ensuring its planning and planning ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u340	I'm asking the ladies. Members who have not yet done so are in favour of registering so that we can carry out the examination of the deliberation quorum. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 206 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Deputies João Torres, PS, and Luís Campos Ferreira, PSD, performing 208 Members, so we have a large majority of deliberative guaranteed. Let's start with vote No 507 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Manuel Reis, presented by the PS and subscribed by BE, CDS-PP and PSD Members. I ask the Secretary of the Idália Bureau to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u341	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last Sunday Manuel Reis, a unique figure of the cultural and civic life of Lisbon and the country, creator and dynamizer of projects that opened the city's horizons and marked it in a unique way. Manuel Reis, born in the Algarve, transformed the nights of Lisbon, first in the 1980s, with the iconic fragile, in the Bairro Alto, and later with the Lux Frágil, contributing to the recovery of the riverside area of the city. His vision and casto marked the recovery of the Upper Quarter, as well as a generation of young students and artists who found in the fragile a place of freedom, creation and dissemination of his work. The night spaces dynamized by Manuel Reis have affirmed themselves as cultural landmarks in the city of Lisbon that have left a mark in several generations. As Miguel Esteves Cardoso said in recent article: ‘ Manuel Reis is a genius of Lisbon, of those who emerge from the lamps and offer us three desires. The more impossible the desires are, the more he fears to realize them. Thus, meeting in plenary session on 28 March 2018, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Manuel Reis and addresses his condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u342	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 503/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemning and regretting the attack in Carcassonne, in southern France, submitted by the President of RA, and subscribed by the Vice President of RA, in place of the President of RA, Jorge Lacão, by PS, PSD and CDS-PP. I also ask the Secretary-General, Mrs Idália, to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u343	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep dismay that the Assembly of the Republic took note of the occurrence of a new terrorist attack last Friday, March 23, in Carcassonne, in southern France. Of this attack, 4 were killed, including the attacker himself, and 16 were wounded. Among the wounded, the Portuguese citizen Renato Silva, 26 years old, natural of Coimbra and son of Portuguese immigrants in France remains in serious condition. Terrorism is a global threat that requires global and cooperative responses. The Assembly of the Republic reaffirms Portugal's commitment to combating terrorism and stresses the determined and courageous action of the French police authorities, in particular the Lieutenant-Coronel Arnaud Beltrame, who lost his life by exchanging places with a hostage. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Members of the Assembly of the Republic express their condemnation of these attacks, conveying their deepest sorrow to the families of the victims and their sincerest solidarity with the authorities and the French people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u344	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Following the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 506 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — With praise for the act of heroism of Lieutenant-Coronel Arnaud Beltrame, presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PS Members. I request the Secretary of the António Carlos Monteiro Bureau to read out this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u345	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Alongside the condemnation vote and regret for the attack in Carcassonne, in southern France, presented by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, in plenary session of 29 March, to which the CDS-PP obviously joined, the Assembly of the Republic hereby pays tribute to Lieutenant-Coronel Arnaud Beltrame, of the National Aude Mounted Police, who lost his life in the morning of 23 March, after having been seriously injured on the morning of the preceding day in Trèbes, in southern France, following the same cowardly attack perpetrated in the service of jihadist terrorism. With an admirable bravery, military officer Beltrame voluntarily exchanged places with one of the hostages, transcending his individual condition to express the noblest of virtues, altruism. The consequence of the attitude he took resulted tragically in his death, saving with that gesture the life of that woman. His memory was the target of a significant number of tributes, of which the national tribute by the French State is highlighted, with which Portugal shares relations of deep friendship. The extraordinary role that he had the courage to play has become a unique example in the fight against the threat of jihadist terrorism and has earned him the epithet of ‘ hero of Très. ’ in this hour of suffering and mourning, the Assembly of the Republic is associated with the tributes to the life of Lieutenant-Coronel Arnaud Beltrame, whose heroism saved human lives and honored his homeland; and in it he grants his public recognition to all elements of the European security forces and services that risk losing their lives in the service of others. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u346	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PAN applause.]] The following vote No 501/ XIII ( 3 ) shall be taken: ( a ) — Condemnation and solidarity by the situation of political prisoners in Catalonia, presented by the Left Block. To read this vote, you have the floor of Mr. Secretary Moses Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u347	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 23 March, the Supreme Court of Spain accused 13 former members of the Government of the Catalan Generalitat, as well as Members elected in the last regional elections, on 21 December 2017, of crimes such as rebellion, sedition and diversion of funds, existing European and international arrest warrant for those who, meanwhile, have been exiled. These political leaders, all democratically elected, are facing penalties that may range from 25 to 30 years of effective imprisonment. The Spanish state's insistence on political prisoners has led to a profound deterioration of the political and social situation in Catalonia and is today the greatest obstacle to any democratic solution in that region. The conduct of the Catalan process by the Government of the Kingdom of Spain deserves to be condemned by the democratic countries. The existence of political prisoners and exiles, together with police violence in the streets in the face of peaceful demonstrations, is a direct translation of the suspension of the most basic democratic rights imposed by the Spanish State on the Catalan people. All States that self-proclaim themselves as democratic cannot cope with the present situation in Catalonia. The defence of democracy, of the most basic individual rights, and in particular of the freedom of expression and self-determination of peoples, must be fundamental points in the Catalan question, which will soon be defended equally in all territories. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns the manifestations of violence in the Spanish State, expresses its solidarity with the exiles and political prisoners and calls for the replacement of democratic normality and the release of all political prisoners. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u348	Mrs. Members, let us vote on vote No 501 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 11 PS (André Pinotes Batista, Ascension Simões, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Catarina Marcelino, Isabel Alves Moreira, João Soares, Lúcia Araújo Silva, Luís Graza, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Ricardo León and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and abstentions from 12 PS (Carla Tavares, Constance Urbano de Sousa, Diogo León, Euridice Pereira, Fernando Anastácio, Fernando Jesus, Helena Roseta, Hugo Costa, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Marisabel Moutela, Sofia Araújo and Wanda Guimarães).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u349	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u350	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u351	I would like to draw the attention of President Jorge Lacão and the House to the fact that this system cannot continue. It is necessary to recognise the centrality of the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs in order, in a previous analysis, to seek compromises, consensus, we will reach more balanced texts on foreign policy. This House, in the field of foreign policy, seems increasingly ridiculous, Mr President! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u352	What the Bureau suggests to Mr President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is that he should present the reasons he understands on this matter to the President of the House for consideration at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u353	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u354	I am sorry, but I cannot open a debate on this issue right now. For what effect do you ask for the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u355	For an appeal to the Bureau, if I may, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u356	I'll give you the floor to speak to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u357	Mr President, I would like to ask whether all the proceedings and the rights of the parliamentary groups have been followed either in the delivery of votes or in the voting process on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u358	According to the rules currently in force, certainly so. Mr Ulisses Pereira also asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u359	Mr President, it is only to announce to the House that on this vote and to which I shall continue to present a declaration of vote on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u360	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u361	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u362	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u363	Mr President, it is to endorse the position expressed by Mr President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u364	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to vote No 502 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Sentencing by the arrest of leaders of political forces, members of Parliament and former members of the Government of Catalonia, submitted by the CFP. To read the vote, you have the floor to Mrs. Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u365	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In the face of coercive and repressive measures, including the arrest and application of judicial proceedings, adopted by the Spanish authorities against political leaders, members of Parliament and former members of the Government of Catalonia, which constitute a serious manifestation of anti-democratic intolerance; Noting that such measures are inserted in an attempt to stifle genuine feelings of national identity and to affirm authoritarian positions, which, blocking and not contributing to finding a political solution to the complex national issue in Spain, will tend to aggravate it first; Noting that the instrumentalization of the Catalan national issue, the escalation of facts achieved, the absence of a political solution aims to circumvent the responsibilities of those who have promoted a policy with serious social consequences, whether in Spain or in Catalonia ; Noting that the current situation is being covered by reactionary nationalist values and is being encouraged by fascist sectors, which have oppressed the peoples of Spain for tens of years ; Noting that this repressive drift is expressed in the so-called « law of mordace », adopted in 2015 and that it fosters fundamental political and democratic freedoms and rights; Noting that the national issue in Spain should be considered with the complexity that the history and current reality of that country close; The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 29 March 2018 : 1 — Condemns the repressive measures and the authoritarian drift of the Spanish Government and authorities in relation to the situation in Catalonia; 2 — Calls for a political solution to the national issue in Spain, in respect of the will of its peoples and consequently of the will of the Catalan people, and for the safeguarding of the social rights and other democratic rights of the peoples of Spain. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u366	At the request of the PS, points 1 and 2 of this vote shall be voted on separately. Let's start by voting point 1. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 21 PS (Alexandre Quintanilla, André Pinotes Batista, Ascenso Simões, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Catarina Marcelino, Francisco Rocha, Helena Roseta, Isabel Alves Moreira, Luís Graza, João Soares, Joaquim Barreto, Joaquim Raposo, José Manuel Carpinteira, José Rui Cruz, Lúcia Araújo Silva, Margarida Marques, Maria Augusta Santos, Palmira Maciel, Porfirio Silva, Santinho Pacheco and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and abstentions from 8 PS (Carla Tavares, Eurídice Pereira, Hugo Costa, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Marisabel Moutela, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Sofia Araújo and Wanda Guimarã).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u367	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u368	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u369	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I intend to make a statement of vote on these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u370	Be registered. We shall vote on point 2 of the same vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u371	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u372	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u373	To announce that, in my name and on behalf of the honourable Members. Mr. Wanda Guimarães, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Hugo Costa and Sofia Araújo, will present a statement of vote on the two previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u374	Be registered. We turn to vote No 504 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemning the Turkish invasion and bombing of the people of the Kurdish autonomous territory of Afrin in Syria ( BE ). Mr. Secretary Moisés Ferreira will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u375	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 20 January 2018, Turkey began a military operation in Afrin, a city in northern Syria, with the aim of expelling the Kurdish forces that lived there after having defeated and expelled the Islamic State. In March 2018, after weeks of violent fighting, indiscriminate air bombardments to civilians and the decimaration of numerous villages and Kurdish populations, the Turkish army conquered the city of Afrin. Since this operation, paradoxically called “Ramo de Oliveira”, began, hundreds of civilians have been murdered and about 200,000 people have become refugees. According to Human Rights Watch, these asylum seekers, when trying to escape from the conflict areas to Turkey, are targeted by indiscriminate shootings by Turkish border guards. Even in full Turkish soil, hundreds of opponents, including mere users of social networks, journalists and political agents, have been arrested for criticizing these operations. Both these repressive actions and military offensives demonstrate interest in the ethnic cleansing and consequent annihilation of the Kurdish people by President Erdogan, who has already promised to expand military operations throughout northern Syria and even to neighbour Iraq. thus, this House can not fail to pronounce itself on the struggle for the survival of the Kurds, which resembles in everything that of so many other peoples who in the past faced cruelty and tyranny at the expense of their own subsistence. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the recent Turkish invasion of the Kurdish autonomous territory of Afrin and repudiates the violations of international humanitarian law and human rights of the Turkish Government on the Kurdish peoples. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u376	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the vote on this vote. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens, the PAN, 1 Member of the PSD (Paula Teixeira da Cruz) and 2 Members of the CDS-PP (Ilda Araújo Novo and João Rebelo), votes against 1 Member of the PS (Sérgio Sousa Pinto) and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and 2 Members of the PS (João Soares and Renato Sampaio).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u377	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u378	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u379	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the CFP will deliver a written vote statement on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u380	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Isabel Santos, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u381	It is also to announce that I will make a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u382	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Renato Sampaio also asked for the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u383	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u384	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u385	Mr President, it is also for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u386	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 505/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemning the launch of missiles by Yemen on the capital of Saudi Arabia submitted by the PSD. I ask Secretary Emília Santos to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u387	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last March 25, Yemen launched seven missiles on the capital of Saudi Arabia. Riade, the capital of Saudi Arabia, is a city with more than 5 million inhabitants, provoking this act to the death of a civilian and two wounded. Taking note of this act, both the UN Security Council and its Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, strongly condemned the launch on Sunday. According to the spokesman for the Secretary-General, the attack would have been claimed by the Houthis, members of an Islamic movement created in Yemen. The Secretary-General of the United Nations has asked for restraint on military escalation, which will not be a solution to the conflict. The UN Secretary-General has also appealed to all sides to comply with their obligations to protect civilians and civilian infrastructure from attacks, in accordance with international humanitarian law. Faced with these facts, the Assembly of the Republic condemns the launch of missiles by Yemen on the capital of Saudi Arabia and expresses solidarity with the inhabitants of Riade and calls for dialogue between the parties as a means of resolving the conflict. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u388	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE and the PCP and abstentions from The Greens, the NAP and 7 PS (Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Constança Urbano de Sousa, Gabriela Canavilhas, Isabel Santos, Margarida Marques, Marisabel Moutela and Porfirio Silva).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u389	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u390	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u391	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a written vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u392	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u393	Mr President, it is also to indicate that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will deliver a written vote statement on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u394	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr João Oliveira also asked for the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u395	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that we are going to deliver a written vote on the previous vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u396	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Margarida Marques, have you asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u397	Yes, Mr President, it is to announce that, on behalf of the individual and on behalf of some PS Members, we will present a vote on the previous vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u398	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 757 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 38 / 2007 of 16 August approving the legal regime for the evaluation of the quality of higher education ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE and abstentions from the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u399	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u400	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u401	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the CFP will deliver a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u402	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 813 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and construction of university residences ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 8.The Commission. We then voted on draft resolution No 1449 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Proposals for measures to combat job insecurity in higher education institutions ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1391 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make urgent regulation of the Organic Law No 4 / 2017 of 25 August approving and regulating the special procedure for access to telecommunications and Internet data by the Information Officers of the Security Information Service and the Strategic and Defence Information Service, and makes the second amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law on the Organisation of the Judicial System ) ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1392/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the completion of the process of classification of national critical infrastructures and the process of validation of operator safety plans by the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS and BE abstentions.]] We proceed to the vote on an application by the PSD, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PCP to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting for a period of 60 days on Bill No 39 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The third amendment to the Labour Code and the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 is made in its current wording to strengthen the protection regime in parenthood ( ALRAM ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will move on to the general vote on Bill No. 799 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the installation of closed television circuits in slaughterhouses (NAPs). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens, with votes against the PAN and with abstentions from 2 PS (Luís Graça and Rosa Maria Albernaz).]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1455 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions until the end of 3. the Legislative Session ( Vice-President of RA, replaced by the President of RA, Jorge Lacão ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 917 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the preservation and opposition to the mining exploitation of Argemela ( The Greens ), 999 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prevent the exploitation of mineral deposits in Argemela ( PAN ), 1289 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the presentation of the missing elements for assessment of a possible mining operation in Argemela greenhouse by local authorities and populations involved and assumes and corroborates the position of the entities involved in the decision to be delivered ( PSD ), 1293 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government not conclude a contract for the granting of mining operations in Argemela ( BE ), 1294 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By assessing environmental risks and the impact on economic activities resulting from the possible mining concession in Argemela, in the district of Castelo Branco ( PCP ), 1307 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Preservation of the Argemella greenhouse ( PS ) and 1314 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take all the necessary steps to protect and preserve Argemel's greenhouse by involving local populations and authorities ( CDS-PP ) on this mission. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 944 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The urgent review of the railway infrastructure investment intentions of the 2020 Railway Plan, including again the railway connection to the Faro Airport in the national rail investment priorities ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u403	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u404	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u405	Mr President, it is to announce that the Left Block will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u406	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1344 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The improvement of rail transport in the Algarve ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u407	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u408	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u409	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two draft resolutions that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-29.u410	Be registered. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1427 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of investment and health professionals in the Hospital Centre of the Thamega and Sousa, EPE, as well as the improvement of access to hospital health care by the population of the Vale do Sousa and Basso Thamega region ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote on draft resolution No 1438/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government invest in the Hospital Centre of the Thamega and Sousa ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1439 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to strengthen the means for the Hospital Centre of the Thamega and Sousa ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1440 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt the measures necessary for the proper and regular functioning of the Hospital Centre for the Thames and the Sousa, EPE, providing it with the necessary human resources and financial resources in order to ensure access to quality and timely health care ( CDS-PP ) for all citizens. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we voted on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 102 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to decriminalise and provide for the unauthorized public execution of commercially edited phonograms and videograms. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of the vote. The next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 4 April, beginning at 3 p.m., with an appeal to the Government No 19 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On the preparation of the next fire season ( CDS-PP ). There's nothing else to deal with, I wish all of you and all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, a good Easter with many almonds and that everything runs for the best of you and your families. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 45 minutes.]]
