ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to get on the agenda, the first of which is from the appeal to the Government No 21 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On precariousness in the science and financing of higher education ( BE ). To open the debate, Mr Luís Monteiro, of BE, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Bloc wants, first of all, to welcome the presence here, in the galleries today, of associations of fellow students, of higher education unions, of several university officials, of academic associations, of student movements and of people who fill the day-to-day of higher education institutions and who accompany the parliamentary debate. And we do it not because the opportunity is unique, not because we are only here in the Assembly of the Republic. We recall, therefore, some of the crucial moments of recent times linked to the sector: firstly, the great manifestation of students from the University of Coimbra, last March, on the date of the commemoration of the Student Day; the protests in Lisbon, Porto and Braga against the neighbours and in defense of more social stock exchanges, which brought together hundreds of students on the streets of these cities; the demonstrations against the boycott at PREVPAP (Unordinary Regularization Program of the Precise Links in the Public Administration) in Porto, Lisbon, in Coimbra, in Aveiro; the monthly concentrations in defense of the gainful progressions— « yes, it is to be fulfilled! "—where we are also. But what makes so many people go out on the street? contrary to what the government may think, they did not go out on the street to celebrate the good results of politics in the area of higher education and science, but because in this process it is important to highlight two moments. First, the Government has helped universities to circumvent the law itself, which says that these researchers are precarious and that it has been created to regularize their links, and in fact the Government, in conjunction with university leaders, uses bipartite arbitral commissions to deny the rights that the law provides for researchers. In the case of teachers, for example, we look at the percentage situation: a rule has been created which requires the hiring of teachers who have at least 80 % hours of hours of schooling. Now, this rule is absurd, it is a rule that, in fact, is not written because nobody accepts it as such, no one wants to look for it, but the truth is that it has done hundreds and hundreds of teachers out of the regularization programme and thank him, obviously, for the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education and for the honourable Members. Regents. But we also look, for example, at the question of the application of Law No 57 / 2017. To date, in a universe of more than 2000 post-doctoral scholarships, covered by the law of stimuli for scientific employment, only 71 contracts were sent to the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation) for funding. Moreover, neither the FCT itself, as a registrar, opened the tenders to regularize its own precarious contracts of science and technology management scholarships. We have here one case where, instead of setting an example in compliance, it reinforces the arguments so that the law is not met. It's true to say « in the house of Ferrão, dick spec! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Congratulations from BE.]] Knowing that the transitional rule expires at the end of August of this year, we are faced with a clear inconsequence of the law. The government has seen this horror film without reacting in the right time and manner. Why don't you want the gentlemen. Rectors applying the law? With contracts paid by the State? No additional costs for your budgets? Well, actually, for those who today are the owners of the Academy in the integration of precariouss is more expensive the political bill than the financial bill. But the scourge of precariousness is not used alone; it comes from drag with the chronic underfinancing of higher education. According to OECD data, published in a recent study, higher education is far below the OECD average. The OECD average is 2, 3 % of public expenditure, that of the European Union is 1, 9 %, Portugal does not exceed 0, 8 %. Public funding for higher education in Portugal is the least representative in Europe and the OECD, representing only 54 % of these costs, remaining the remaining 46 % of families and students — propines, fees and emoluments; indeed, rates and fees that should not even exist. Therefore, it is really a problem, a social scourge for these students, who deserve free and quality public higher education and for which the State does not give them a decent answer. We're not, ladies and gentlemen. Members, condemned to be the tail of Europe in the values we invest in higher education and the scientific system. These numbers, it is important to say - they are marked by a study requested by the Government to the OECD — we have been in this presentation three or four months ago — and I imagine that you also leave Mr. Minister at the will to sign below, as you did with the 2018 Science Manifesto. Therefore, everything in which, in fact, if you are going to criticize the government's financing policy a little bit, we are well aware of the position of the Minister, who is signing below. However, it is to answer the capital question: when you do not invest, who pays the salaries of teachers and researchers? Who pays for the light from higher education institutions? Who pays the water? Who pays the current expenses? Well, actually, it's been the students, who pay absurd values of propines. One third of the budgets of higher education institutions are propensity, rates and emoluments. Adding to this value, which can reach more than 1000 € / year, there are such rates, emoluments, requests for note analysis, etc. , which, in fact, is a very comfortable form, too, for the honourable Members. Recitors continue to finance their higher education institutions not at the expense of positive budgetary balances, which are part of these institutions but at the expense of students. Well, we could go back to the situation. Let us look, for example, at what was approved in the State budget on the creation of a national table for rates and emoluments—see, for example, only, proposed by the Socialist Party's own Parliamentary Group. But if Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education does not even hear the majority of parliament, much less hear the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. The proposal has been adopted in the State budget, we expect it to be implemented by the government, but there seems to be little will to do so. It is worth the word of the principals on the word of Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education. Therefore, the crisis of this funding is closely reviewed in high and social action to peak. The gap between the value paid by students to license and the support that the State guarantees is among the highest in Europe. But it doesn't have to be like that. Ladies and gentlemen! Against the inevitability, I am referring to some specific cases of countries free of propina in the integrated degrees and masters: Austria, Denmark, Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, Germany — see only one example given by the parties on the right — Greece, Malta, Norway, Sweden, Sweden, and we could continue the role... In fact it was easier to list the countries that still continue to maintain an aggressive policy as it happens in Portugal. In fact, in Portugal, politics is another: we have a minister who believes that, by reducing vacancies in some courses, he transfers students to the interior of the country. It does not change the scholarship regulation, it no longer provides support for social action, it does not guarantee university residences for these students and thinks that, just cutting vacancies on the coast, the students will run to the interior of the country! We remember that, for example, in 2003, when the then Minister Dr. Pedro Lynce cut vacancies in public higher education, in the year following the vacancies in private higher education fired. So we know that kind of maneuver well. And from the bags we quickly jump into the housing crisis. On the lack of university residency, the government, late, presents a study, but we do not know very well how it wants to solve the problem. Is it with credit, how does it already do with the payment of tips by opening credit lines for higher education students instead of investing in social action? Oh, my God! We're waiting for the answers, you still don't know exactly what it is like. Besides real estate speculation, which throws hundreds of students into the street, it's worth the Ministry's speculation! Answering the problems of those who suffer most from neoliberal policies that have reached the Academy is not, in fact, because of marketing maneuvers, as Mr Minister has been getting used to. at a time when the Socialist Party took on a priority in its Congress to create conditions for the Portuguese who emigrated in recent years to return to Portugal, it has a great opportunity here: firstly, ensuring that the scientific system and higher education have funding to receive the qualified frameworks that came out of the country; and, secondly, but, firstly, to ensure that those who are here do not go to the streets. The Block knows where it stands: on the side of the victims of precariousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u3	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u4	I will finish, Mr. President. The Block is positioned on the side of the victims of precariousness, of students without scholarship, of those excluded from decisions on the life of their higher education institution. But where did the government actually stand? Keep your obstinacy for a foundational model, defeated this week at the University of Coimbra! Closes the doors to a review of the stock exchange regulation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u5	Mr President, you really have to conclude, because your time has already gone far beyond you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u6	You'd rather feed bank loans than cut them off! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, finishing up, and as it was written on the walls in May 68, in Paris, « nothing will be like before ». The consciousness of a subalternized class today wins voice in institutions. The precarious ones, the students returned to the street and the discussion, today, about higher education, is that the power within the Academy is again under discussion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u7	Mr Luís Monteiro, you have written to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Pimpão, to whom I give the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by welcoming the Left Block for providing this very important discussion in plenary. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the Left Block to schedule a debate to denounce the lack of funding for higher education when this budget is in force by the hand of the Left Block. This would even have its grace and originality had not been the fact that we are in a country where the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education himself subscribes a Manifesto where government policies are criticized in the area of higher education and science. [[PSD applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was important that the Left Block, instead of attempting to pretend that it had nothing to do with the situation, should do a contingencies with regard to the underfunding situation that this protection has caused in higher education institutions. It was still clear this week, with the question of wage progressions, that the government is pushing responsibilities for universities, for polytechnics, paying only part of its responsibilities. The situation is very clear in our country: on the one hand, we have the government that announces to the Portuguese that the end of austerity has come; then, when he makes the accounts, he realizes that he has no money to fulfill his own promises—see the case of the evaluation of teachers. In the specific case, it puts universities and polytechnics in a situation of financial imbalance, forcing them to pay the government's promises without transferring their money. The Left Block, which supports the Government, in Parliament adopts a Budget which then says it is a bad budget in the area of higher education and science. Mr. Luís Monteiro, what was important, not only for the area of higher education but for our country, was that two things happened: first, that the government should stop promising what it knows it cannot fulfill; second, that the Left Block, the CFP and the Green Party should stop noticing that they are not responsible for this State budget and that, after they have approved the Budget, they would not criticize the wrong budget that they approved. We all need a position of greater responsibility and face-to-face towards the Portuguese and, therefore, Mr Luís Monteiro, asked you two questions. First question: what is the consistency of the Left Block, which approves one thing in Parliament and pleads another? Second question: what are the concrete and constructive proposals to value higher education institutions in Portugal? PSD applause.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a delay in the Bureau. Following the intervention of the Left Block should have taken place the Government's intervention and the question period should have begun only later, but this does not prevent us from continuing. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Luís Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u10	Mr President, Mr Pimpão, the PSD, when it speaks in coherence, reminds me of three particular episodes which I consider to be structural for the debate we are doing here today in this plenary. The first episode concerns remuneration progress. We were in this Chamber discussing the State budget in the specialty and the PSD position in relation to the defreezing of careers was to say « it is a corporate commitment of the parliamentary majority to the public function ». Do you now come to defend the paid progress of the teachers when you took this in your first intervention of the State budget? Oh, my God! The second episode has to do with PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precarious Links in Public Administration ). During his discussion in plenary, Mr. PSD said: « PREVPAP serves to regularize the new left-wingers, boys, who are in the Public Administration and the State. » So, now, the PSD claims that the Left Block votes what it does not want to be fulfilled? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u11	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u12	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u13	Are you here to say that the Left Block votes exactly the opposite of what it defends? Oh, my God! No, we have voted in favour of everything that is currently being boycotted. And on PREVPAP you have nothing, strictly nothing, to say, because in relation to Law No 57 / 2017 you stand on the side of institutions that do not want to comply with the Law. As a Member who is, because he also has the power to monitor the enforcement of the law, it really mattered that he had a more proactive role and that he did not just make a stage, a politicism that is of little interest to the debate we are holding here. The third episode refers to the 2018 Manifesto Ciência Portugal. The PSD signs the Manifesto which criticizes the application of Law No 57 / 2017? Oh, my God! Is that the PSD position? Oh, my God! We should also understand this, because by criticizing the Minister's signature, he also undertakes, perhaps, to explain whether it really is in favour or whether it is against what the Manifesto is defending. In fact, on the part of the PSD, we know very few answers either in relation to financing, combating precariousness, the problem of progress, because at the time these measures were discussed and voted on, the PSD was against all of them. It has been against the gainful progress, it has been against the creation of PREVPAP, it has actually been — and it is currently — against the correct application of Law No 57 / 2017 because it does not want to face the power of the rectors. That is also the debate we are having today. The PSD is on whose side? of the leaders who do not want to apply the Law correctly or are on the side of the Assembly of the Republic that has changed the Law and want it to be properly complied with? There are answers for giving, but we are already used to that from the PSD. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u14	Answers, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u15	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Manuel Heitor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I cannot fail to thank the Block on the Left for this opportunity here, and we will present our responsible strategy and our serious policy, of stability and serenity, in what is now higher education and science in Portugal and Europe. I begin by presenting what the Government approved yesterday in the Council of Ministers, which took place after a public debate over the last three months, and, as you all know, after the assessment that the OECD has made of the development of Portuguese higher education in the last decade. Yesterday, we approved a structural reform, obviously the result of this public debate, which, above all, introduces for the first time in Portugal the need for evaluation and accreditation of all cycles of higher education study become dependent on the structure of the teaching body. We need to understand what's at stake. From the end of the current evaluation period, the accreditation of institutions and the accreditation of any cycle of studies will become dependent, for example, in universities, on the presence of 50 % to 70 % of associate and academic teachers in the structure of the faculty, having been required two thirds in career positions, and, in the case of political education, on the presence of at least 50 % of major coordinator teachers and 50 % of coordinator teachers. What we are doing is, of course, a structural education reform for the next decade in Portuguese higher education, so as to position it in the European context in close association with research and development activity. Therefore, in a progressive, gradual and above all constructive way, clear measures of better articulation were included not only between scientific activity and higher education activity, extending the research activity to all and any study cycle and to all types of institutions, in political and university education, but above all, articulating the accreditation and evaluation of graduate cycles and, in particular, of doctoral cycles, with the evaluation of scientific activity. In addition to this set of structural measures for the next decade, made with the responsibility of looking at the past and proud of the recent years of application of the Evaluation Act and the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions, it is known that, during the last year and a half, we have implemented, with the support and involvement of this Parliament, a programme to stimulate scientific employment within which five distinct lines have been opened. It is true that we have faced difficulties, but the diagnosis is well known and we never let ourselves be overcome by difficulties. And by opening up the priority to scientific employment, we knew well that we were facing one of the most critical and even more conservative aspects in some of our higher education and scientific research institutions. We have therefore also opened it up for the Portuguese, Portugal and for the development of our scientific capacity, with more employment, with more qualified employment and, above all, with more scientific employment. The results are coming. Under the Stimulation Programme for Scientific Employment, the first competition for institutional employment has already been opened and implemented in Portugal, and 58 scientific employment plans have been approved in different institutions and consortia throughout the country, being associated with 400 new positions. The 2017 competition was launched and the 2018 competition for individual applications is already in preparation. In accordance with the transitional standard of Law No 57 / 2017, approved in this Parliament, 1930 new contracts were processed between the institutions and the Science and Technology Foundation. More than 1600 research and development projects were approved and this competition had an exceptional standard for the compulsoryity of each research project to be associated with at least one work contract. It is in this process, of continuous effort to work with the institutions, that today we recognize, indeed, a continuous need for dialogue with the institutions, dialogue with the unions, dialogue with the research associations, which we have stimulated, promoting all the mechanisms necessary to accelerate what is a process of combating precariousness, adopted by the government as a clear priority in the field of science. More science and social and economic development implies more scientific employment, but also more science and more social and economic development implies the constant struggle for bureaucracy and the complexity of our administrative processes. The Government also decided yesterday to exempt the scientific and higher education institutions from public procurement processes to the European thresholds, in the context of the development of research and development activities. More science, less bureaucracy; more science, more scientific employment — it is what encourages us. We have fought the difficulties and therefore I thank the debate and involvement of this Government in all these measures. Speaking of precariousness, we must not forget the effort that has been made, particularly with trade union fronts, in dialogue with institutions — not always in agreement with all of them — but in open and constructive dialogue within the framework of the programme to combat precariousness in public administration. in this context, about 1100 employees have already been regularized in general careers, and this must certainly be recognized as a struggle to continue and to continue in higher education. at the level of the teaching body, always in dialogue with the union fronts and, as I said, with the institutions, not always in agreement but in dialogue, were duly regularized all the conditions of non-compliance of the statutes of the teaching career, political and university, knowing that it is a continuing debate. The process is not completed, but it will certainly reach a good port. at the level of researchers, also a special career clearly addressed in the framework of PREVPAP, has been made an effort to dialogue with the trade union fronts and also with the institutions—again again, not always according to the institutions—to ensure that all researchers who have had employment contracts in international competition processes are effectively regularised.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u17	It was good, it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u18	Are there any difficulties? Of course there is. We do not hide them, but we do not let ourselves defeat them, and so step by step, we are building a better, more progressive higher education, more open to all and in a European context, where Portuguese higher education and its scientific activity are gradually recognized. I leave a reference to the clear role of Portugal in the development of the next Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development of the European Union. We want a Europe with more Portugal, we want Portugal with more Europe and our active involvement in scientific institutions, in what will be the future framework programme, has been duly articulated at the level of the Council, at the level of the Commission and in recent weeks in a continuous and open debate at the level of the European Parliament. The fight against precariousness is made with more science, less bureaucracy and certainly more social and economic value for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u19	Ten Members have signed up to put requests for clarification. The Minister informed the Bureau that he would respond to a first group of three, a second of four and a last of three requests for clarification. First of all, Mr José Soeiro of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u20	Mr President, Minister, came here to announce a future reform, but I wanted to talk to you about a process in progress. And it's not worth throwing solutions for 2023, and we're sending off the edge today, precariously, in higher education institutions. I am, of course, talking about the process of regulating precariousness. We knew that the generality of the rectors was against, but the rectors are not above the law. We in this Parliament explicitly included in Article 2. that of the Law, which covered all careers, general and special—are not only general careers, Minister—and which were covered by universities, including the universities-foundation. Also in Article 8. that of the Law—it was even a period suggested by the Government in its negotiations with us—we determined that the tenders would be opened within 30 days from the date of entry into force of this Law. This law entered into force on 1 January. Therefore, Minister, this process has been marked by a lack of transparency regarding evaluation processes and by inconceivable delays. There are people who have been waiting for years to see their situation regularized and who arrive in July and do not even have information on the progress of their process, because the CAB(bipartite evaluation committees) have not yet decided and have not decided. This is inconceivable! It's a disrespect for the law and it's a disrespect for the people. This process has also been marked by a set of boycotts in the two-party evaluation committees. I would like to say, Minister, that the principals may have the opinion they understand, but are not above the law. And there is no boycott that can be made without the government, because the principals do not have a majority in these CABs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u22	I would therefore like to ask you how it is possible what is happening, at this time, with regard to PREVPAP, with researchers and with teachers. With the researchers, it is said « good, they are not framed by an illegal figure, because the scholarships are not illegal». But the question that is put in PREVPAP is not that, is whether a scholarship is concealing a permanent need that should be framed with a work contract. That's the question. At the West Hospital Center, there are workers who don't even have ties with the Public Administration, they have it with a private company! And it is not because they have ties with a private company that are not covered by a process of regularization of the Public Administration, because that bond is a form of dissimulation. Therefore, this argument about the pockets, about the researchers, is unacceptable. Another argument used is to say: "This is not with PREVPAP. Yes, in fact, they are researchers, yes, in fact, they are permanent needs, but they use other instruments, that is not PREVPAP. Do not keep on seeking. ” Third argument that they use: "It is true that they are researchers, it is true that this may not be the right way, but they are not a permanent need. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Minister, it would be said that, in the opinion of some of the leaders of higher education institutions, there is no permanent research needs in Portugal. So I ask you, Minister: why did we do PREVPAP? We did not do PREVPAP to not include researchers or teachers. We did not do PREVPAP to entertain, we did it to regulate these situations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u23	I give a final example, that of the teachers: How is it possible that, in the evaluation committees, if you are invoking the argument that only those who have 80 % of school time can be integrated or can be covered? Oh, my God! How is it possible, for example, that a teacher who has a time of 50 % and another teacher with a time of 50 %, who are performing permanent needs, is not regularized by this programme? Oh, my God! Minister, the law we have done is to comply with and neither the principal nor the government are above the law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u24	To make requests for clarification, Mrs Nilza Sena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u25	Mr President, Minister, here made an initial intervention of generalities, trivialities and abstractions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u26	All right! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u27	In fact, he has been lost in his redundancy, in a rhetorical maze, but he has not answered strictly anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u28	It wasn't to answer, it was to expose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u29	Come to debate, Minister! Let's talk about precariousness, which is what this is about. Mr Minister, there is an approved law—it is not under discussion, it is approved—and there is practice surrounding the law. Why are there institutions circumventing the law, Minister? Why? The government has committed itself to transferring funds to higher education institutions to be able to comply with the law and, so far, Minister, zero! Zero compromise, zero compliance with your proposals! The FCT itself, Minister, also says that scientific employment is fundamental, in fact, the only flag of the Minister. And what does the FCT do, Minister? He doesn't comply with the law of scientific employment. Don't even open competitions in your own paintings! See, Minister, these titles. [[Right now, the speaker showed a newspaper news.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u30	You can't read from here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u31	The titles are: FCT closes the door to payment of retroactives to pockets; Doctors require compliance with the law and there are already complaints in the Ombudsman. Minister, isn't this precarious? Oh, my God! If it's not precarious, what is it? Mr President, how is the situation of the disabled in the civil service? Mr. Minister has done as his government colleague. The Minister for Finance refuses to answer this question. Mr Minister does not answer this either. But the truth is this: they promised, in 2016, they created expectations, they were deceiving people. So I ask, Minister: how many deficiencies have been incorporated by the State? Mr. Minister, I tell you: none! Zero, Minister! Now explain to this House the following: there are nearly 20,000 contracts in the future, in the state — they are given from the Statistical Summary of Public Employment — the true precarious ones. When do you include them, Minister? I'll leave you two or three questions to conclude. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] How many precarious are they entering until 2015 and how many are they entering after 2015? Mr Minister, you have 55 million in the State budget for scientific employment. You didn't spend a penny, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u32	You're kidding, aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u33	Mr Minister, I tell you what is the answer to this: there is no economic miracle, there is no minister in higher education and, Minister, I am sorry, but there is also no Santo Centeno. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u34	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor also to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u35	Mr President, Mr Minister, in fact, it is not all done, we know that it is not all done. But we regret that sometimes the speech that favours what is still being done and seeks to forget how much has been done... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u36	Tell that to the people who are waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u37	...to be, after all, a form of those who say they want to change their hand to those who are against all this. We know that there are those who speak of precariousness here, when, in fact, they would never do anything to combat precariousness, because they were the main promoters of precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Therefore, let us be able to take stock of what has been done and also of what is lacking, but with responsibility. Only one word about PREVPAP, because we will be back there: PREVPAP has not been made to disregard legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u38	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u39	PREVPAP has not been made to change legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u40	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u41	PREVPAP was done to enforce the legislation, it was done to combat abuses, it was not done to destroy careers, wanting to get into careers who don't have the qualifications to enter there...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u42	Oh, are they disqualified now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u43	...and wanting to respect careers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Respecting careers is meeting the rules that are in the law: permanent needs and correction of inappropriate links. There are other instruments. Special careers are in PREVPAP, but they are also in other instruments. It is respecting the instruments for promoting employment, which are worthy and with rights, that we will do our work, and not disrespecting those instruments. But, Minister, I would like to ask you not only about the correction of inherited precariousness, which is a long and complex work, but which is being done, but about another matter. We are also looking to the future, we are launching a structurally different way of looking at scientific employment. It was approved yesterday — we saw this information in the media — the new Law Regime of Degrees and Diplomas of Higher Education. First question: I wanted you to confirm whether what we know about the period of public discussion remains. This new legal regime promotes a structural fight against precariousness, because it makes the accreditation of all study cycles dependent on strict compliance with the law on the relationship between career teachers and invited teachers. It is a regime that promotes careers, because it stimulates the development of careers to the top, insofar as it counts for the accreditation of studies cycles. It is a regime that promotes a structural battle against precariousness, because it determines that it is the faculty itself for accreditation purposes, that what counts are teachers and career researchers promoting careers and also because it requires that a certain number of academic responsibilities can only be assumed by teachers or career researchers. Mr Minister, we do not yet know the diploma as it has been approved in the Council of Ministers, but we would like to know whether these matters are fundamental to a structural and future fight against precariousness, if they remain in what has been approved, because that is essential for us. Mr Minister, there is no scientific employment if there is no more creation of scientific employment, if there is no social activity, economic activity, activity in territories which create scientific employment, which creates demand for scientific employment. There, collaborative laboratories are essential because they combine an intelligent strategy of the State — a state that does not leave everything to the market and expects the market to perform miracles — with the private, with the companies, with the cultural associations and association structures, with the public institutions of other sectors, such as health. Mr Minister, we already know that six collaborative laboratories have already been approved. We know there's another 23 for approval. We want to know to what extent this line of work will contribute to strengthening the social appropriation of science and thus the effective consolidation of scientific employment as a central strategy for the development of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u44	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Manuel Heitor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, that these debates are particularly important and structural to clarify issues. Some of the questions put by Mr Soeiro have already been duly clarified last Tuesday in committee, but I think it is particularly important to refer to three aspects on the implementation of PREVPAP. First of all, the priority given by the Government to this issue, certainly with the support of this Parliament, must be emphasized, knowing well the difficulties naturally inherent in the analysis of each case. Mr PreVPAP, in the context of general careers or special careers, is being applied in the same way, on the basis of the two criteria which you well know: on the one hand, the adequacy of the links and, on the other hand, the permanent needs of work. Of course, the approval rates of general careers were, or are, quite higher than the approval rates of some special careers. That is why, as I said in general careers at present, we have regularization rates above 70 %, with around 1090 properly regularised employees today, and therefore we have a clear fight against what are so-called 'false exchanges', particularly in the area of science and technology management. There are concrete results that show this debate. With regard to special careers, of course they are included and of course we have established a dialogue, as said, constructive, positive and continuous, with the trade union fronts, and a dialogue, not always in agreement with the institutions. Obviously, the guidelines I have given are for the full compliance of the law, as could not be otherwise. And here no one is above the law, no directors, no political presidents, nor, certainly, none of us. One thing I can confirm is that there is no 80 % criterion. I have already explained the details with the Committee on Education and Science, and I know that the Commission has also heard the President of the CAB, with whom I spoke on Tuesday morning at the end of the morning, and I must say that, in the context of what were the teachers with the situation already regulated in PREVPAP, there was indeed a large majority, about 85 % of the cases, of invited teachers with contracts above 80 % of dedication, but there was also about 15 % of the cases below 80 %. Of course, we must realize that the statutes of the teaching career in force in this country only limit the hiring to 100 % for more than four years. This dialogue has been made and, therefore, has been necessarily used and regularized concrete cases with other conditions. But we also have to realize that, while for general careers PREVPAP is the most active tool for the regularization of bonds, we have other processes underway in general careers. We can ask: Are they active? They are, of course, both in the field of scientific employment and in particular in relation to the processes themselves in the institutions. We have completely ended with the abusive hiring of invited teachers through only a provision of nominal information in all institutions and, therefore, we are using several instruments of pressure, regularization and constant dialogue with the institutions. I am not going to reply directly to Mrs Nilza de Sena, because, for God's sake, I am talking about precariousness in this area? Oh, my God! I really don't understand any of the questions you have asked. But I would also like to reply to Mr Porfirio Silva. It is particularly important to realize that we need to clearly combine what the daily action on combating existing situations is and, at the same time, to plan the future in a structural way and to give confidence to future generations. We have no more science, we have less science; we have no more higher education, we have less, and therefore we have to continue this effort of the Portuguese to regulate situations. After ten years of the introduction in Portugal of the conditions of accreditation, what we are doing is a decisive step towards the clear fight against precariousness at work in teaching, academic and research careers, giving a clear signal to the diversification of careers. We want different and diverse careers and we want mobility between careers so that we can build a higher education than the measure and reference of best European practices, in which, for example, in universities we can have teaching careers with 50% to 60% of professors. This is the ambition for the next decade, which is clearly registered in what is today the legal regime of degrees and diplomas approved this week. For this reason, structural measures have been introduced for the coming years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u46	Mr Minister, the Bureau records four further requests for clarification. The first will be placed by Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo of the CDS-PP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, on 15 May, at a regiment hearing, on behalf of this Parliamentary Group, raised the issue of reviewing access to higher education. I asked a specific question to which Mr Minister gave no answer. We mean to insist. Mr President, the OECD — something which has already done here today — is repeatedly cited by the Minister, and he even bases many of his political decisions on the opinions of the OECD and its leaders. It is therefore worth recalling that on the very day on which the OECD report on higher education and science was presented another report on the Ministry of Education. Well, it is to be remembered that the OECD insists, and much, on the revision of the rules on access to higher education. It is also true that in October 2016 the Minister — already two years ago — commissioned a study, more precisely, to set up a working group to assess the mechanisms for access to higher education and to present proposals in this area, saying "to suggest clues and find a broad consensus among the various actors involved in the education system, underlining the concern of contributing to a higher level of qualification of the Portuguese population". Now, produced at the end of 2016, the report of the work, the diagnosis achieved and the subsequent issues raised by the debate, all Mr. Minister intended to leave in the drawer. And according to his words, it was not the right time. However, the OECD, once again the OECD, through its Director for Education, Andreas Schleicher, the parents and so on, teachers and students, all understand and defend the opposite: this is the right time. In addition, the National Association of Grouping Directors of Public Schools, through its President, recently launched the challenge of deciding on the model of access to higher education and the National Council of Education, although some reservations on the recommended suggestions, characterized the Report as an important contribution to improving access to higher education, even stating that the recommendations reflected in the opinion it produced should be taken into account. Thus, it seems that everyone is calling for a revision of the system of access to higher education, which has been promised by the government. Therefore, on behalf of the CDS, I ask the Minister what he intends to do about it and if it is not the time to open the drawer. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u48	Also for a request for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u49	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members, first of all, I greet the workers of higher education and science, in particular the teachers, fellow students and researchers or other technicians present here and their associations and trade unions, who have been in constant struggle to defend their rights. The precariousness of higher education and science seems to have no end to it. And if the CFP, with its intervention, has done everything so that this is not the reality, defending, without difficulty, the right to the contract of work, the truth is that we are, on June 29, 2018, two months from the conclusion of the second term of the transitional standard. From 1930 doctoral pockets and identified under Decree-Law No 57 / 2016, only 71 work contracts were sent to the second FCT. There are successive obstacles to the law by the institutions, researchers, who were the recipients of the transitional standard, to hire teachers, exclude doctors hired by public funds, such as the University of Algarve, UTAD (University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro ) or the IST ( Higher Technical Institute ), invent foundations of private law to which doctors have never even performed functions, as is the case with IST-ID and others. The Programme for the Regularization of Precary Links in Public Administration follows the lead of requests, especially from invited teachers, researchers and technical staff. It is obvious from everything, Mr Minister, that we do not recognize the permanent bond between workers who have been in institutions for years and years. The question that is being raised around the guest teachers does not match what has been said here, Minister, because in fact the numbers show that what has happened is a rule that only recognizes the working link to which the dedication time is between 80 % and 100 %. What we have to say is that this also does not match the precarious practices that exist in the institutions, because there is a systematic abuse of the specially hired teacher figure, in place of career recruitment, and that cannot be. That, yes, should be the criterion to be taken into account, because the opposite is a leak to the legality and the rights of those who work. Therefore, the question we want to leave you, Minister, is whether or not the Government will continue to be an integral part of this kingdom of impunity and this carousel of precariousness which is being lived in higher education and science, or whether it will finally take the necessary measures to ensure that each stock market, each precarious link corresponds to the just and necessary contract of work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u50	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u51	Mr President, Minister, it must be acknowledged that given the absolutely disastrous policy of the PSD/CDS government on science and scientific research,... [[PSD laughter.]] ...which easily annihilated this area, in view of the measures that were being taken, created a great expectation in relation to solutions that could be found by a PS government. In view of these expectations, the PS government has two hypotheses: either it corresponds to these expectations or it cheats them. I would dare to say that the choice is for the Minister and the Government. But, Mr Minister, what I think is fair to ask you at this point is that the Minister is fixing his sleeves and that, instead of signing manifests, he does indeed make the problems solved and the solutions already found can be translated into practice. That must be the position of a government minister in this area as well as in others.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u52	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u53	Mr Minister, I believe that, in discursive terms, we will all be united in relation to the importance of scientific research. The problem, then, is when we translate these speeches into practice, in the voting of diplomas in concrete and in the finding of concrete solutions. And there are basically two problems that need an urgent solution. One concerns the issue of financing. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Pimão.]] What was most lacking, Mr Pedro Piimpão, is that no one in the Assembly of the Republic claimed more investment in science and scientific research. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Pimão.]] And let me tell you why: because we will certainly not find this claim on the side of the PSD and CDS. It was all down at the time when they had government responsibilities. So here we assume our responsibility: to work to increase funding and investment, because we consider it to be crucial for the development of the country, as it is an essential component of this development.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u54	Two to zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u55	Another aspect concerns what has already been discussed today — and which deserves the continuation of the discussion — which has to do with the fight against precariousness. The truth is that we are talking about highly skilled workers. We are talking about thousands of researchers who have been performing permanent tasks for several years with highly precarious links. Do we need them or do we rule them out, Minister? The truth is that respect for these workers will have everything to do with the results that we too can achieve at the level of what I was rightly referring to: the importance of the results of science for the promotion of our development. We are talking about the motivation of workers, not of collaborators, Minister. We are talking about motivation and respect for workers, people who work and therefore deserve to be remunerated and have an effective employment contract in relation to the role it performs. That is really what we are talking about, we are not talking about collaborators or volunteers, and that is why we have to see this perspective. But we are before a law that includes a very clear transitional standard, where all doctors over three years have the possibility of being hired, and the truth is that the institutions, the rectors refuse to apply this transitional standard.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u56	They don't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u57	I was shocked when I once put the question here, directly, and I heard a member of the government say that, in view of the autonomy of the institutions, he can do nothing to force them to comply with the law. I see that the Minister has already reversed the speech at least a little by saying that he is now pressing on the institutions. For I would like to know exactly what pressure mechanisms are being used by the Government to also understand its practical effectiveness in relation to what is required, which is the enforcement of the law. I'd like you to detail that a little more. Regarding PREVPAP, which has already been mentioned here, we are talking about science workers with accepted requests, where universities, in large part, report that they do not correspond to permanent needs. Therefore, we are here before interests that do not correspond to the public interest of the country, of effective respect for these workers and for the functions they are performing. Mr Minister, the resistance of the institutions cannot correspond in any way to the liabilities of the Government. Therefore, Mr Minister, raise your sleeves and do what is essential: to create justice also in the field of science and scientific research. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u58	For a final request for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u59	Mr President, Minister, for the worst reasons, precariousness is now a dominant issue in the field of science in Portugal. We had everything not to do so, but higher education institutions have said so, because they feel that they can go unpunished from any trouble to the law. That's the big problem. On the law of scientific employment, Law No 57 / 2017 was created to remove more than 2000 post-doctoral pockets from the precariousness, but so far — it has been said — the institutions have only sent to the FCT 71 contracts for financing. This number is absolutely unacceptable at the moment, considering the deadlines that exist. We have come to see, by several higher education institutions, the insistence on bypassing the law and finding all kinds of subterfuges to escape the fair integration of these people into careers and institutions. Let us look at the example of the Higher Technical Institute, which is an institution that Mr. Minister knows very well and, indeed, where some ministers, State Secretaries and Presidents of the FCT came from over the years: instead of following legislation and combating precariousness, he signals the precariouss through the IST-ID, a private association whose only associate is the IST itself, which supposedly serves to manage research projects. Therefore, the only thing the IST-ID is serving is to be an outsourcing company of the Technical Higher Institute, thus maintaining precariousness. This is absolutely unacceptable. But there is more, Mr Minister, about the IST-ID ( Association of the Higher Technical Institute for Research and Development ). It is that, still this week, candidates are under pressure to sign a statement on how they recognise their institution—not the IST, the Technical Higher Institute, but the IST-ID—and, if they do not sign, the IST itself may not open competition. Therefore, Minister, we are faced with an un justifiable and absolutely shameful attitude to try to circumvent the law. And it's this kind of situation that we're talking about in many institutions across the country. So the question is that we should be very clear, Minister. It is not worth continuing to say that the law is to comply, it has to enforce the law, it has to make the Ministry itself not a hat in which the institutions of higher education and the principals will shelter themselves in order to escape the law. It is therefore at the time of being very clear about this, Minister, because so far it has not yet been. Are you or are you not committed to making higher education institutions and directors comply with the law? And will you or will you not penalize those who are running away to the law in such a blatant way as the one described here? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u60	To reply, Mr. Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mrs Ana Mesquita for her speech, with whom we have naturally had the privilege of discussing these issues within the Committee on Education and Science. But I would also like to complement what Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has said here, because she does well to demonstrate what we have done: to recognize and value the public interest in scientific work. We therefore decided, unpublished in Portuguese democracy, to stop financing post-doctoral scholarships at the public level, only to finance scientific employment contracts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This amendment, which has already been carried out by many other reference countries, particularly in Europe, is naturally transforming what is the Portuguese scientific capacity, but above all the effort to strengthen our institutions. It is not an easy measure to implement, but we have implemented it, and we have chosen to give it priority, because obviously, in this government, we do not let ourselves defeat for the difficulties. The Estimulo programme for Scientific Employment in Portugal, which today is a reference in Europe, looks at the news that, still yesterday, went out in El País, about the adoption, now in Spain, of a similar program, using the Portuguese programme as a reference, is effectively achieving a complex and difficult goal and, therefore, we are opening up, and opening up, different fronts of combat. Of course, the law is to comply — nor is it equal in any other way — and therefore we have insisted on a dialogue with the research associations, which the Foundation for Science and Technology (FCT) has done. Even yesterday after the hearing in the Committee on Education and Science, we sent to the legal body of the Government, the CEJUR (Legal Centre of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers ), the way in which Law No 24 / 2018 is being interpreted on 8 June to ensure the spirit of the legislator, which certainly includes processes with retroactives that have to be properly consecrated, because we all want to have more researchers, more labor contracts, and our fight is effectively in relation to scientific employment. I can agree with Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, that here I do not « raise my sleeves », but I do raise them every day, talk to the institutions, to the unions and impose what is the public interest in scientific work. The IST case is the same as all other cases, Mrs. Isabel Pires. And obviously, the law is clear. Of course, the law allows different types of institutions, regardless of whether they are private or public, and therefore I already meet with the IST investigators, combining the positions we are taking either at the head of PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regularization Program of the Precise Links in the Public Administration ), or in the guarantee of the realization of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u62	He did not reply strictly to anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u63	Finally, I cannot but refer to the questions put by Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo on two points. First, I must say that the Government's programme does not include the revision of the access regime. As you have said, very well, the Government's programme, on purpose, includes the analysis that has been made. Changing access conditions is something that has a profound impact on Portuguese society and has to be done in consensual terms. As I had the opportunity to explain, in the Committee on Education and Science, the process of review and analysis, carried out by the working group, did not obtain consensus either at the home of the political institutes or at the home of universities. Therefore, it was the institutions themselves and also the student associations that suggested that we make a gradual adaptation, obviously fulfilling what was in the Government Programme. And don't tell me there have been few changes to the access regime. It has not been done, particularly at the level of the necessary territorial cohesion, which we should have had no change like this year. On the other hand, at the level of short courses for higher education, we cover, extend and, above all, give the dignity of higher education to short courses, significantly altering the practice of access. Enough? No, it's not enough, because we have to ensure that we go from 4 to 6 young people, in every 10 young people aged 20 years, who, by 2030, participate in higher education. And this opportunity has, above all, also to deal with the conditions for extending school social action to all those who finish secondary education in the professional way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u64	We shall continue with the requests for clarification, on the part of a group of three more Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Duarte Marques has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u65	Mr President, Minister, you start your speech in a debate on finance and precariousness, telling us about what you adopted yesterday in the Council of Ministers in a common strategy that we already know and that has nothing to do with these issues, but that comes only to mark the political agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u66	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u67	...and try to disguise what we want to ask you, to try to disguise what the Left Block accuses you of, what the PCP accuses you of, what the Greens accuse you of, which is what the PS also tries to disguise. And what are they trying to disguise here? That the government has created a world of illusions for higher education and science and finally realizes that this is not a political mess. Mr Minister, there is no fight against precariousness, there is no PREVPAP, there is no scientific employment without funding and without commitment from the Government to finance what it proposes. Without this, PREVPAP and scientific employment are nothing more than a political frenzy and an ambush created to entertain researchers and teachers. The fact is that we already have three years of this government and the measures that the Minister had as priority are not on the ground. And this is not because of the institutions, researchers or teachers, but because of the Minister, who is not able to contract with the institutions what should pay them to fulfill what was their promise.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u68	Liar! You can only lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u69	Is Mr. Minister here talking about contracts of trust and stability in financing? Oh, my God! It is Mr Minister who, consecutively, does not fulfil the trust contract! Every year we have the principals and presidents of the politicians here with the same complaint: «the government said that it would pay for salary increases and not pay». Then it is announced that the money is already transferred, even this week, to Parliament that the strengthening of the mandatory changes in the remuneration position has already been transferred, but then we heard the higher education institutions say, vehemently, that it is only one third or 50 %. Minister, this is not serious! This is to continue to deceive the institutions and create false expectations for the Portuguese, because, in fact, it is no more than a fraud and a political outrage. Mr Minister, instead of defending higher education and science, which he so well claims — he has even signed a manifesto against his own government — he is nothing more than the provider or the largest defender of the Minister of Finance. Mr. Minister acts as a protective cover for a government that is beginning to lose the support of the Portuguese. It has already lost the support of the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens ; the support of the PSD and the CDS has never and never had, because, in the matter of science and higher education, it comes up with speeches, it needs action and it needs to be done what is announced. We are tired of hearing rhetoric and saying that there are always others to blame, that it is never this government, it is never this minister, it is never this Prime Minister! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u70	To request clarification on behalf of the CFP, you now have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u71	Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries. Mr Minister, in fact, there are issues of enormous seriousness that require action to be taken in order to resolve them. The continuing underfinancing of higher education institutions is one of these issues. Sub-financing that is not today, under-financing that has been since decades, but has in fact been strangling and conditioning the development of the activities of these institutions both in the pedagogical, teaching, research and scientific development. The consequences of underfinancing are very evident: in addition to the absence of strategic investment in the extension of system coverage, the degradation of infrastructure and equipment installed due to lack of maintenance, and the impossibility of responding in time to the challenges of science and technology, the hiring of teachers and researchers is often done in part time and not in full time, because institutions have no means or financial resources to give this answer. Mr President, in his speeches on this matter, he often mentions that the institutions have the possibility to contract. They have, Mr Minister, but if they do not have the financial resources, if they do not have the budget, this possibility ends up 'falling into a broken bag' and ends up not existing, precisely because of the lack of those same resources. What we have seen, year after year, is that the funding which, through the State budget, is allocated to higher education institutions does not even cover remuneration. In fact, the Government is far from fulfilling its obligations when it does not even guarantee the financing of the current expenditure of these same institutions. Alongside this, families and students are overburdened with the high values of the tips that today constitute obstacles to access to higher education. We believe that it is indeed necessary to ensure the proper financing of higher education institutions through the State budget — financing, this, which not only guarantees current expenditure but also to enable the development of quality at the level of education, research and scientific development — and, once and for all, to ensure equal access and frequency of higher education to all those who wish to access the highest levels of education. That is why, Minister, the question that arises in this regard, even considering the lack of response to the level of social action at school, is that we note an increase in the number of scholarships, but we also note that the overwhelming majority of scholarships are minimal scholarships that little more than cover the value of the grant. This is why measures and public investment are needed in this area as regards the guarantee of means and conditions for higher education institutions to develop what is their mission. It is that this is an investment that is made not only in students but also in the development of the country. That is the answer that is required of your Government, that is to say, that it breaks with those who have been the options of the past, with the options of the governments of the past and that, once and for all, it moves forward in a perspective to guarantee the institutions conditions for them to function and carry out their mission. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u72	Finally, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u73	Mr President, Minister, I will ask a question not yet put here today and to which you have not yet responded. The democratization of access to education has long been threatened. The propines, emoluments and all other actions involving payment in order to continue the studies are inconceivable, even more at a time when the incomes drop dramatically. In the previous government, this was precisely what happened: family income has fallen and access to higher education has become expensive and difficult. The government of the time did not apply any amendments, and neither did we expect it to do so. at this time, there is a recovery of shy income, but the cost of living increases for those who have no income from work and for those who continue the studies. In higher education 49 % of students are displaced. They look for a house in the city where they go and confront themselves with very high rental values. The average value of rent increases exponentially, the result of the liberalisation of the previous government, even more in Lisbon and Porto, but also in Braga, Leiria, Coimbra, Faro and Évora we witness the problems of uncomplicated increase of rents and shortage of rooms to rent. In port and Lisbon, income already amounts to 550 euros and the trend is to increase. In Lisbon, for example, there are about 50 000 students and only 2500 beds in residences. It is thus perceived the gigantic problem that students are facing right now. in this scenario, the small recovery of income leads to these are absorbed by this lease and, in the case of people studying, absorption is even greater. And what answer? The university residences are rented, the tips remain very high, and the new year will start with a huge problem and a “bulge” in the housing needs of the students. There is a survey and a diagnosis—it is true! — there is a credit line for institutions of higher education, already heavily indebted, and a boost with the « belly» of State responsibilities for these institutions: higher education and municipal chambers. The pressure for students to continue studies at other locations is also added. Yeah, that's not an answer, Minister! So, the question now is the following: how many more beds will there be for students as early as September 2018? The mitigation of this elitist of access to higher education is urgent. The universal and free trend is even more at risk, Minister! Does the Minister now, for example, consider abolishing the tip for these students at high rental prices? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u74	To respond to this set of requests for clarification, Mr. Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot fail to thank the references which have been made and I begin with the speech of Mrs Paula Santos, with what indeed characterizes this policy: to break up with the options of the past. Of course, we break radically with the options of the past and therefore we see Mr Duarte Marques' very desperate intervention. In fact, in times when the PSD was in government, the illusion that science policy was a policy of excellence was created, and we then clearly stated that excellence was, above all, an exclusion policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u76	The numbers don't say that, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u77	Breaking with the past included, first of all, breaking with an exclusion policy and transforming it into an inclusion policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u78	Do not forget that the Government of Socrates, which was part of it, was the Government of bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u79	Science is more open, with more inclusion and therefore we recovered about 100 research and development units that had been excluded.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u81	We have, of course, recovered a science funding situation. The 2016 data show that after five years of reduction of public and private funding and investment, we finally began to recover.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u82	So what about data from 2009 when Mr. Minister was Secretary of State? The 2009 ones, the 2010 ones... also dropped!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u83	The preliminary data of 2017, which will certainly be released very soon, show that we are in a process of European convergence, in a process of increasing public and private investment, always considering, as said above, the public interest in scientific knowledge and employment. In fact, let us break with the past, break with the illusions of excellence and today we want a scientific policy of excellence, but of excellence for all, in Portugal and in Europe. That's our break with the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u84	That's a mess, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u85	when we take the break with the past, we know of the difficulties and, therefore, here we are! We know of the difficulties, in particular, in conditions for scientific employment and, therefore, we have imposed the Stimulus Programme on Scientific Employment...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u86	Did they impose? Oh, my God! To whom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u87	... and we are working with the union fronts, with the institutions, in what is the regularization of the bonds. Is everything done? Of course it's not all done! And that's why we're working, daily, with everyone, to do more and better. The ambition of reaching 2030 in a truly excellent European framework is what should encourage us and therefore we must have a journey. A journey that, since 2016, we know it is quite different from the one that was the journey until 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The numbers show, and are continually showing, this path of progressive evolution, with confidence and, above all, attracting young people to scientific work. The number of researchers in Portugal is increasing, the number of researchers in companies is increasing, and we certainly have preliminary data from 2017 that, together with the data from 2016, confirm us the process of European convergence, which is the only one we can have as a design for Portugal : more science, more learning, more scientific employment and certainly the dignity of the public interest, along with the conditions for economic and social development. Along with the Stimulus to Scientific Employment programme, we also launched the challenge to public institutions and private institutions, including businesses, to create a new type of institutions, sharing the risk of job creation. Collaborative laboratories emerge from this effort, today consensual in Portuguese society and adopted up to the European context. On Wednesday I was in Berlin talking about the example of the promotion of collaborative laboratories in Portugal as a case of excellence of public participation in what is an effort to share risk, public and private, and create jobs. Scientific employment also involves more qualified employment and, therefore, today we certainly have the number of researchers in the public sector and in the private sector growing. We have never had since 2010 the growth of the number of researchers in state laboratories as we have today, particularly after 2017. And we had never had the increase in private expenditure in research and development (I & D) to exceed public expenditure in research and development. Is that enough? Don't! Do we want more? We want a lot more! We really want to double public spending by 2030 and multiply private spending by four so that we create more jobs and, above all, better employment in Portugal. To create a better job today is to invest in knowledge, it is to invest in the training of younger people and, of course, we have worked systematically with the public sector and the private sector, but always considering knowledge as a public good. What is today the Portuguese Open Science Strategy has as its basis, in an international European context, the dignity of those who work for the public dissemination of knowledge. We have therefore stimulated scientific repositories and are increasingly disseminating the openness of knowledge to Portugal, the countries of Portuguese expression and Europe. It is a continuous and systematic effort that we must continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u88	This period of protection issues is thus concluded. Let us now enter the period of intervention, for which Mr Alexandre Quintanilla has the floor, on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Since the topic of this debate is the precariousness of science, it is crucial to understand where we come from, where we are and where we want to go.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u91	Portugal began the exploration of knowledge in the Renaissance, but the Inquisition, political instability and dictatorship were implacable to the curiosity and imagination of the Portuguese. Many were persecuted and imprisoned and few were able to emigrate and continue their studies. timid attempts of change that arose over four centuries had no continuity. Democracy has changed this situation. The indicators show that we have left Europe's tail to go beyond the European average in just over 20 years and that of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u93	These results are due to a huge increase in investment in the different fields of knowledge and a clear bet on people and institutions. We have come to invest about 1, 6 % of GDP (gross domestic product) in research and development and to offer nearly 2000 doctoral grants annually. Living Science has seduced thousands of citizens of all ages. Although many have helped build this building, the name Mariano Gago and our entry into the European Union will forever be associated with this metamorphosis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The crisis and the years of the troika have taken us away from this journey. They have lowered those values by about 1, 2 % of GDP and less than 700 annual doctoral grants. In order to have an idea, each tenth reduction in funding amounts to less than 600 funded projects, together with less than 1200 contracts. They have caused unprecedented brain drain in our country's recent history and many research institutions have experienced moments of great insecurity due to the levels of precariousness that have been created. During that half-tenth of years, the confidence of citizens in a future dedicated to the exploitation of knowledge was greatly shaken. This government and its Ministry, Minister, have come to promise a new phase of rapprochement to Europe and the world and a renewed commitment to this knowledge. But hunger was a lot! The urgency was, and it is, huge! Let's look at the recent scenario. In 2017 alone, nearly 5000 applications have been evaluated for projects and the results reported to researchers, which represented a herculus effort by the Foundation for Science and Technology. And we have thousands of researchers to apply for the various competitions already open for employment contracts, with the expectation that they will finally cease to be stockholders. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The percentage of GDP invested rose slightly in 2016, and it is expected to reach 1, 3 % in 2017. The number of doctoral scholarships rose again, to about 1500. The various open competitions offer more than 4000 contracts for researchers. The financing of 34 % of the above projects, worth almost EUR 406 million, is unpublished and reaches its highest value forever. Six collaborative laboratories, which bet on interdisciplinaryness and the translation of knowledge, were approved and 23 others are under evaluation. Polytechnic teaching has been highly valued. [[P.S.'s applause.]] International collaborations have grown and now include much more partners. But, as is public knowledge, researchers feel frustrated with the slowness of change and the bureaucratic complexity not only of applications but also of their daily work. It's natural! When hope increases, expectations increase and everyone wants to run faster. However, the road is still long to reach the promised 3% of GDP by 2030. Walking faster, without damaging the quality and robustness of assessments and follow-up, is dangerous and can weaken the process, as has happened in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, if nothing is done to simplify bureaucracy and increase existing human resources, it is the excellent and careful work that the FCT has done that is compromised. Fortunately, the need for this simplification was the subject yesterday in the Council of Ministers, as has already been mentioned. Researchers also ask for regularity in opening competitions to plan their work less stochastically. This is an ancient ambition of all and we hope that it will be realized in the near future. The Socialist Party knows that, although much has already been done, there is still much to be done and will continue to take on scientific employment as one of its priority national plans. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are confident that your Ministry will continue to meet these expectations in a committed but always thoughtful manner. Rebuilding is not easy and should be done with care. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u94	The Bureau does not record entries for requests for clarification to Mr Alexandre Quintanilla. Thus, for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Prof. Manuel Heitor is an undisputed academic who has, in his curriculum, nine years of exercise of government functions—between 2005 and 2011 and now, since 2015. Much of what is today the higher education system and the scientific and technological system has its own way, under the patronage of its mentor, José Manuel Mariano Gago. With this ascendant and these credentials, his arrival to the government created high expectations in academic and scientific communities. But at the end of almost three years, what we heard repeatedly is this: « The state of grace is over, we are deeply dissatisfied with this governance». It is true that Mr Minister has been in this fight for far more than nine years, as he said at the hearing we had this week. It is not surprising, therefore, that there are many options we have made in a different way along this path. What is surprising is that a man so familiar with the sector did not foresee two major limitations to the implementation of his own programme: the first, the difficulty in managing files, due to the conditioning imposed by the parties on the left, parties which his Government has chosen paradoxically as a basis of support; and the second, the fact that austerity, after all, has not ended and the Finance continue to play a castrative role in its policy. It turns out that we live in a time of wrong options, pushed responsibilities and deferred solutions, that we give three examples. The first is that of scientific employment and Decree-Law No 57 / 2016. There is a problem of abusive recourse to the scholarships — which we recognize — for which the Government has determined a complex solution that did not deserve the CDS agreement. The government budgeted €55 million to solve it in 2017, the very ones it budgeted in 2018, because little or nothing happened. The process will end in August, far less than the 3000 jobs announced, and responsibility is thrown, by the guardianship and by the FCT, to the institutions. The postdoc pockets, the FCT researchers, these, are delivered to themselves. The second example is that of PREVPAP ( Special Programme for the Regularization of Precarious Links in Public Administration ). Although the law establishes that all careers are included, in practice, the criteria essentially cover general careers rather than special careers. of approximately 1600 processes related to teachers and researchers, only 130 generated positive opinion to the linkage and there are no open competitions. Again, the results are far from the expectations created and there is now an added problem. The third example is that of the Legislature contracts, which have been presented as an instrument for the stability of finance in the academy, but each legislative amendment requires the transfer of new funds which always take time. This year, for example, the amounts of remuneration advances due in January, by the State Budget Act, appear to have been transferred on 22 June, and we will still see the amount. We now see the usual pass-backs and, after all, instability in the institutions. In other words, the expectations created by the government do not resist the acid test and, after all, the gold promised is pyrite of iron: it shines, but it is already only the « gold of fools». In the other most fracturing matters, as you say, the Minister opts or does not decide or, with skill, decides not to do so. This is the case with the status of the teaching and research career, which Mr. Minister said he did not want to touch in this legislature, is the case with access to higher education, whose study was commissioned in the drawer, and this is the case with the granting of the degree of doctor by the polytechnic institutes, which Mr. Minister began by rejecting and then approved yesterday in the Council of Ministers, although on a very different path than the OECD suggested. But it is also worth remembering that, in this regard, Mr Minister told us, in the Commission, that he is only giving us a sign and that this is not even to do, because it depends on a review of the Basics Act and the RJIES (the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions), two « Pandora's boxes » that this government does not want to open. And you don't want to open it not because you don't know what's important, but because, in the current context, you'll bring more divisions between the Socialist Party, Bloc and PCP, something that an experienced politician, more than a science man, knows you should avoid. It is in this context that emerges from the scientific community the Manifesto Ciência Portugal 2018, which says : « The programme of this Government for Research, Development and Innovation ( & D & I ), the bet on deburocratization (...) and also the initial dialogue dynamized by the government team with the scientific community created a generalised expectation (... ) that would allow to overcome the challenges of the system. And he adds: "These challenges have not been overcome, with significant obstacles at the moment" — an appeal from the protected community that Mr. Minister decides to endorse, rather than resolve, that decision, which the PS defends, saying 'Mr. Minister has signed up, because he can, and can, because he has a past in science'. The problem, Minister, is the present, the time when he again occupies an executive position, the time when he has commitments with teachers, researchers, fellows and those who represent them, but also with the institutions and with the students, current and future. You are responsible for building solutions, but when you sign this Manifesto, you told all of us that, at the end of three years, the challenges have not been overcome, failed to do so, and self-assessed your mandate in a negative way. There is only one State budget left to improve the state of things. Do you still want to, Minister? Can you still do it? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u96	The Bureau did not register entries for requests for clarification to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa. So, on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: Mariano Gago, as has already been said, was one of the main responsible for the creation of the national scientific and technological system. Mariano Gago had a vision and we can disagree with many aspects of the structure of the scientific and technological system that Mariano Gago invented. It is certainly true that today we have a system that is based on precariousness, and it is not only the Left Block that says so, it is the OECD that recognizes it: Portugal is the champion of precariousness between those who are most qualified. This precariousness, which could well have been only the "pocket pain" of a system, an innovation that is the creation of a scientific system, has become the foundation of scientific research and production capacity. But it is also true that, with all its weaknesses, with all its difficulties, Mariano Gago had the political courage to face the powers installed — and it is necessary to recognize it — when creating the national scientific system. The question that arose, coming to this legislature, was whether Minister Manuel Heitor would have the same political courage to release the national scientific system from its disaster, to give it a future, to consolidate the national scientific system into the rights of its workers, who are here today and we also greet. Mr. Porfirio Silva said that it is time to make a balance sheet. So let's make that balance sheet. The Minister had in his hands all the legal instruments necessary to end the precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u98	The result is in sight!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u99	contrary to what Mrs Ana Rita Bessa said, this parliamentary majority has never been an obstacle to this challenge of combating precariousness, in fact, it has given Mr Minister, even through parliamentary assessments that made them leave here stronger laws to combat precariousness and through the law of PREVPAP, all the conditions to end precariousness in science and higher education. Mr Minister uses these instruments as scapegoats— «it is not to PREVPAP that should be integrated, it is to the law of encouragement to scientific employment; it is not to the law of encouragement to scientific employment; it is to the status; it is not to the status, it is to anything that will come in 2023» — when the challenge is for now, when the instruments are in force now and the obligation is to resolve now. As has already been said, the Minister has the special careers included in PREVPAP, also under pressure from the Left Block. What happened? Integration: zero! Real combat precariousness through this legal instrument: zero! Nothing happened! According to the transitional standard of Law No 57 / 2017 — which, as has already been said, has come out of here stronger — the FCT pays for the integration of postdoc pockets. What happened? Tendentially, zero! We have 1930 pockets identified and 70 open contracts. What happened to the others? Why is it that, in view of this rule, which should be implemented and which has as its limit to its implementation in August, there are only a few more than 70 open contracts? Why did nothing happen? Why is the balance sheet tending to be zero? They also saw their contract extended or renewed, because they were entitled to this, they had the right to receive the monthly payments of the months they had not received. And there is one thing that has never been understood in Portugal: it is that these fellows also have children, they also eat, they also have to pay their rents and, therefore, they cannot spend months without receiving. Why does the FCT abuse the law, abuse the interpretation of the law to keep these messages behind schedule? Oh, my God! But in this challenge of regaining or refounding the rights of workers, the national scientific and technological system, the Minister had an advantage: a parliamentary majority would give him all the instruments. But it had also, as we have seen and concluded today, two obstacles: on the one hand, the obstacle to the lack of public investment—and there we already know that it is necessary to confront Minister Centeno and his obsession with the deficit, we already know that this fight is necessary, and the Left Block here will be to do so again in the next State budget, to fight for the public investment necessary for the scientific system and for higher education—and on the other hand, it had the obstacle of the small powers installed and powered by the principals, who want to keep the scientific system in precaution so that the integration of these pockets and teachers does not call into question the small powers they have created. And, in this question, it remains to be answered: why did the Minister not have the political courage, as at other times, Mariano Gago, to face these powers installed to put in his curriculum, in the curriculum of this mandate, this legislature, the definitive fight against precariousness in higher education and science? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u100	Once again, the Bureau does not record entries for requests for clarification to Mrs Joana Mortágua, so you have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr Álvaro Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is proof of left-wing incapacity. The PSD has long been alerting us to the incompetence of this government without direction, where no one wants to blame for the failures. The left ones, who once complained about the lack of funding for higher education today, who are government, give less money to universities and politicians and whisper to the side with the difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u103	If there is underfunding in higher education, and he exists today, the blame lies with those who approved the last budgets. The blame is for PS, PCP and Block! [[PSD applause.]] All left-wing talk about the fight against precariousness and sometimes even gives the impression that they are concerned. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] The problem is that when we look at the results of this government, what we see is the danger to increase. With the left, we have more contracts in the long run — many thousands — and the fact is that this government has not yet integrated a single weakness in higher education. A single one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u105	The left ones promise everyone, with interest, if necessary, but they don't do it, they're late. In February 2017, when he included the pockets and researchers in the report on precariousness, the government promised them a stable employment bond. He didn't do it! The government then promised to stimulate scientific employment and even approved a doctoral recruitment regime. He didn't do it! It was so late that, in order not to be dismissed, researchers hired during the time of the troika had to be the PSD to take the initiative to extend the contracts to them. Worse, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's really hard! Since the left ones rule that they are speaking precariously. The programme for the regularization of precariouss was approved, the PREVPAP, but so far the government has done nothing more than draw. Why? The budget approved by the left has no money to integrate the precariouss. Since the majority of these workers paid by Community funds were to be integrated, the left had to strengthen the budget. As the people say, 'this is where the pig twists its tail', because the money from the State budget, approved by the left-wings, is not enough, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Government has signed a legislative contract, promising to strengthen funding to higher education institutions, but as soon as the money was missing, it did not pay. When left-wings promise what they know they can't give, they seriously disrespect universities, polytechnics, pockets and precarious researchers. When the left ones are left to speak, they can do so for irresponsibility, for incompetence or for anything else, but in the end, the attitudes with which they take them remain the incompetence of the left ones to rule. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u106	Mr Álvaro Batista, the Bureau registered two Mrs for requests for clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. Do you intend to answer individually or together, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u107	I shall answer together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u108	So you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Luís Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u109	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Batista, has now been speaking here for five months now, in this House, to discuss the programme for the regularization of precariouss in public administration. On this issue, the position it took was that PREVPAP serves to regularize bonds of the new left-wingers who took power in the Public Administration. Keep that position...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u110	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u111	... or, now, do you claim PREVPAP?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u112	I'll explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u113	It is because we do not understand the PSD position: it votes against PREVPAP, but it wants it to be applied; it says it serves to integrate left-wingers into the Public Administration, but, indeed, now it speaks on behalf of the pockets. It would be important to address the fellows who are present at this session and tell them: "Yes, we voted against PREVPAP, because this programme serves to integrate left-wings into the Public Administration." Mr Deputy, in view of your intervention, was pleased to know what the position of the PSD is now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u114	Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u115	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u116	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Batista, said that no precariousness has been included in higher education. The honourable Member must miss the meetings of the Parliamentary Commission because he did not hear the information of the Coordinator Council of the Political Higher Institutes ( CCISP ), which he told the Commission that they were covered by the so-called 'transitional system of political education' over 700 teachers. In addition, the honourable Member does not read the information either, because otherwise he would know that only by the end of last year have passed to the career of about 400 polytechnic teachers who were precarious. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member, as usual, is not informed and misses the truth! If you are so interested in combating precariousness, I ask you: why did the PSD Parliamentary Group, when we went for months to discuss the degree of scientific employment, not submitted a single amendment? Oh, my God! A single amendment proposal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, Mr President, the results of the competition for institutional support for scientific employment have recently emerged, in which the institutions are specifically supported, and for the first time, for plans for the development of scientific employment: 400 contracts have been approved in 58 scientific employment plans and more than half of these contracts have no time, so this is about integration into careers. You didn't know about this, you didn't know, or just once again, did you miss the truth? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u117	To reply, Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. First of all, I reply to Mr. Member of the Left Block, saying that PREVPAP fights everything, and fights everything when it considers precarious the workers who were admitted until 3 May 2017, i.e. workers who were admitted as precarious by this government. That is why the PSD is, in other words, to mix true precariousness with false precariousness, those who, with this government, have entered with « cudas ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u119	Tell that to the pockets!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u120	That's what we don't accept! Explain that to the precariouss! [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] Mr Porfirio Silva, of the Socialist Party, does not fight the Portuguese. One thing is normal evolution...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u121	Normal evolution? Oh, my God! This is regularization! Report! He's answering!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u122	... the careers of teachers and something else completely different is to regularize the situation of those who have irregular precarious ties in the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u123	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u124	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u125	Mrs. Members, left-wing problems, left-wing budgets, left-wing responsibility! If it was the left that approved the Budgets, it is your responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u126	Answer me, sir! Assume you've missed the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u127	If they were once deceived, the people understood—at first they all fell. If they were deceived twice, the people understand—at the second drop anyone wants. What no one understands is that the left ones have come to say that they were wrong when they approved the Budgets and even approved the third Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u128	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u129	The people very well classify those who let themselves be deceived for the third time! Ask, the people say! [[PS and BE protests.]] Now, left-wing gentlemen, please tell the Portuguese whether or not they will approve the fourth State budget. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u130	He didn't answer! Downstairs! Zero in evaluation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u131	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u132	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Sub-financing, lack of school social action, lack of democracy in institutions, privatization and foundational regime, precariousness and exploitation — these are five very serious problems affecting higher education and science. These are structural issues for public higher education and also for the national scientific and technical system. If the Government assumes that nothing will be done to intervene on these issues, beyond a few timid and immediate advances, it will assume that it will be, in this case, the main guarantor of the persistence of these same problems. There is a lot to be done and the CFP has proposals. The CFP advocates the increase in the funding of public higher education institutions via the State budget at levels compatible with its mission, which also necessarily requires the amendment of the higher education financing law, on the basis of the proposals we have submitted successively in the Assembly of the Republic and which have also been subsequently rejected by PS, PSD and CDS. The CFP argues that higher education institutions should be provided with funds for the development of their own scientific research policy, without prejudice to the existence of project financing contests. The CFP advocates the abolition of tips and the increase in social support for higher education students, through a new framework law of school social action, since the current framework is extremely limited. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legal regime of higher education institutions, the RJIES, brought with it the marked decrease in the internal democracy of higher education institutions, the increase in the permeability of their administration to private interests, the elimination of plenary bodies, the reduction of representatives of students and non-teachers to symbolic numbers in the college bodies and the introduction of the figure of the public private law foundation. O, then, the PS Government, like the current one, did everything to promote the conversion of public institutions to this new status, claiming that it was not a way of privatization. But it's a way of privatization, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The alienation of heritage, the mercantillization of teaching, and the weakening of working bonds became easier. And, no, this can't be the way! The CFP advocates the change in the legal regime of higher education institutions, increasing internal democracy, reversing the foundational regime and providing higher education institutions with agile and efficient means of management. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current government has assumed — and here has taken on — the commitment to ending precarious contracts and precarious contracts throughout the Public Administration. At the point where we are, we are far, far from that end. The fact that the programme for regulating precarious links and Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 on scientific employment had not in fact been implemented in higher education and science, with the precious aid, is true of the institutions, reveals that the government is not fully solving these situations. The CFP requires that the link regulation program be used to solve precarious problems in public higher education, including, in terms of laboratory technicians, senior technicians, teachers and researchers. The CFP defends the progressive end of the stock exchanges and their immediate transition under Law No 57 / 2017 to employment contracts. It is necessary to end the exploitation of highly qualified labour at balance price under the Statute of the Research Stock Exchange. It is necessary that the Statute of the Research Fellowship be repealed and that a permanent job corresponds to a permanent and non-precious contractual bond. It is necessary to defend careers by combating foreign ideas that aim to annihilate, in particular, the career of scientific research. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The struggle of students and workers in higher education and science will certainly be the engine of the transformation needed in this area. The PCP here will be, as always, by your side. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u133	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a debate of those who do not recognize the current scientific advances and it is a debate of those who want more. Yes, we all want, but in time, as Alexandre Quintanilla said, not to question the rigour of the procedures, which, of course, must always be present.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u135	Blah-blah-blah-blah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u136	But this is also a debate of those who want to clear the backs of the last government. Do you remember that phrase by Sobrinho Simões, which said "we are witnessing a creative destruction of science"? They don't remember anymore. Do you remember brain drain? Do you remember the lack of confidence among scientists in the policies of the previous government? They don't remember anymore. But instead of valuing what you are doing, Mr Minister — which is a lot and we would like to welcome you, for this reason, by betting on a strategy of great courage, of great vision of the future — you are valuing what is not yet done and we all want to do it. It is therefore urgent to say, at this end of the debate, that today the strategic vision of Mariano Gago has been restored. A new vision for science is under way, with programs such as Estimulum to the Scientific Job or Open Science, to which everyone and everyone has access. The delays of the last government in a single way, with unpublished competitions, are being recovered. — for the first time in Portugal, for scientific recruitment, with the aim of the false scholarships, Mr President. Members of the Left Block and the PCP, with the beginning of collective bargaining, with the rejuvenation of the scientific community, the strengthening of careers, social and territorial cohesion, the enhancement of the politics. All this is being done! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would also like to stress this unprecedented measure, because it is exemplary yesterday in the Resolution of the Council of Ministers, entitled "More Science, Less Bureaucracy". Yes, Minister, this is very important! They may not recognize its importance, but it is absolutely extraordinary for advances in science, bringing more transparency, which was not in the previous governance, more simplification, which was not in the previous governance; bringing an exemption from the public procurement code in R & D (research and development) to the European threshold, fulfilling the competitiveness directive. What did we have? A law of commitments, which blocked any process at this level. You don't think so much? Yeah, it's not. Do we want more? Yes! We all want more. It has never been done so far by science, as it has been done by this government. Therefore, at this end of the debate, I want to say, Minister, that this is the right way. It is a path that is not finished, but it is a path from which we cannot escape, for the sake of Portugal, for the sake of science, for the convergences we still have with the European Community, investing in programmes such as GoPortugal, in programmes such as Interaction with the Atlantic, in programmes such as Collaborative Laboratories. This is the way and not the way of exclusion of the people of science, as the former government had done. Open science, democratization of knowledge for all, so that, consciously, we can make the choices, not only at the level of science, but of everything the country needs, with men and women who are informed. Many congratulations, Minister! I want, once again, to greet you for the strategy that is under way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u137	There are no requests for clarification, nor would the honourable Member have time to answer. For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u138	Mr President, Minister : On Tuesday, the Minister came to this Parliament, the request of the PSD Parliamentary Group, due to the unusual situation in which he placed himself, by signing a protest manifest against government policy, together with more than 5000 unhappy subscribers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u139	That's the big problem of science!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u140	At the heart of the criticisms and questions you have asked yourself, according to the other subscribers, there is an urgent need to ensure predictability of funding — yesterday there was a partial approval that would answer this — transparency in the evaluation, as well as to value and respect the merit and autonomy of institutions and individuals. Also this week, the Rector of the University of Porto, in his address of possession, accuses the government of conditioning universities with the constant lack of money and specifically points out the finger to the government, saying, and I quote, « financial uncertainty becomes embarrassing, and is even indecent, when it comes to allocating money to compensate for the implementation of the measures decided by the government itself ». Of course, Mr Minister today takes advantage to appear in the newspapers and say that the country is putting more money in the sector, but when they ask him where is the money for everything he is approving, what he does not say is that the government is not putting more money, he is making more commitments than those that the agents have to finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u142	That is certainly why the teachers—and I refer, for example, to the case of the University of Évora— also this week received information from the Rectora, saying that the value of the budget, at that University, for 2018, is, in absolute value, lower than that of 2017, with reinforcements. That is to say, they have received information that in 2018 no reinforcement has yet been made to pay for the commitments made by the Government this year—we are talking about aggregates, increases in minimum wages, food allowances—and that, in relation to remuneration progressions, the reinforcement announced by the Minister is, for all institutions, universities and politics, much less than the values calculated for each institution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u143	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u144	The Minister knows that the distributed value will be in the order of 6 million, 7 million, and that the expected value, according to the estimates, will be in the order of 18 million, 19 million. Mr President, it is true that at the moment in the year 2020, and the question to be asked will be whether the institutions will support the differential, the values will be tripled. And already in the initial year, the government cannot respond to the first with a reinforcement. Mr Minister, during this debate, it was also clear to the fellows that the post-docs ( post-docs) are also known to researchers, teachers, employees and institutions, that the climate in science and higher education is uncertainty and discontent. In particular, it concerns the uncertainty and unforeseeable implementation of government policies in relation to scientific employment, the PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regulatory Programme of the Precarious Links in Public Administration ), research projects, careers, etc. etc. There is a general idea in society that the government promises, but do not make sure that the promises can be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u145	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u146	The Government does not create the necessary mechanisms, either in regulatory terms or in financial terms, for this to happen. It's all promises! No one is prepared, in particular, for higher education institutions, to internalize in the budgets, increasingly reduced, the flags that the government does not pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u148	The government does not create the conditions for the institutions to comply with the law, but instead of taking responsibility for it, it passes the burden on the institutions through the Budget, forcing the institutions to overburden budgets without appropriations; of scientific employment, requiring them to open competitions without cabbage... Mr. Luís Monteiro, only those who did not have responsibilities in executive terms are that you can say that you can open a contest without having budget allocation! [[All right!]] [[Protests by members of BE Luís Monteiro and Joana Mortágua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u149	And higher education institutions have no budgetary allocation. The budget exists only in the words of the Minister in the FCT budget. I repeat what I was saying, the government is going to pass the burden on the institutions also through repositioning, assuming that they pay what is not transferred and what some do not have. There is a demagogic legislative cosmetic. And the most impressive example of this cosmetic, Mr Minister, is the approval by the Government, in the Council of Ministers of yesterday, a diploma, that changes the legal regime of degrees and diplomas of higher education, which cannot be fulfilled. In fact, as Mr Minister explained to us in the Commission, the Government approves a diploma whose main amendment does not wish it to be applied and cannot be applied. So if it's not to be applied for what it's for? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u150	I am referring, of course, to the doctorates in politics.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u151	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u152	Madam President, let the honourable Member continue to see if she says anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u153	I shall conclude, Madam President. Are legal diplomas mere propaganda instruments? Master's play by Mr. Minister? It is noted that the Minister does not agree — he said in the Commission that he did not agree with the doctorates in politics — but, as he lacks the courage, he creates a law that he knows, Minister, that cannot be applied. And I said this week in the Commission that I would not make any revision of these regulations in order to allow the implementation of the new Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u154	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u155	I conclude by saying that this is an example of a lack of willingness to reform, to seriously review fundamental issues, such as the question of funding higher education and science and the clarification of the foundational regime. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u156	I believe that the debate on this request to the Government is now completed. Let's move on to the closing period. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u157	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Normally the closures are made from the rostrum, but I, in order to be able to look directly at the Minister — and because it is you we still want to ask questions — will break this parliamentary practice so that the conversation is more direct.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u158	Eyes in the eyes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u159	After hearing him speak, I underline a phrase that Mr. Minister here said, which is today's stoning phrase: "We have no more science, we have less science; we have no more higher education, we have less." With this sentence, we could ask: well, but then the Minister arrived yesterday in the government and is now making a diagnosis? The truth is that there are already two years, seven months and three days of Mr. Minister's term of office. And, on this subject, the great novelty that brought us today, and which came into your bag, is a diploma approved yesterday at the Council of Ministers to combat precariousness in 2023. Mr Minister, 2023 is twice as much as the mandate you have already given here, and it will be at the end of the term of office of a next government, not of this, not even of the next one, but already of the third government! It doesn't make sense, Minister, it doesn't make sense! The basic problem is that we are missing legislative instruments to prevent the fight against precariousness in science, when in practice they are not lacking. The Minister has already, in order to be able to use them, enough to want them, both PREVPAP and the law on research in science. On this matter, what Mr Minister has brought us was a hand full of nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u160	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u161	Questioned directly about the situation at the Technical Higher Institute and how illegally it is pressuring researchers to lie, I repeat, to lie in contracts that they have to take with an intermediary, which is a private association, so that the law is not complied with in your case, Mr. Minister shot at the corner. Nothing said, he played defense!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u162	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u163	He just said he had talked to both the institution and the researchers. And what did you tell them, Minister? I told the investigators not to sign because it was illegal what the institution was doing to them? I told the institution not to do so, because it was illegal and it was against the spirit of the law, because it was against what the government wanted to do to combat precariousness? Did you say that? You now have 6 minutes, at this closing stage, to answer this question directly, and I think it's fundamental. About the teachers and how they are being treated in the context of PREVPAP, we are told in percentages. Mr Minister, I'm from Mathematics and I know that the best way we have to hammer numbers is to talk about percentages, but I'm going to talk about absolute numbers, because that's easier for those who listen to us, to have realisations of the information that Mr Minister has given. There are 1500 applications from teachers who believe that their situation should be framed in the regularization provided for in PREVPAP. A thousand and five hundred! of these, already after all the deadlines which the Government itself has defined, there are 63 approved and, of these, only 8 teachers have a schedule of less than 80 % of the planned hours of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u164	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u165	These are the numbers, Minister! Therefore, speaking by 85 % or 15 %, shame is this: of the 1500 applications, only 63 approvals and only 8 contravene the rule that you say does not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u166	Eight!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u167	In practice, it seems that the rule exists and that it is even worse than the interpretation we have given it. It exists to exclude all those who own institutions cause to give educational periods of reduced hourly load, so that they do not fall within the law. In addition, only 63 of the 1500 were approved. Minister, is there any more science? Don't! There is less science, because there is more precariousness in science. But on this point, Mr President, the Minister is giving all the time that university leaders break the laws that Parliament and the Government have approved. It's okay that Mr. Minister is giving, and this is not acceptable. The Minister says to us: 'well, but we now have a law of degrees and diplomas. Mr Minister, let me take this matter back to tell you the following: do not leave for tomorrow what you can and should do today. Two thousand twenty-three is from here to five years — five years! — and we know what can happen. It is that if the law that exists today is not fulfilled, from five years to five, what they will tell us is that there was no capacity in the transitional period to prepare the institutions—and nothing will be done again. Now, Minister, that is what we cannot accept. But this is another subject that, if the President will allow me, I will synthetically tell you, because the Minister has not said so. When the Minister says that we have no higher education but, rather, higher education less, he is saying that we have less funding in higher education, which costs people — students, students — because they do not have the social support they should have or because they are excluded because of the tips, because of fees and emoluments, because of the displacements, because of the cost of residences, finally because of economic criteria. That is why we have less education, because there is a lack of investment in higher education, and one of the gaps in this debate has been on this subject. The Minister did not bring us anything, he did not answer the students who were waiting for an answer, the pocketmen who were waiting for an answer and the country who, when he heard the government say that we have no higher education, we have less higher education, he expected the government to turn from words to acts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u168	The Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think this debate has been an important opportunity to discuss this issue and I cannot fail to thank the Left Block for bringing it here today. I would like to start with the way Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, in a way always so elegant, reminded us of Paul Gauguin and his masterpiece, today exhibited in Boston : where are we? Where do we want to go? They are indeed these two critical issues which must force us to think continually as the Government has done, expressed in its Government Programme and now implemented. The design is that of knowledge. The evil, where we are, we have to face, recognizing the difficulties and, for that, the government has, on a daily basis, exposed itself to a continuous struggle for more science, more scientific employment; more science, less bureaucracy. Where we are going is the way of convergence with Europe, it is the way of Portugal with more Europe, it is for a Europe with more Portugal, certainly with more research and development. However, there were two particularly critical interventions in order to be able to answer the questions as eloquently as Alexander Quintanilla left here: on the one hand, the intervention of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, who spoke in the evaluation or self-assessment, and on the other, the intervention of Mrs Joana Mortagua, who spoke in lack of political courage. Let me touch these questions. As for the evaluation, it's not me doing it, it's the Portuguese who do it. And the 2017 data from the Scientific Potential Survey are part of this response, as they were already in 2016. In 2017, we increased public and private research and development expenditure by more than 175 million, when we had already had an increase of about 140 million in 2016. The data are here, Mrs Margarida Mano, the data are these: public and private investment has increased and continues to increase in Portugal, and that must be the assessment that the Portuguese make. The number of researchers increased for the first time in 2016 and in 2017 we have more researchers to work in Portugal. Political courage? We have opened more FCT competitions in the last two years than in four years during the period 2012 to 2015. In 2016, 7 contests were opened, in 2017 10 contests were opened and this year we have already opened 8 contests. In the period 2012 to 2015, a total of four years had been opened 17 contests. In 2014 and 2015, between 800 and 890 doctoral scholarships were awarded in Portugal and we doubled this value. This year we have already awarded 1600 new doctoral scholarships. Indeed, this is the process of change: breaking with the past and converging with Europe! Mrs Mortagua asked me very well about the conditions of political courage and the process of change. It is really on this stage of parliamentary democracy that we have to face the change we are making. While, as I said well, the scientific growth process in Portugal, especially by 2010, was done based on the volume, the volume of the number of researchers, which, as you know, in three decades was multiplied by five, what we are doing today in the new process of European convergence is not only increasing the volume, with the numbers I have already said, but also increasing the intensity of funding, through the conditions of scientific employment. Therefore, political courage was to change the direction and to devote a policy of stimulus to scientific employment, along with a programme of regularization of public administration bonds. The difficulties we knew that we would have and the political courage was precisely to face these difficulties without creating ruptures in Portuguese society and, on the contrary, facing dialogue, when necessary working with the unions and voting in favour or against their own headquarters and regularizing the debates, which have to be normal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We work with everyone and therefore we have done a work to promote scientific activism, repeat, scientific activism. The manifesto that was published is conservative. We have done much more than what is in the manifesto, but above all we want to dignify the scientific condition, the condition of researchers and therefore we need more scientific activism to do more and better. The Portuguese deserve more science, they deserve less bureaucracy, they deserve more scientific employment, and that is the way that Mr Alexandre Quintanilla here has shown us so well, that it is to do more for the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u170	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the appeal to the Government No 21 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), required by the Left Block. In the second point, without time allocated, there is draft resolution No 1721 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the report of the Government of Portugal in the European Union — 2017 ( Committee on European Affairs), which will be voted on at the time of the vote. We shall therefore proceed to the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system and, meanwhile, Secretary Pedro Alves will report on the entry of the dossier. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u171	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted the following legislative initiatives: draft resolutions Nos 1745 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government programme retraining works at Joaquim High School in Araújo, Penafiel ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1746 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide all the necessary financial resources for the urgent implementation of all the necessary works at the Basic and Secondary School of Rebordosa, Paredes, so that they are completed until the beginning of the new academic year ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1747 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures for access to nutritional supplements for specific medicinal purposes by patients in need of enteric or parenteral nutrition ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; and draft law No 933 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Reduces the VAT rate applicable to pet food products for the intermediate rate ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u172	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are in a position to register ourselves electronically, which is not my case, because my password is wrong and I don't understand why. Let us then examine the quorum. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 202 presences. I wonder who couldn't sign up, besides myself. [[Pause.]] All of you. Members were able to sign up. Great! I'm the only one who couldn't sign up. [[Laughing.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when 203 Members are present, we have a quorum to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u173	Mr President, if I may, I would like to ask the Bureau about the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u174	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u175	Mr President, on page 16, the draft resolution No 1546 / XIII ( 3 ) is for discussion. ( a ) submitted by the CFP. Because we were unable to clarify in good time, a similar draft resolution from the Left Block was withdrawn by the Commission when it was already scheduled to be put to the vote. I therefore asked the Bureau for draft resolution No 1546 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the CFP was not subject to a debate but rather to a general vote, because what makes sense is that later in the Commission, if it comes to a common text, as is normal and how it would happen if the two draft resolutions were now voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u176	It seems to me that makes sense, but I would like to hear the opinion of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u177	We agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u178	So that's how it'll be done. Mrs. Members, let us begin by voting No 580/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of the entrepreneur Fernando Guedes, presented by the CDS-PP and PSD, who will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u179	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last June 20, at 87 years of age, Mr Fernando Guedes, President of the Sogrape Group. Fernando Guedes entered the family business at the age of 22 as a tanoo apprentice, having since the 1970s led a worthy job of construction and modernization of the company, whose presidency was to take office in 1987. A visionary entrepreneur who created the foundations of the main Portuguese multinationals, based in Vila Nova de Gaia, has always accompanied the company and its workers, even after delivering to the third generation its executive management. The historic leader of Sogrape attended Lisbon School of Economics and studied Enology in France and was decorated by the President of the Republic in 2017 with the Grand Cruz of the Order of Children D. Henrique. Fernando Guedes leaves the country an example of entrepreneurship, economic growth with social responsibility, valuing dialogue in working relationships and ethical values that deserve the tribute of colleagues, friends and workers. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its public regret at the death of Fernando Guedes and conveys his sincere condolences to his family, friends and collaborators. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u180	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 581/ XIII ( 3 ) shall be taken: ( a ) — Despite the death of António Eduardo Andrade de Sousa Pereira, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS Members and by a PSD Member, who will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic became aware of the death of former Member Antonio Eduardo Andrade de Sousa Pereira, a victim of prolonged disease. António Eduardo Andrade de Sousa Pereira was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic during the Fourth Parliament. Elected on the lists of the Democratic Renewal Party by the electoral circle of Porto, Eduardo de Sousa Pereira served as Secretary of the Bureau and was associated with a set of legislative initiatives related to higher education, science and the environment. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express their deepest regret at their disappearance to the family and friends of Antonio Eduardo Andrade de Sousa Pereira. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u182	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 583/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Maria Fernanda Vieira da Bernarda, presented by the President of the HR and signed by PS Members and by a PSD Member, who will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with great regret that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of Maria Fernanda Vieira da Bernarda. Fernanda da Bernarda, born in Alcobaça in 1944, distinguished himself as a student leader in Coimbra. It was one of the faces of the 1969 academic crisis, shading in full equality with leaders such as Alberto Martins and Celso Cruzeiro in opposition to the dictatorship. This civic courage was worth the suspension of all activities related to the university, decreed by then Minister José Hermano Saraiva. Alongside the struggle for freedom and equality between men and women, it was in fact another of the causes that Fernanda of Bernarda embraced and represented. in a time when the university was still a markedly masculine universe, Fernanda da Bernarda founded, in 1965, one of the first republics of female students in Coimbra, Araras. And together with Fatima Saraiva, she was one of the two women elected to the General Directorate of the Academic Association of Coimbra in 1968. Calm, serene, weighted, Fernanda da Bernarda was always an unbreakable determination and this made her an iconic figure of this crucial phase of the student movement and of the fight against dictatorship. He was a member of the Portuguese Communist Party and was later in the founding of the Socialist Left Movement. It also belonged to the Humanity Store of the Joint International Masonic Order Le Droit Humain. As a lawyer, Fernanda da Bernarda stood out in defense of workers and their representatives and was distinguished by the President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio and the Great Cross of the Order of Freedom. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic thus pay tribute to the memory of Maria Fernanda Vieira da Bernarda and transmit to their family, friends and companions of struggle the most sympathy for their disappearance. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u184	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the regret that we have just voted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Let us turn to vote No 582/ XIII ( 3. a ) — Praised by the appointment of Father José Tolentino Mendonça to Archivist of the Vatican Secret Archive and to the Library of the Holy See, presented by PSD, CDS-PP and PS, which will be read by Secretary Pedro Alves. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Pope Francis appointed, last day 26, Father José Tolentino Mendonça to Archivist of the Secret Archive of the Vatican and Library of the Holy See. José Tolentino Mendonça, Vice-Rector of the Portuguese Catholic University and Director of the respective Faculty of Theology, was still raised to Archbishop. The 52-year-old priest and poet is now protecting the oldest library in the world, a recognition for his unique course in the cultural, intellectual and religious realm. One of the most prominent Portuguese theologians with international projection, his vast theological work has been guided by the intersection between Christianity and culture. In the area of the Letters, it has been distinguished with various awards for its poetic and essayical work, highlighting its sensitivity and sense of literary aesthetics. Through its academic, cultural and religious activity, it has encouraged renewed plural dialogue with society. The Assembly of the Republic, assembled in plenary, praises the appointment of Father José Tolentino Mendonça to Archbishop Archivist of the Vatican Secret Archive and to the Library of the Holy See, an act that magnifys the name of Portugal, the Portuguese Catholic Church and the Portuguese Letters. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, PS and CDS-PP and abstains from BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 4 PS Members (Catarina Marcelino, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos and Wanda Guimarães).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u186	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u187	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u188	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote on the vote we have just adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u189	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1739 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Cape Verde ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1721 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the report of the Government of Portugal in the European Union — 2017 ( Committee on European Affairs ). [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP and PAN PS and votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens were voted in favour of the PS.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1503 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the environmental, socio-economic and demographic monitoring of areas subject to intensification of agricultural production, in particular by intensive olives ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from PS and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1559 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop an analysis of the impact of intensive olives on natural resources, ecosystems and public health ( NAP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from PS and the CDS-PP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1665 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government resolve the problems arising from intensive and superintensive monocultures ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 1571/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a )...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u190	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u191	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u192	Mr President, in order to make an appeal to the Bureau, in order to vote together on the four legislative initiatives that follow in the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u193	We shall therefore vote jointly, in general, on draft resolutions Nos 1571 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake rehabilitation works at the Basic School 2 / 3 Frei Caetano Brandão, in Braga ( CDS-PP ), 1576/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent Requalification of the Basic School 2 / 3 Frei Caetano Brandão ( PCP ), 1626 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Basic School 2 / 3 Friar Caetano Brandão de Braga ( The Greens) and 1682 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Requalification of the Basic School 2 / 3 Frei Caetano Brandão, in Braga ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 7 PS (Hugo Pires, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares, Maria Augusta Santos, Nuno Sá, Palmira Maciel and Sonia Fertuzinhos) and the PS abstention.]] These draft resolutions are down to 8. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1562 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a )...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u194	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u195	To what effect, Mr. Deputies? Is it to help the table?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u196	Mr President, it is to inform us that we can also vote together on the next four legislative initiatives in the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u197	We therefore vote in general, together, the draft resolutions 1562 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a plan for the rehabilitation of the Second School of Father Benjamim Salgado, in the Vila de Joane ( CDS-PP ), 1563/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Second School Father Benjamim Salgado, in the Vila de Joane ( PSD ), 1575 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the secondary school Father Benjamim Salgado ( PCP ) and 1622 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Urgent rehabilitation of the High School Father Benjamim Salgado, Vila Nova de Famalíão ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 7 PS (Hugo Pires, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares, Maria Augusta Santos, Nuno Sá, Palmira Maciel and Sonia Fertuzinhos) and the PS abstention.]] These draft resolutions are down to 8. These votes remind me of the previous votes of the PIDDAC ( Central Administration Investment and Development Programme ). Someone has already raised this issue at a meeting of presidents, so we will have to talk about it a little further ahead at the Conference of Leaders. We now vote, in general, together, on draft resolutions Nos 1561 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent rehabilitation of the Secondary School of Barcelinhos and remove all fibrosis plates ( CDS-PP ), 1578 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and urgent execution of works at the Barcelinhos Secondary School ( PCP ) and 1625 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Barcelos High School — Barcelos ( The Greens). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 7 PS (Hugo Pires, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares, Maria Augusta Santos, Nuno Sá, Palmira Maciel, Sonia Fertuzinhos) and the PS abstention were approved.]] These draft resolutions are also down to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u198	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u199	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u200	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present explanations of vote related to the draft resolutions relating to the Basic School 2 / 3 Frei Caetano Brandão, the Second School Father Benjamim Salgado and the Secondary School of Barcelinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u201	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now vote on draft resolution No 1456/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to support families of Portuguese citizens who have died abroad for the purpose of moving to national territory ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We proceeded to the general vote on draft resolution No 1457/ XIII ( 3 ). a ) — It proposes free access to the electronic platform Virtual School for Portuguese Education in Foreign ( EPE) ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We generally vote for draft resolution No 1460 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to enhance the exercise of the functions of Portuguese Education in Foreigners ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the Member of the CDS-PP Ilda Araújo Novo.]] We also vote in general on draft resolution No 1301/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Exceptional measures to resolve the situation of non-compliance of residents in the social neighbourhoods owned by the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We generally voted for draft resolution No 1676 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — It creates measures that enable the fair regularization of situations of non-compliance to which the residents of the social neighbourhoods ( BE) were forced. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1659 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Study of air quality, epidemiological study and measures mitigating to recurrent pollution caused by the olive slurry factory in Fortes, Ferreira do Alentejo ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We now vote, in general, together, on draft resolutions Nos 1675 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government promote urgent measures to put an end to the environmental and public health problem in Fortes, Ferreira do Alentejo, as a result of the extraction of olive oil, returning to the population the deserving quality of life ( PSD ), 1691 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to improve the quality of life of the population of Fortes, in the county of Ferreira do Alentejo, eliminating pollution caused by the oil slurry extraction company ( PCP ), 1711 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to solve environmental problems related to the processing of olive slurry ( CDS-PP ) and 1717 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Elimination of pollution caused by the extraction company of olive oil in the town of Fortes, Ferreira do Alentejo ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolutions are down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u202	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u203	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u204	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last five draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u205	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 619 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 55 / 2013 of 17 April approving the organization of the Foundation for Science and Technology, IP ( PSD ) ( the text was replaced by the author in the Committee on Education and Science ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 620 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amended by Decree-Law No 448 / 79 of 13 November approving the Statute of the University Teacher Career ( PSD ) ( the text was replaced by the author in the Committee on Education and Science ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, with votes against the PSD and with abstentions from the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 621 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 185 / 81 of 1 July approving the Statute of the College of Political Higher Education ( PSD ) ( the text was replaced by the author in the Committee on Education and Science ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, with votes against the PSD and with abstentions from the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u206	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u207	Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u208	Mr President, it is to announce that on the voting of draft lein.o 620 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and 621 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) I shall make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u209	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote jointly on draft resolutions Nos 1069 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of the employment of doctors in society ( PSD ), 1070 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the promotion of an intellectual property policy to encourage investment and innovation ( PSD ) and 1071 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of technology transfer between universities and political institutes and society ( PSD ) ( the texts were replaced by the author within the Committee on Education and Science ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions against the PAN and the Member of the PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u210	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u211	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u212	Mr President, it is to be announced that, on the last six votes — three bills and three draft resolutions — the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u213	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira ( PS ). Mr President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u214	Please, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira ( PS ). — Mr President, it is to announce that, on the vote on these last three draft resolutions, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u215	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we are voting in general on draft resolution No 1638/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — For the accelerated construction of the central hospital of the Algarve ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] This draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1698 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the necessary actions for the construction of the central hospital in Algarve ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and with abstentions from PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] This draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We proceeded to the general vote on draft resolution No 1709/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit a timetable for the construction of the new central hospital in Algarve ( PS ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PS and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u216	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u217	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u218	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u219	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u220	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u221	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u222	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u223	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u224	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u225	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u226	Mr President, it is to be announced that, on this last vote, the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u227	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we are voting in general on draft resolution No 1725 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Improving public hospital care in the Algarve ( PCP ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 4 PS (Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira and Luís Graça) and the PS abstention.]] This draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We proceeded to the general vote on draft resolution No 1655/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — For the rapid construction of the new hospital in Lagos ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and 4 PS (Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira and Luís Graça) and abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] This draft resolution also goes down to 9. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1726 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for the construction of the new hospital in Lagos ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and 4 PS (Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira and Luís Graça) and abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] We proceeded to the general vote on draft resolution No 1580/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to strengthen means and intervention in the Matos and Bissaya Barreto Motherhoods ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] This draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1627 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to strengthen the professional and physical qualification and equipment framework of the Daniel de Matos and Bissaya Barreto Maternities in Coimbra ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Green OS and PAN and the PS abstention.]] This draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u228	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u229	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u230	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on the last two draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u231	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1713 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government speed up the recruitment processes of health professionals for the National Health Service ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] According to the consensus recently established between the Left Block and the PCP, we will generally vote on draft resolution No 1546 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary recruitment and placement of inspectors in the area of Education and Science ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] This draft resolution goes down to 8. We turn to the joint vote, in general, of draft resolutions Nos 1574 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and urgent realization of works in schools of the Group of the Schools of Santos Simões, Guimarães ( PCP ), 1612 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of the Basic and Secondary School of Santos Simões in Guimarães ( BE ), 1712 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Requalification of the Basic and Secondary School Santos Simões in Guimarães ( PSD ), 1722 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation in schools of the School Group of Santos Simões, Guimarães ( The Greens) and 1732 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government rehabilitate and requalify the Basic and Secondary School of Santos Simões in Guimarães ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were adopted.]] These five draft resolutions are down to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u232	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u233	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u234	Mr President, it is to announce to the House that I shall, on my behalf and on behalf of the Members of the Socialist Party Group elected by the Braga district, present a statement of vote on the vote on these last five draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u235	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1599 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out an urgent inspection of the hygiene and health conditions of the premises of the High School of Rest and the subsequent completion of the works necessary for its full recovery ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1601 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent re-qualification of School EB 2/3 / Secondary Dr. Bento da Cruz in Montalegre ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from PS, BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u236	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u237	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u238	Mr President, it is to indicate that Mr Francisco Rocha and I will present a statement of vote on the last draft resolution, since the work is already under construction.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u239	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u240	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u241	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u242	Mr President, it is to be announced that we will present a statement of vote on draft resolutions Nos 1601, 1599, 1574, 1612, 1712, 1722 and 1732 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u243	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1679 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a special career of nature watchers ( NAPs ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We proceeded to the general vote on draft resolution No 1707/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the recruitment of nature vigilantes and career appreciation, ending the existing definition of their future ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The general vote on Bill No 121 / XIII ( 3 ) follows. ( a ) — prolongs the validity of certain tax benefits. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u244	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u245	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u246	Mr President, at the end of the voting period, we would like to make an oral statement on the vote on Bill No 121 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). For this purpose, I now include Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u247	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u248	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u249	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u250	Mr President, it is also to announce that Mr Paulo Sá will make an oral statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u251	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now, in general, vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation on Bill No 121 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — prolongs the validity of certain tax benefits. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes carried out in the speciality in the Commission shall be followed. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the proposal for a law No 121 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — prolongs the validity of certain tax benefits. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 736 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the legal-criminal protection of privacy of privacy on the Internet ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The final overall vote of the final text is followed, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, on the projects of lein. 536 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the obligation of information to the consumer in the bill of water on data relating to the quality of water for consumption and the referral of waste for management operations by amending Decree-Law No 114 / 2014 of 21 July ( The Greens) and 605 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — See Annex I to Decree-Law No 114 / 2014 of 21 July 2014 laying down the procedures necessary for the implementation of the detailed billing system provided for in Law No 12 / 2014 of 6 March 2014 which amended the second Decree-Law No 194 / 2009 of 20 August in respect of public water supply, sewage sanitation and urban waste management services ( PAN ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] I shall now give the floor to Mr Secretary to take into account an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u252	Mr. President and Mr. Members, in accordance with the request by the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Local Criminal Court of Santo Tirso — Judge 2, Investigative Case No 483 / 17.0T9STS, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Andreia Neto ( PSD ) to intervene within the framework of the said cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u253	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall then proceed to the announced explanations of vote on the proposal for a law No 121 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). First of all, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In July 2018, i.e. next month there are 15 tax benefits which, if not extended, expire. The evaluation of the Block is that, in general, these benefits should cease to exist, in particular three of them, namely Article 19. the, which, under the false purpose of job creation, grants EUR 40 million per year for benefits in IRC to large companies, and Articles 30. o is 31. the, which exempt from tax income from loans and swaps between national banks and international banks. The bill that the Government submitted to the Assembly of the Republic has kept the vast majority of these tax benefits, although it has introduced this very important change: the tax benefits to the bank only apply when the foreign bank is not located in an offshore. It is a good amendment, we voted in favour of it and it must be raised. I would also like to say that the proposal of the Left Block to eliminate this unjustified benefit to large companies was also approved in the specialty, with votes in favour of the PS and the PCP, and this should be valued. It was an unjustified benefit, which cost money that can now be used for better employment creation and public services policies. The tax benefit law is best suited to the work of the specialty and the government proposal. The question is: why does the Left Block vote against this law, which is better than the previous law? It is that, if this proposal was not approved, what it was worth was not the previous law. If this proposal was not approved, all tax benefits would expire, including tax benefits to the bank. And that was the purpose of the Left Block, that is, that all these tax benefits were expired. That is why the Block votes against the final version of the bill, although in its content we want to admit and make it clear that, in our view, the tax benefit law is better off with the amendments made by both the government and the work of the specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u255	Also for an oral vote on the vote on Bill No 121 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Within the framework of a fiscal policy for the promotion of large capital carried out by successive governments, tax benefits have been used as an additional instrument for reducing taxes to large companies and economic groups. This is a situation that needs to be changed. It was precisely for this purpose to eliminate tax benefits to large companies and economic groups that the CFP intervened in the discussion of the proposed law submitted by the Government. We have identified three tax benefits that favor the great capital and beat us for its revocation. First, the one who benefits job creation by mere compliance with the law and who favours large companies in about 20 million euros such as the Pink Doce, the EDP or the BPI, which has been revoked in the field of discussion in the specialty, with the decisive contribution of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u257	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u258	We have also proposed the repeal of two other tax benefits, aimed at the financial system and capital markets, which represent a tax expenditure of many tens of millions of euros. Since this proposal for revocation was plunged by the PS, the CFP voted favourably for the rules limiting the scope of these benefits. However, despite this limitation in scope, the reality is that these tax benefits to the financial system and capital markets remain in force, which voted against the CFP in the overall final vote. The CFP cannot follow a proposal for a law which takes the fiscal advantage of large capital. For the CFP, the path must be exactly the other way around: to put an end to this favour by appropriately paying the large capital while at the same time relieving the tax burden on workers, pensioners and pensioners, families and micro and small businesses. It is because of this alternative fiscal policy that the CFP will continue to beat. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-29.u259	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 4 July, having on the agenda a debate, which will, by marking the PSD, be on territorial inequalities and decentralization, to which Bill No. 890 / XIII is associated ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the Independent Commission for Decentralisation ( PS and PSD ). In this context, there is a possibility of voting at the end of the debate at the end of the debate. I wish the Socialist Party the greatest happiness for their Alentejo parliamentary days. Good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 15 minutes.]]
