ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gallery doors to the public. the first item is the 15th annual debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, which, as you know, begins with the question stage of parliamentary groups. Before that, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the Proposal for Law No 170 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the permitted use of works for the benefit of blind persons by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 1564 and describes the unauthorized public execution of commercially edited phonograms and videograms, which falls to 1. the Commission, Draft Law No 1047 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Alter the Criminal Code, including the crime of rape, adapting the legislation to the Istanbul Convention ratified by Portugal, which falls to 1. the Commission and draft resolution No 1882 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Brasília. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted to Parliamentary Assessments No 83 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 98 / 2018 of 27 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to municipal bodies in the field of the authorisation to exploit the related modalities of gambling or gambling and other forms of play, No 84 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 99 / 2018 of 28 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to inter-municipal entities in the field of tourism promotion, No 85 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 100 / 2018 of 28 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of communication, paragraph 86 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 101 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to municipal bodies and to intermunicipal entities in the field of justice, No 87 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 102 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to the bodies of the inter-municipal entities in the field of projects financed by European funds and investment capture programmes, No 88 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 105 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal housing bodies ; and No 89 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 106 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of the management of public real estate without use. Finally, we also have a report and an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which refers to suspension and replacement in accordance with Article 5 ( 2 ( a ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the Statute of Deputies of Mrs Cristina Jesus ( PS ), electoral circle of Coimbra, by Isabel Cruz, with effect from 10 December 2018, including without indication of its duration. The opinion is as follows: « The suspension of Mrs Cristina Jesus fulfils the legal requirements, being replaced by Isabel Cruz, from 10 December 2018, including until the term of office resumes ». Mr President, the opinion must now be voted on so that Mrs Isabel Cruz can take up her duties. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the opinion just mentioned. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we turn to the first item on the agenda, which is part of the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. In the order of interventions, the first parliamentary group to ask questions is the CDS-PP. Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, after approving the last State budget and conferring the reality of this year's end with the Government's speech, we can say with property that the Prime Minister is a storyteller. Let's see point-by-point. It is the history of equity and equality, when those who can go to another place and who cannot see surgeries postponed at the SNS (National Health Service), including some oncological and pediatric situations. It is the history of passion for public services, when in reality they have never been so bad, with money announced and systematically captivated, and there is news that daily, but daily, embarrass us, like today's about cops who have to sleep in the car. It is the history of priority for public investment, when, in fact, it did the biggest cut ever in investment. Today, we have a country imprisoned by wires—just to see the chaos on the boat, at the Seixal, this morning.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u6	It's the story of turning the page into austerity, when we have the biggest tax burden ever. It is the history of social peace, when, in fact, we have so many or more strikes today than in the time of the troika and 47 more strike announcements by the end of the year. It is the story of equity and equality, when, in reality, it is creating a more unequal country, with minimum wages higher for public service than for the private sector. It is the history of fiscal neutrality of the additional fuel tax, when, in fact, gas oil and gasoline are today much more expensive to everyone than they were a year ago. It is the history of the proper implementation of the Community funds, when, in fact, the implementation is well below what happened in the same period in the previous Community framework. Mr. Prime Minister, your Government is the Government of maximum taxes and minimum public services. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And his story of the end of austerity is not right with the growing challenge on the streets. If everything's okay, why do so many complain? All of a sudden, will everyone be foolish? from teachers to doctors, from prison guards to nurses, from police to judges, from criminal investigators to transport workers, from diagnostic technicians to firefighters.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u8	What happens, Prime Minister, is that the expectations created by you when you have repeatedly stated — and I repeat again — that you have finished austerity, these expectations are now over. Everyone feels deceived by you, by your government. And why? Mr. Prime Minister, because everyone has promised what, perhaps, he has never thought of fulfilling! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u9	The CDS has denounced all this since the first hour, with a very firm opposition, but today it is particularly clear that its risky strategy of wanting to deceive everyone all the time passed the validity period. Mr. Prime Minister, unlike you, who sees and lives inside a film, a film closed in your country where everything is going well, I am going permanently, and for a long time, in contact with our real country. And this real country asks you to ask some questions, so I would like you to answer me with facts — not with stories or with rounds, but with facts. The first question is this: can we be rested, Prime Minister, with the safety of roads, bridges and railways? The government has or has not mapped all critical cases and is it dealing with them beforehand? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u10	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u11	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, you have never heard anyone from this government say that it's okay, because it's not okay.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u12	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u13	Now, what we don't confuse is the fair expectations of people with the promises we haven't made. We repudiate the salaries, repudiate the pensions, lower the labour tax, the tax burden it refers to, as you know, because there are more people employed and, with more people employed, there are more contributions to social security and, as employment has grown more than GDP (gross domestic product), the tax burden increases. But this doesn't mean people are paying more, they're paying less. Only IRS ( income tax for natural persons ), Portuguese families will pay less than EUR 1000 million this year than they paid in 2015 when you were Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not promise everyone everything, we promise what is contained in our Government Programme and, as Mr Jerónimo de Sousa said last weekend, we have already been in some areas further than the Government Programme. More than a year ago we realized that, after the headquarters of a wait, people want everything, and now! However, we cannot take a step further than the leg in order to make what we can put back irreversible, because we do not want to have a government like yours again, to cut everything that your government has cut. We don't want that again! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is thanks to the measures we have taken today that we have the lowest level of poverty that the country has ever had. Does this mean poverty is over? No, Mrs. Member, there are many people who are still poor, there are many people for whom we must continue to work and take measures to continue to reduce poverty. Now, the way is to move forward and not to go back! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The rate of inequality has never been as low as that of today. What do we have to do now? Tax reversals of VV. Ex. or continue the fiscal justice measures we have adopted? We will have to continue with fiscal justice measures. This is what we have to do! Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we do not tell stories, we present results and, to an extent, the results show that the policies are right, that the results are good and that we must continue to combat poverty, unemployment, the lack of quality of some public services, the lack of responsiveness. That is why we are here and we do not put the papers on reform, because we want to continue working to solve the Portuguese problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u14	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u15	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, and how do you answer the question about whether we can be resting on roads and railways?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u16	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the information we have is that, for all the works that are marked, measures have been taken. For example, the need to maintain the work of the 25th of April. I don't know if you remember that a year ago there was a great agitation about this case. For in January the 25th of April will enter in maintenance works. That's how we try to do it. I believe that this is how all governments and all public bodies responsible for their works seek to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u18	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, we asked the Government precisely about all critical infrastructures to give an opportunity to revise this list and ensure that these issues are dealt with in advance. Mr. Prime Minister, still related to this aspect, I would like to know whether or not the government will compensate the families of the Borba tragedy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u20	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u21	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, as you know, I am at the root of the law of the non-contractual civil liability of the State. As you know, I was the Minister of Justice who, when the bridge of Entre-Rios fell, found a speedy mechanism to respond to this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u22	By the way, it wasn't good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u23	As you know, it was while I was Prime Minister that we found a speedy mechanism to try to respond to the injuries of BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), when others propose to fund their purse, charitablely, in order to be able to resort to justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you know, we assume full responsibility for the victims of the fires of 17 June and 15 October 2017, and we will assume all the responsibilities that the State has to assume. It is on behalf of the State that the Government speaks, but we do not confuse the State with other legal persons of public law, nor subjective responsibility with objective responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u24	Ah! Objective...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u25	No, no, objective responsibility doesn't mean that it happens to be who it isn't. So we wait quietly. There are things we already know. We know that in the time of the previous government, the former Secretary of State for Energy was alerted to the risk situation on that road; we know that he communicated it to the then Director-General; we know that then the Directorate-General was extinct and that the information would not have been passed properly on to those who replaced him — we know — but we also know that the mayor of that municipal road had long known that issue. Sir, you're not shaking your shoulder. I assume all my responsibilities, but to respond to your demagogy, I do not take responsibility that must not be mine. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You know why? For a fundamental reason: when you talk about responsibility, you're not talking about money from Antonio Costa, you're talking about money from the Portuguese taxpayers,... [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u26	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u27	...and that I have to manage with all respect! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u28	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, I also recall that you were Minister of Justice when the Aquaparque case happened, and I also remember that you refused to pay the compensation and that you filed judicial proceedings until you reached the Supreme Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u30	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u31	And because the government has changed and came a minister of the CDS is that this compensation has been paid. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I also recall, Mr Prime Minister, that last year you did not want to pay compensation to the victims of Pedrogan. Only then, when he realized that he had no margin, I repeat, no, to not pay them and after having been called to the breakfast several times is that he came to pay them. Mr. Prime Minister, with the answer he gives us here today, again, what shows is that he has learned nothing in these years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u33	He has learned absolutely nothing and does not understand what the responsibility of the State is. He does not understand the primary responsibility in the area of security and sovereignty. It is this area that you treat badly, treat with contempt, treat with disrespect, and I can assure you that that is what will remain for the history of your government, which, moreover, is seen in the absolute inability to maintain dialogue with various forces in this sector. But, Prime Minister, it's not just in this area. There is another where the government shows particularly serious self-sufficiency and arrogance, which is the area of health. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, if you know how many years it will take you to recover delays in postponed and cancelled surgeries, if you can tell us what is the impact on people's lives in the postponement of an oncological surgery, if you can tell us whether the SNS (National Health Service) is prepared for the particularly difficult time that comes there, which is not only the time of cold, but also that of the parties, besides most of the strikes announced. Are we prepared to give that answer to people or not? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u34	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u35	Mr President, Madam Member, what is established between the Ministry of Health and the hospitals is that, with the data today and without further surgeries cancelled, in the first quarter of next year they will be able to all be reprogrammed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u36	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u37	Mr President, Prime Minister, my question was not to know when they will be rescheduled, but how many years will it take. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u38	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u39	Mr President, Madam Member, they will be able to be reprogrammed and executed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u40	Are they already executed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u41	Mrs. Christian Assumption, you still have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u42	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in the first quarter of next year we will be here to see if this is no longer an example of the « story-counter » Prime Minister, Antonio Costa. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u43	Mr Prime Minister, the last issue, particularly dear to the CDS, which I would like to bring to this debate is that of reconciling work/family as a aspect of promoting birth. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The Government presented a programme with a pump and circumstances and, reading this programme, we found that many measures have already been submitted by the CDS and plunged by the Socialist Party. We are talking about the increase in the exclusive paternity leave for the father, the regulation of telework, the number of daycare breaks and pre-school leave, only to mention 3 of 12 measures, at least, that were plagiarized from the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u44	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u45	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister, it is unfortunately another craftsman of this government, which leads to measures that could have been in force for a long time later to present them with pump and circumstance,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u46	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u47	... recalling festivals of another time, of the time of his predecessor José Socrates, who also announced the « Cheque-babe», of which we are still waiting today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u48	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the conciliation between personal and professional life, you have been associated with that government which has unilaterally increased working time... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and that he decided to help the children, supporting the rich more than the poor, because it was a percentage of his family's maturity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are going to negotiate with the social partners in a peaceful manner our conciliation programme, because it is a challenge of society's collective, and it is a good idea that it is reflected in some of our measures. But, Mrs Deputy, facts are facts : in relation to the implementation of Community funds, we are the first country in payments ; in respect of public services, this government has been restoring, year after year, everything that the previous government has cut, and finally in 2019 we will have answered everything that was cut in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u50	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u51	That's why we have 7000 more teachers, that's why we have 9000 more employees in the National Health Service, and that's how we're going to keep responding, as in the case of public investment. Allow me to conclude, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u52	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u53	I am very pleased that the honourable Member has, after having taken two years to attack the unions for not making strikes, finally, does what she is responsible for: it attacks the government for the fact that the unions are to strike. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u54	To put questions to you, Mr Fernando Negro, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u55	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I welcome you as well as all the members of the Government. Mr. Prime Minister, I will begin with the most worrying area that is currently living in Portugal, which is obviously the health area. I give you a very concrete fact, which is elucidative to the point where things have come. I'm going to speak to you, Prime Minister, Sousa Martins Hospital, in Guarda. According to data from the Directorate-General of Health and also from the website of the National Health Service, in June, a cardiology consultation had an average waiting time of 476 days, i.e., one and a half years. I am sure, Prime Minister, that we both agree that this is deeply wrong. But let's see: five months ago, I repeat, five months, the same cardiology consultation has a waiting time of 1237 days, that is, three years and four months. This is the case of Guarda, as it is unfortunately the case of other hospitals scattered throughout the country. Do you not think, Prime Minister, that it is of the greatest urgency to resolve these situations, or did the PS find that electorally does not bring any advantage to solve this problem? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u56	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u57	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, of course, we cannot have a debate on health based on analyses of a specific case. [[PSD protests.]] We have to do an analysis of the National Health Service in a systemic way. What we know today is that in 2017, with respect to 2016, the average time for priority consultations increased to 83 % and above all, we know that thanks to the reinvestment being made in the increase in the number of professionals there are more 49 000 hospital consultations and more 196 consultations in health centres than at the beginning of the legislature. This is the reality! If you ask me if there is any delay, I answer you that there are delays; if you ask me whether it is enough, I answer you that it is not enough. But, as I say to you, honourable Member, when it is not enough, the way is not to go back, it is to continue to do more and better and to move forward. [[PSD protests.]] That's what we're going to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u58	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u59	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if we were to go back, we would be much better than we are today. [[PSD applause.]] Much better! Mr. Prime Minister, he brought this example, because it is paradigmatic of the situation in which this government is leaving the National Health Service. We are talking about cardiology, we are talking about consultations of an urgent nature, we are talking about consultations that, to mark them, users have to wait three years and four months. Mr. Prime Minister, this example, I had to bring, because it is elucidative of the state in which you are putting the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u61	Mr. Prime Minister, nurses have been on strike since November 22.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u62	Some!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u63	We speak of a strike which is unpublished, because it is continuous, it lasts more than a month, reaches a significant number of operating blocks scattered by the country and, in this regard, the government has little said — even if little or nothing has said. I therefore take this opportunity to ask you a question. I know you have tried to answer, but we do not fully understand your answer, Prime Minister, and I will therefore insist: what are the official numbers of the consequences of nurses' strikes in operating blocks of public hospitals in the country so far? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u64	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u65	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I would say that they are not all nurses, because only a few unions are on strike and others are not. for our part, we do what is our responsibility, which is to negotiate, according to our Program, the careers that we understand should be established for nurses. So we do what we need to do, which is to negotiate. It is not because there is a strike that we have to accept the claim. In the face of a claim, we negotiated. The option for strike or non strike is the union. If I wonder if the strike on scheduled surgeries is an acceptable practice, I must say that I do not consider it acceptable. It's over 5000 surgeries that have already been cancelled. I consider this to be a serious fact, but of course it is not my responsibility to replace the union leaders in their decisions on how they use the right to strike. What we have to do — and which I have just answered — is, in this situation, to organize ourselves to give the best answer. With the data that currently exist, no further cancellations, it is possible in the first quarter of 2019 to perform the surgeries that were now cancelled. This is the goal we have and this is what we work for. We would, of course, like to have an agreement with all the unions so far, so that we can have a decent career for nurses, but without the use of strikes, which are highly harmful to the patients, especially in the scheduled surgeries. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u66	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u67	Mr President, Prime Minister, the numbers I know have by source trade unions and orders. I don't know the official numbers. I asked what were the official numbers, and I insist on the question: does the government have the official numbers? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u68	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u69	Mr President, Mr President, I am glad that you have remembered the extraordinary role of a professional order that resolves to perform trade union functions, as if that would compete with you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, as the Minister of Health has already had an opportunity to say, the number of pending surgeries exceeds 5000. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u70	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u71	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I am not a lawyer of the Medical Order...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u72	From the Order of the Nurses!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u73	I am neither a lawyer nor the Order of the Nurses, nor the Order of the Physicians, nor any other order, but let me tell you, Mr. Prime Minister, that there is an ethical responsibility of the orders regarding the state of health, not on matters of a union nature. Mr Prime Minister, the numbers that exist are, in fact, of an informal nature. Are there no numbers because the government does not want to show the size of the problem? Does the government fear that the Portuguese will know the true extent of the number of patients who are being damaged by the government's incompetence in the National Health Service area? [[PS protests.]] This is the question I want to ask you: how many years will it take the National Health Service to reprogram and realize the thousands of surgeries that have been demarcated? I know you have already responded, but your answer, Prime Minister, was insufficient. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u74	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u75	Mr President, Mr President, according to the figures we have on Friday were 4176, but we assume that in the meantime they have already exceeded 5000 because surgeries that were scheduled have continued to be cancelled. Mr President, with all honesty, I see your enthusiasm, not to say support, for this strike. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] However, on deontological responsibility, I wanted to say that when a caneman — in this case, a caneman — says that with the strike there can be the death of patients, the deontological responsibility can only be one: the operation cannot be postponed, because no one can die because of the exercise of the right to strike. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u76	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u77	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have no enthusiasm for any strike, I confess.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u78	But it seems!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u79	What I have, Prime Minister, in this case are concerns about the health care provided to Portuguese,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u80	... which involves the need and obligation on the part of the Government to negotiate with trade union associations. That is what the government has done little, and how little it has done has done wrong. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u81	The Portuguese need to have a National Health Service that gives them concrete answers. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to draw your attention to this subject and tell the Minister of Health that the problem of the National Health Service must be resolved quickly, to the satisfaction of the interests of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister spoke in order and in unions and we know the concerns of each and every other, despite the strikes. But strikes are a labour issue that needs to be dealt with elsewhere.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u82	Oh, yeah? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u83	Yes! They have to be dealt with at another level and we believe that they must be resolved through the negotiation of the government with the unions and orders. Mr. Prime Minister, the problem is so serious that the Doctors' Board of Governors said, a short time ago: « I cannot guarantee that no patients die because of the strike».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u84	It was the nurse's order batonaria! [[No, it was the Doctors' Order Penitentiary!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u85	Mr. Prime Minister, I appeal to you to start serious negotiations with the nurses' unions. [[PS protests.]] I appeal to you that the ability you have demonstrated to form the government that has formed might be useful in negotiations with the unions,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u86	... because these are much more important than the first ones. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, even with regard to health, can you tell us what are the consequences of the strike of diagnostic and therapeutic technicians? Does the government already have official numbers on the number of patients who have stopped carrying out complementary diagnostic examinations? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u87	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we negotiate, so we negotiate on this council, we agree 100 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u89	And are they successful in any negotiation?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u90	What I ask you is whether, from your point of view, we should accept the demands as presented by the unions, to end the strike immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u91	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u92	Or negotiating means presenting our point of view, listening to the views of others and seeking to approach them? [[PSD protests.]] Sir, what's your recipe? Is it accepting what is required or is it to continue negotiations? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u93	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u94	Mr President, Prime Minister, I take the opportunity to tell you that negotiating is not capitular.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u95	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u96	Negotiating is always being in the middle of the bridge, on the one hand and on the other. That is what the government has not been able to do. The government has been incompetent in negotiations with the unions,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u97	...the government has not been able to take negotiations to good port and avoid what is happening in the National Health Service, which is too serious. Mr. Prime Minister, we know that there are problems not only in health but also in other sectors. I would therefore like to highlight the question of transport and ask you if you know how many Portuguese have been without transport last Friday because of the strike of the CP (trains of Portugal ) for which no minimum services or alternative transport have been decreed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u98	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on health, we understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u100	He didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u101	Mr. Deputy simply spokesperson from Mrs. Bastonária of the Order of Nurses,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from the PSD, having fellows knocked their feet on the floor.]] ... telling the government to do what you are already doing, which is to negotiate, but without answering the fundamental question: should we or should we not accept the proposals presented to us by the unions? As for the substance, Mr... [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, remain calm, but Mr Negrão cannot hear my answer. Mr President, as far as substance is concerned, the only thing I said was that we were doing well and that if we went back, we would be much better. Now, do you know what it would mean to go back, Mr? It would mean saying goodbye to the 9000 professionals we hired, however, for the National Health Service and cutting EUR 1200 million in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I ask the honourable Member if he thinks that if we go back and take away the EUR 1200 million and the 9000 professionals, we improve the National Health Service. That is the question to which you must answer! That's what it means to go back and that's really your program: to dismantle the National Health Service to promote private medicine and hospitals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u102	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u103	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister once again has not answered anything I asked you. Nothing! [[PSD applause.]] [[Nothing!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u104	As you felt bullied, Mr. Prime Minister, you decided to shoot everywhere. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u105	As you felt bullied, Prime Minister, you decided to talk about the past. But, as we know in the previous government, the National Health Service offered a much better response than it did in its government, Mr. Prime Minister. I offered a much better answer! [[PSD applause.]] It may cost you a lot, Prime Minister, but it is with that reality that you have to live. You're destroying the National Health Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u107	...and the Portuguese feel it in the skin every day, when they go to hospitals and health centers. I tell you more, Mr Prime Minister: you have no regard for the trade unions or for the orders of professionals. [[PSD applause.]] You don't care about them, and it's because you don't care about them, Prime Minister, that you don't know and you can't negotiate with the unions. It is because it does not respect them and, as it does not respect them, they do not have it for you either, Mr. Prime Minister. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u108	This is your problem, this is your drama in the National Health Service. Mr. Prime Minister, once again, I end with an appeal: tell your Minister of Health, who is recently in charge, that there are problems to solve and that the Portuguese, every day, ask them to be resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u109	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u110	The situation I referred to in the Guard is exemplary, but there are thousands of such cases throughout the country. Mr. Prime Minister, resolve the problems of the National Health Service! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u111	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u112	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, let us go first to the facts so that we can understand each other quickly. To date, in 2018, there were more 234 000 emergency visits than in 2015, there were more 19 000 surgeries than in 2015, there were more 196 000 hospital consultations than in 2015, there were more 687 000 primary health care consultations than in 2015. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, Mr. Member, with regard to the facts today, the National Health Service is producing more than in 2015, the National Health Service is better than in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly: is the National Health Service what we want? No, the National Health Service is not as we wish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u113	He's terrible!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u114	That is why, Mr President, we have continued to work to improve, as we have done in the last three years. This is how we have improved these three years, that is how we will improve next year and I hope that in the following years we can continue to work to improve and not go back, because going back means less professionals and less investment in the National Health Service. I want to tell you, Mr President, that we are actually responding to the problems. That is why, until the end of the Legislature, we will have more than 100 family health units. That is why, right now, we have hundreds of health centers, or extensions of centers, in works. That's why we're going to launch five new hospitals next year. That is why we continue to hire more professionals for the National Health Service. That is why, for nurses, we rejected the hours of work that unilaterally had been changed to them. That is why we have approximated the conditions of nurses who have individual employment contracts of those who have continued in the public service. That is why we differentiate quality hours and also the remuneration of specialist nurses. That is why we are negotiating with the unions the construction of a career that VV. Ex. They don't.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u115	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u116	However, as you well said, negotiating is not capitular and we do not confuse the resolution of labour issues with the sacred right of every Portuguese and every Portuguese to health, whose benefit should be assured in all circumstances. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u117	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Marcelino, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister today, we began by hearing the CDS say that the Prime Minister tells stories. For what I heard, on the part of the CDS and the PSD, was the history of demagogy and populism, the history of the radicalization of the discourse of those who have no proposals for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u119	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u120	I never thought I'd see such a radical CDS and PSD, accompanying the contest and the unions. I never thought I saw a CDS and a PSD defending trade unions and union struggle. That's what I saw today! [[PSD laughter.]] I would like to tell Mrs Cristas that it was in the time of Minister Mota Soares and his Government that the Social Security Institute issued an internal circular saying that the reconciliation between family life and working life was not a reason for a continuous journey and that it was withdrawn from the cooperation agreements the discount on the monthlyity of the daycare for the second children. Therefore, regarding the reconciliation between work and family, Mrs Deputy, I believe that everything has been said.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u122	Mr. Prime Minister, let's talk about the real country. During this legislature, with the economic growth of the country, more 340 000 net jobs have been created and less than 280 000 unemployed, the lowest value of the last 16 years, below the euro area values.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u123	It's the devil!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u124	It is also true, Mr. Prime Minister — and also telling the story — that, in this legislature, the national minimum wage increased 19 %, the greatest ever increase in a legislature, from €505 to €600 in 2019. This, yes, will make a difference in the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese. We still have the increase in family allowance for children up to 3 years old, with the increase of 35% for single-parent families, the upgrade of disability bonus, the decrease in the value of social passes, which will not exceed 80 € per family. These are measures of the State budget which have, in fact, an impact on the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese. They are concrete measures, objective measures to support Portuguese families — birth and fight poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u126	A decent country, Prime Minister, is a country that combats poverty and inequality, is a country that defends decent work and the quality of work organization, taking into account the well-being of workers and workers. And Programme 3 in Line, which Mrs Assumption Cristas here criticized, has concrete bets for improving the lives of workers and workers: in the centrality of reconciliation in collective bargaining; in strengthening the response in day care centres in metropolitan areas; in the universalization of the pre-school offer; in the increase of family allowance in the first six years of life of children;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u128	... in reducing day care participation from the second child, which the CDS withdrew when it was government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u129	Well remembered! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u130	These measures are fundamental to equality, birth and quality of life for men, women and children. Mr. Prime Minister, your Government has the merit of leading us to the lowest level of poverty and inequality ever. In two years of government, 175 000 Portuguese people left poverty. Only in the last year were more than 100 000, 250 per day, 12 per hour, in which families with children stand out. Mr. Prime Minister, this is the real story of a country, this is the real story that Portuguese and Portuguese know well because they live this reality and know well what it means to receive more money at the end of the month and have a better life. Mr. Prime Minister, because you have heard a lot of noise around Program 3 in Line, I wanted to ask you whether this Programme is to be developed in 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u131	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u132	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Marcelino, as you know, we have defined three fundamental objectives: more growth, better employment and greater equality. this year and last year, for the first time since the beginning of the century, we had more growth than the European average. As regards employment, not only do we have 341 000 new jobs, as we are the second country in the European Union with a higher rate of unemployment, where most of the jobs that have been created are jobs with stability, 87 %, and we are still awaiting the approval in this House of the law that reduces and enables the causes of precariousness to be tackled. On the other hand, we have also been increasing the average family income — 6, 4 % since the beginning of the legislature — in particular the national minimum wage, which will rise to almost 20 % from 1 January 2019. These measures that have been adopted have indeed yielded results. Since last week we have known the INE data on the reduction of inequalities related to 2017. I draw attention to the fact that changes to the IRS steps are not yet in force in 2017, the change in the formula for calculating the minimum of existence, and the increase in the formula for calculating the minimum of existence. Even so, at that time, we could already see that the reduction in the risk of poverty between 2015 and 2017 had already benefited 184,000 families, which came out of the risk of poverty. This reduction was particularly significant with regard to children and young people, which, as you know, we have identified as priority in this legislation, with the set of measures we have taken, in particular, on family allowances and which have allowed the risk of poverty among children and young people to be reduced from 22, 4 % to 18 %. On the other hand, the severe rate of deprivation has improved for around 283 000 people, falling from 9, 6 % to 6, 9 %. Regarding inequalities, we have the best results since the series started in 2003, either for the Gini index, or for when we compare the yields of the 20 % higher to the 20 % lower, and above all in comparison to the 10 % higher than the 10 % lower. Therefore, between 2015 and 2017, the reduction of inequalities has been effective and we are sure that, with the set of measures that have been in force this year, when we meet the 2018 numbers within two years, we will objectively verify that there was also a new improvement. Does this mean that the fight against inequalities is over? Of course not! The fight against inequalities is permanent and increasingly transversal, because it is against inequality in income, it is against inequality in gender, it is against inequality in terms of life options and sexual orientation, it is against inequalities in terms of race or ethnicity. The fight against inequalities is permanent and it is a fight against this government. What the data show us is that we are not only fighting, nor are we just taking action, but these measures are effectively translating into concrete improvements in the lives of Portuguese people and in reducing inequalities. It is this fight that we must continue and not go back, as the PSD and the CDS continue to dream. The way is not back, the way is forward, the way is for the future, the path is less unequal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u133	Mr Marcos Perestrello spoke for the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u134	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, contrary to what is being heard on the right in this Chamber, contrary to what are the rumors of the misfortune sitting on the right side of this Parliament, the truth is that in recent years the country has witnessed a very positive evolution of the main social and economic indicators. We have less budget deficit, we have less public debt as a percentage of GDP, we have less unemployment, we have less inequality and we have less poverty. We have more jobs and better pay jobs, we have higher pensions, we have the families with the most income available, we have policies for everyone influenced by income — that is the free distribution of school textbooks or the cheapest passes from next year onwards — we have more children to be born and we also have, contrary to what sometimes seems to be the attention of our opponents to the right parliament, the economy to be growing. They'll say the economy could grow more. It's true! But it could also grow less, as a few years ago it grew, in years of poor memory of governance of those who now complain of low growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Mr Prime Minister, the results we have achieved are the result of the work of all: of workers and entrepreneurs, of families and of businesses, but also of good public policies, and it is about good public policies that I ask you some questions. We have recently received in Portugal the visit of two heads of State from countries with which Portugal maintains very deep secular relations, and even fraternal relations in the most different domains: from economy to culture, from social to linguistics. These countries and their presidents are the President of the Republic of Angola and the President of the People's Republic of China. These visits follow previous visits by Mr Prime Minister to both countries and are framed by numerous contacts at ministerial level and even Parliament. They are visits that undoubtedly translate an excellent and unique moment in Portugal's relations with Angola and China. In the visit of the President of the Republic of Angola, 13 bilateral instruments were signed — from health to justice, from science to education, from tourism to youth, through culture and the environment. During the visit of the Chinese President, 17 bilateral cooperation instruments were signed — in the areas of trade and services, culture, agriculture, the environment, higher education, banking and financial, energy, technology and a very important area that Portugal places on the Silk Road, which China wants to develop. In addition to public authorities, universities, companies, authorities, and the most diverse entities were involved. I ask you: does the Prime Minister think that the stronger Portugal's bilateral relations with countries of its geostrategic sphere, such as Angola and China, the stronger Portugal's position in Europe and in the world? What does the Prime Minister mean by this appreciation of Portugal's role in strategic countries for geopolitical and global economy? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I wonder whether we can expect, following this increase in our relations, the profile of Chinese investment in Portugal will change and whether, on the other hand, the prospects of Portuguese companies supplying the Angolan State can also improve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u135	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u136	Mr President, Mr Marcos Perestrello, I will follow the reverse order of your questions. The State visits by the Presidents of the Republic of Angola and the People's Republic of China were two very important milestones in Portuguese foreign policy. Visits have been part of a strategy that we have come to develop and proceed together between the various sovereign bodies — Government, President of the Republic and Assembly of the Republic. The State visit of the President of the Republic of Angola has been carried out in such a way as to enable the final healing of past conflicts with the Republic of Angola, creating conditions of political confidence essential to strengthen the relationship of trust between economic agents and between our peoples. The relationship between Portuguese and Angolans will always be an irreplaceable relationship. I think we all share the same emotion when we hear singing here, in this Hall of the Whole, in a loud voice, the anthem of Angola by the Angolans, many of them resident in Portugal, who were here present. And this does not happen by chance, but because it is necessarily a very affectionate relationship. It is a loving relationship which cannot fail to take account of the mutual interests of each State and of each national. The climate of trust that began with my visit to Angola, with the process of certification and progressive payment of debts, has been essential for Portuguese companies to regain total confidence and that we can find total confidence by the Angolan authorities. It was also very important on the part of the Angolan authorities to see how Portugal is ready and says "Present" in the fundamental bet of diversification of the Angolan economy, with the very important work to be developed now, particularly in the agri-food sector. It is important not to forget that Angola is a country with three times the area of France, in which only 6 % of its territory is formed by arable area. This means the enormous potential that Angola has for its development and for the development of the African continent as a whole. That is why we will work together to bring about this fundamental challenge, which is the relationship between Europe and Africa throughout this century. As far as the People's Republic of China is concerned, this visit was, of course, very important from a geostrategic point of view. Portugal is a country of the European Union, but it has more world than the European Union. And the geostrategic affirmation of our Atlantic coast, and in particular the port of Sines, is an immense added value. The centrality and depth that our autonomous regions offer Portugal in the Atlantic are of the greatest importance. Therefore, this visit, by very clearly reaffirming the importance of the Atlantic coast, was essential for the geostrategic positioning of Portugal. More: it was a visit marked by two very important steps. Until now, economic relations have focused mainly on the acquisition by Chinese capital of assets already existing in Portugal. What we have this time is productive investment, from the very beginning in the production of microsatellite and the creation of a shared service centre that will operate in Matosinhos and, on the other hand, the opening of the Chinese market to Portuguese productions in the agri-food industry, in particular for table grapes and pork. It was two visits, two very important milestones. Mr President, it is clear from this debate that the Portuguese right has a huge problem: not being able to criticize this government and the political solution it built in October 2015 from the point of view of results. We have more growth, more employment, less deficit, less debt, more private investment, more exports. Fortunately, today there is more income. Therefore, not being able to attack policies for their results, the right focuses on case policy, seeking to find a case here, a case there, to build an opposition narrative. Instead of making a frontal opposition and presenting alternatives, the right refugee is in the combat of guerrillas because he knows he is not able to fight in open field because he has no alternative to the policy that the Socialist Party, with the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Green Party, was able to erect and build in November 2015. Since the right can't do it, he takes refuge in the guerrilla tactic. But we must maintain, in the face of guerrilla tactics, serenity and determination to continue, step by step, to implement good policies that produce good results.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u137	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u138	I shall now conclude, Mr President. We do not rule to respond to the opposition, we rule to serve the Portuguese, giving them more growth, better employment, lower inequalities, certain accounts and the international credibility of restored Portugal. That's why we rule. It is for the Portuguese and the Portuguese, and that is how we will continue to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u139	To put questions, you have the floor, representing the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u140	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, let me start by saying that today I am truly amazed at the right. I was not expecting these new spokespersons of trade union claims in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD protests.]] I have only the following perplexity: where were you when — not four years ago, it was this month — you voted in the last State budget to count the time of service of the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians when they made the transition to the new career? [[Congratulations from BE.]] Where were the gentlemen? It was not four years ago, this month, in the debate of the State Budget, that we proposed that all nurses have career progression, even those who have individual employment contracts and are seeing this progression denied by some institutions. To remind me, your vote has helped lead to the same demands that are made here today as spokesmen. There's a décor! There are limits to hypocrisy! [[Congratulations from BE.]] The Left Block has put forward the proposals and you have helped them to fall. Mr. Prime Minister, we know of the hypocrisy on the right — we remember well what they did in their mandate — and we know that destroying is always much faster than building, but it is also true that unjustifiable bottlenecks remain in public services. [[PSD protests.]] These strangulations are in the failure of equipment in hospitals, schools, courts, prisons, but they are also in the problems of careers that have been dragged too long.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u141	It's the left block's fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u142	The government has been delaying solutions for the most varied careers — security forces, judges, judicial officers, teachers, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, nurses — and is thus deteriorating the situation. Professionals see their problems postponed and are working in poor public services. It's a disastrous combination. We do not even have to agree with all forms of struggle to agree with the fair demands of these workers. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u143	For the Left Block, it is true that one cannot deny visits to those who are arrested at Christmas and it is true that nurses have very fair claims—and should not alienate popular support for these claims by a strategy of struggle that is incomprehensible—but it is no less certain that it is up to the government to take the essential step, which is to have the humility to listen, the ability to dialogue, to negotiate rather than draw and solve problems rather than defer. It is our conviction that the government does not postpone problems because of incompetence or lack of care; it does so because it is convinced that the deficit race with Brussels is more important than solving the country's deficits. And that's a mistake. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the so many career negotiations—in fact, they are not negotiated, they are only postponed and never come to an end—they are a shadow in this legislature. The question I ask you is: does the government have any timetable for achieving results on behalf of these workers and the public services they need? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u144	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u145	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, as you know, a priority of this government is the re-evaluation of the centrality of public services as a fundamental right of citizens. That's what we've done in schools, that's what we've done in the justice system, that's what we've done in particular in the National Health Service. That is why we will reach the end of the Legislature with more than 100 family health units. That's why we have over 200 schools in construction. That is why we have hundreds of health centers under construction. That's why we're going to launch five new hospitals. That is why we will conclude the Legislature by referring to the EUR 1200 million that the right cut into the National Health Service. That's all we've done. Exactly because we know that there is no good public services without motivated professionals and because we know that we do not have enough professional motivation to have good health services that we have to manage the budgetary resources that we have in order to meet the needs of investment in equipment, installations and in hiring staff. If we have more than 9000 professionals in the National Health Service than we had in 2015 it is because we have increased investment. Probably, if we had followed another budget policy, we would not have these more 9000 professionals. The right, under the same rules, was to cut EUR 1200 million, while we, under the same rules, increased EUR 1200 million. It is with this strategy that we are going to pursue and it is on the same basis that we have come to negotiate. As you know, on your own experience, this government is negotiating. We negotiated the Budgets for 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, and we negotiated so many subjects. You know, therefore, that this government may have many shortcomings, but you cannot accuse it of unwillingness to negotiate and reach agreement. Madam Member, we have also done so with the generality of the unions. There are negotiations that are easier and others that are more difficult, but no one wants to conclude this negotiation process more than the government. No one wants more than the government to restore normalcy with social peace in the various services. To negotiate it is necessary for both parties to understand each other and to reach agreement. I sincerely believe that in some cases we have been further away, in others we are still very far away, and in others we are still practically concluding the negotiations. We must continue negotiations constructively, as we have done, because it is essential, we well know that our employees have good motivation for good public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u146	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u147	Mr President, Prime Minister, there is no one in the country who does not know how this legislation contrasts with the tragic PSD Government / CDS. That's what we agree on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u148	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u149	We also know how much expenditure has not been executed, how the economy is growing—so it is at this time that the investment is needed—and how career negotiations began at the beginning of this legislation. This is the time to move forward. We know more: that every year the government has proposed more demanding goals than those of the budget treaty, which makes no sense. In fact, the Socialist Party itself voted against the treaty still this month in the European Parliament. Macron has just announced more deficit in France. There is no justification for this zero deficit race. It is neither sustainable nor responsible. So a government that knows how to negotiate, if it wanted, already had these files closed. Mr. Prime Minister, this morning, once again, boats were removed on the crossing of the Tagus. On the Seixal, more passengers on a boat forced the intervention of the Maritime Police. They were too many people because there were fewer boats. The Transtejo passed one of the boats that makes the connection of Cocks to the Seixal, missing another boat in Cocks. [[PSD protests.]] The boat users despair every day to go to work, but they also despair the train and meter users. Links in this country are deleted almost every day. There are people who are desperate to study, to work, to return home. They are stopped boats, stopped trains, stopped buses due to lack of maintenance and renewal of fleets. [[PSD protests.]] Mr Prime Minister, one of the measures we think most important in the State budget we have just approved is the tariff reduction. We are committed to this measure and it is very important because paying less in transit means more pay by the end of the month. This measure will only have the necessary impact if transport exists, and we know that the right has left transport in agony. But it's been a long time and there's a lot of time to run. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, when will we have more boats on the Roof?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u150	Mrs. Catarina Martins, excuse me for interrupting you. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you want to create conditions for Mrs Catarina Martins to continue her speech. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u151	The gentlemen. Right-wingers are very uncomfortable when it comes to transport. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, when will we have more ships and more circulating material at the CP? When will the missing drivers and drivers be hired? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u152	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u153	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, it is true that the economy is growing, and is growing thanks to the policy reversal we made at the end of 2015. [[PSD laughter.]] This was what enabled the economy to be relaunched in 2016, 2017 and 2018. Despite the growth of the economy three years ago and although we first converge with the European Union, the fact is that the level of GDP, national wealth, has only now reached the level of 2008. So we have to figure out what the starting point was. The starting point was the fact that the right has taken us to the bottom, which means that we have come from the third sub-cave, we have now reached the street level and we will continue to resume a growth path that was interrupted with the international crisis of 2008. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] We cannot have the illusion that the growing economy makes everything possible for all, and now. That is why we must continue to walk with the safe step we have taken. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] The problem is not the budget treaty, the problem is that we must continue to reduce our debt, because only then will we be able to free up resources to do what is needed. As you know, half of the reduction in our deficit is due to job creation and the other half to debt service reduction. Yesterday we liquidated the last IMF benefit ( International Monetary Fund ) and today, fortunately, debt interest fell to a level of less than 2 %. If this trend continues, we will continue to free up resources so that we can make more and better investment. And we've done it, Mrs. Member. In the four years in which the right has ruled, in all public transport, EUR 75 million has been invested. Do you know how much has been invested since this government began its duties? EUR 310 million! The Soflusa and Transtejo contest will be open in January,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u154	...but more importantly than that, EUR 18 million has already been invested to make full repair of all ships, because they all needed larger or smaller repairs. We have also been investing in the subway, particularly in the hiring of drivers, and there is another large investment, which has now been approved, either for the new compositions or for the replacement of the security system, because that is how we must continue to do this. We must continue, we must invest safely, so that we can improve public transport. The honourable Member is quite right: we will make a revolution in accessibility to public transport with the new tariff, but we need to increase the supply to match this desirable increase in demand. It is therefore necessary that this investment be completed and that this investment actually corresponds to that increase in supply. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u155	You have the floor again, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u156	Mr. President, thank you very much. You know, Prime Minister, the problem is when we look at investment numbers and spending on essential public services and we see that this number is below, as a percentage of GDP, what it was before. This has nothing to do with doing now, very quickly, or at one time, it has to do with the fact that we believe that education, health or transport needs this piece of wealth that we produce or not. And we spend less and less on what is essential!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u158	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you two last questions. Almost a year ago, the government promised to present a proposal for a basic health law. As António Arnaut and João Semedo know, delivered by the Block of the Left, has been here since June in the specialized committee. Question : When does the Government present its proposal? When are we gonna move on? The last question I ask you is about the linkage of precariouss. PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regularization Program of Precarious Links in Public Administration) already has results and is allowing the binding of workers who have been precarious for decades, but there are sectors that are resisting the application of the law. There are companies such as RTP, universities, research centres and other public services that insist on illegal exclusion criteria and we want to know whether the government will act to force the integration of all deficiencies, because we know that this is one of the most important structural reforms in this mandate. Where there was precariousness there might be teams working in public service. That's all the difference and no one can stay behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u159	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Catarina Martins, regarding the Health Bases Act, I had said that by the end of the year I would enter the Assembly of the Republic. How this diploma will take place next Thursday, the Council of Ministers, I anticipate that between Friday and Monday it will be able to enter the Assembly of the Republic to meet the deadline we had set. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a law based on four fundamental axes: first, in adapting to the twenty-first century, technological innovations, new demographic trends and new forms of care delivery; secondly, in clarifying what should be the responsibility of the public sector, the private sector and the social sector; thirdly, in centrality in people and in health outcomes for each person; and finally in strengthening investment in innovation and research, which are essential to improving the quality of future health. As far as precariousness is concerned, in fact, in PREVPAP we have had results and these results must continue to be extended, but we must continue to fight precariousness in the private sector as well. It is true that 87 % of the new employment has been made with endless contracts, but it is necessary to do more and better and, therefore, I hope that the Assembly of the Republic will quickly approve the proposed law which the Government has submitted to combat precariousness, namely by eliminating two of the fundamental conditions for allowing future contracts — no longer possible the term contract as a young person seeking first or long-term employment — to apply the penalties at rates to which it abuses turnover, to reduce the expected time of the contract in the long term and to allow time for traineeships to start counting on time. This law, which awaits the approval of the Assembly of the Republic, is also essential to extend the fight against precariousness in the private sector. Finally,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u161	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u162	I will now finish, Mr President. Madam Member, in the National Health Service there have been no captives and we are not spending less on health or education, we are spending more. What is important, Mrs. Member, is that we are spending more on investment in health and education at the same time that we are spending more personal hiring for the National Health Service, more personal for schools, reducing the number of students per class and resting the salaries of both education professionals and health professionals
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u163	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u164	So when we compare the investment expenditure, it is important not to forget that we are increasing the investment expenditure at the same time that we no longer have the salaries cut...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u165	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u166	... and, on the contrary, we began to have the salaries recovered and the IRS reduced for these professionals. It is this square that we are doing, fortunately successfully and thanks also to the support of the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u167	Mr. Prime Minister, do not hurt me, but if you look at the electronic picture, you will see that the government has greatly exceeded its time and much more than the various parties have spent.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u168	I know! I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u169	So, Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for having some restraint on this next time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President, but I can assure you that the gratitude of the Government is proportional to the time we have spent on more! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u171	I could ask him: gratitude to whom? But I'm not gonna ask that question...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u172	The Bureau, of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u173	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u174	Mr President, Prime Minister, we welcome the fact that yesterday more than 2 million pensioners and social security pensioners received the whole Christmas allowance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u176	The workers and all the pensioners returned this year to receive the full grant of Christmas on the due date. The PCP is proud to have contributed to this, against winds and tides. Against those who wanted to liquidate that right, he's back there. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] It was worth fighting, because we rescued a right of April won with April 25th.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u178	This is an example of many other advances that we have achieved, such as the increase in pensions already in January, the increase in family allowance, the extension of the early retirement system for workers in the fields of farming and mining and for workers in the pier, the appreciation of long-term careers, the reduction of the price of electricity and of the passage in public transport and the freeness of school textbooks in the 12 years of compulsory schooling. These advances have contributed to economic growth and employment and point to the path that should and should be followed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u180	Instead of moving ahead with what is necessary, the Government is now holding up measures that have long been right to consider, now resorting to the PSD and the CDS to, instead of moving back, as it did on Friday, voting against the proposal of the CFP which eliminated the serious standards of labour law—in fact, are under discussion in this House of the Republic initiatives to maintain and worsen certain standards. Yes, always the convergence of the PDS with the CDS on work issues! I would say, by paraphrasing Mrs Assunção Cristas, that the PSD serves as a'supply' in these matters of labour law, but the CDS does not go through a tie when the interests of the powerful and the capital are at stake. [[PCP applause.]] With regard to labour legislation, what is required was that the Government withdraw its proposal, which only worsens the situation of labour degradation that we already have and increases the fair discontent of workers. How it is necessary to give another answer to the dissatisfaction between those who work, who produce wealth but do not have a salary that reaches them until the end of the month, those for whom the month is always left. For this reason, the CFP argues that the national minimum wage is not limited to 600 €, which long ago should be applied, but which is set at 650 € in January 2019. The government is still in time to decide. There's no valid reason not to. But it is not enough to increase the national minimum wage; it is necessary to increase the overall wage for all employees in the private sector and the Public Administration. In the Public Administration, workers who have struggled over the years for the increase in wages have now achieved an increase for workers covered by the increase in the national minimum wage which, by imposing the rules of the Public Administration, places them in the monthly €635. It is important for these 70 000 workers, but the other 600 000 are missing. The Government has the opportunity to decide that all workers have an increase in wages. This is another challenge that I have launched to you: almost nine years ago without receiving a hundred salary increases. How much longer will it take? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u181	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u182	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, yesterday was indeed important because the restoration of the payment of the Christmas allowance throughout November is not only fundamental to the organization of the family budget, especially the elderly, but it is, above all, essential to maintain the completeness of that right as an autonomous contribution from the rest of the salary, because the idea of the monthly dilution of the Christmas allowance, rather than reducing the total expenditure, had as a real objective to dilute for one day to make the Christmas allowance disappear as a fundamental right of pensioners. That is why its empowerment in its entirety is absolutely essential. Mr President, we are in no way at all in disagreement with the proposed law which the Government has tabled here and I am very sorry that the CFP does not properly value the first bill that any government has tabled since 1976 in this House of the Republic to dynamize collective bargaining and to combat precariousness. When we delete two causes that are possible today to use the term contract — whether long-term unemployed or young in search of the first job — we are fighting precariousness; when we reduce the term of the contract in time we are fighting precariousness; when we reduce the chances of renewing contracts we are combating precariousness; when we penalise companies that abuse turnover we are combating precariousness. The honourable Member could say 'but they could go further'. Power, we could, but the truth is, this is a step forward and not a step back. This should be very valuable and it was very important that it could be approved on a broad parliamentary basis in this House of the Republic. We have no doubt that income policy has been a key part of this economic policy, which has enabled the results we have achieved. It was essential to return to trust, to end the unrest that citizens had on a daily basis. The citizens, when they woke up in the morning, did not know what they were going to hear on the radio: whether it was an announcement of a new cut in income or whether it was a new increase in taxes. This calm in the daily lives of citizens was essential to restore confidence to all economic actors and that is what has enabled increased investment, which has enabled job creation and, frankly, job creation is even the most important labour measure. We must continue this course, as we have done. That is why the national minimum wage will be, in 2019, what we announced four years ago in the Government Programme that it would be, which implies an increase of almost 20 % throughout the salary. And the whole salary, in Portugal, fortunately, has been increasing. When we want to dynamize collective bargaining, it is because we believe that it is essential that it can also contribute to increasing income. I myself have said many times that today a company that wants to be competitive in the global market is not worth wanting only to compete for the price, it has to compete for quality, its innovation capacity and the quality of its human resources. Therefore, if you want to be competitive to export, you have to be competitive to hire. And it is absolutely regrettable that the level of recruitment in many of our companies, including young graduates, are accumulating frustration, many of them feeling doubts about having their future here in our country, and that are absolutely essential to companies. If companies do not realize that they have to grasp this generation and to motivate them to be competitive in the future, they are condemning themselves, to their future irrelevance. The same applies to public service which, over the last three years, has seen its earnings recovered from the replacement of wages that had been cut. He also saw his income benefited by how he benefited, like all Portuguese, with the elimination of the overtax, with the significant increase of the lower salaries in the framework of the Public Administration, with the replacement of many of the allowances, with the replacement of the timetable, which had been unilaterally changed and, above all, with the defreezing of careers, which returned the prospect of progression that had disappeared from the lives of thousands of public servants. That is the path we must continue to take, but, Mr President, with only one step forward and without taking the risk of having to take two steps back. [[PS Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u183	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u184	Mr President, Prime Minister, job insecurity continues to be a serious problem for workers in private enterprises but also in the public sector. The Government has assumed the commitment to integrate workers with precarious links. In May last, workers with precarious links in public enterprises should be integrated and, at the end of this month, in the Public Administration, but delays will accumulate. There is a great need for these workers! See the concrete example of social security, where hundreds of workers are missing. What's going on? There are many reforms to be paid late, many months waiting for a funeral allowance. Mr. Prime Minister, we know that later the retroactives come, but while they come and do not see the drama of these people, who are left with no income for months, waiting for social security to respond to this problem. Yes, it is necessary to effectively link workers with more workers so that services, such as social security, can respond to what is needed. [[PCP Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u185	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u186	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, with regard to PREVPAP, we had 33 579 cases for consideration. Of these cases, 14,500 had a favourable opinion and 12 230 were already approved, which means that 84 % of the cases that had been approved are approved, while the tenders are in a position to be opened. The disparity is essentially due to the fact that, in some sectors, workers who already have links, through the individual employment contract, felt that they had to compete with PREVPAP in order to be able to change the nature of their contractual arrangements. That is not the case, and that is why, above all, the amendment is explained. As far as social security is concerned, we are well aware of the lack. As soon as the government started, we ended up with the requalification situation of many officials, we continued to open up, very recently, an invitation to tender for more than 200 social security, in order to speed up this whole process of analysis, because we well know that this is one of the areas where there is indeed a shortage of staff.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u187	Mr. Prime Minister no longer has time, but Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa still has some time. I do not know if you still wish to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u188	Mr. President, I must take advantage!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u189	Mr. Deputies, of course. It's your right! You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u190	Regardless of this difficulty, I am sure that for the next time the government will manage better and will be able to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u191	Mr President, if you will allow me, as the people say, 'with the evil of others, we can do well'.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u192	Mr President, in any event, I would like to raise an important question, which concerns national dependence on agri-food, with particular seriousness in sectors such as meat and cereals. We need to boost national production, replace imports with our own production. On the contrary, the Minister of the Environment said that the Government wants to further reduce national beef production by about 30 %, i.e. imports more than 200 million euros in meat and both in milk. This idea is based on the theory that in Portugal it is cheaper to import than to produce, this theory not only contradicts the objectives that they say defend, such as environmental protection, as the ecological footprint of imports is increasingly heavy. Mr. Prime Minister, we do not need to produce less, we need and we can produce more, we need and we can produce more fruit, more cereals, more potatoes, more milk, more meat. of the Minister of Agriculture, we have heard only silence. I would like to know your opinion, but you have no time to answer. Back here, I'll wait for you, Prime Minister. [[PCP Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u193	We shall then proceed with the questions to the Prime Minister. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u194	Mr President, Prime Minister, there is no doubt that in this Parliament, we have made a very positive path, particularly with regard to incomes or the reversal of what was known by the mouth of the previous government as a « huge increase in taxes ». We have also shown positive steps in the reversal of many of the measures taken by Mrs Cristas, particularly in relation to forests and the environment. We have taken positive steps, but the Greens, along this path, have always found a strong brake on the government, which deals with the issue of the deficit and the obsession with the deficit from which this government has not been able to escape. The Portuguese need to understand that this government obsession with the deficit means the freezing of a set of fundamental investments for the country. Mr. Prime Minister says you can't do everything at the same time. But it can be done faster and faster — Mr. Prime Minister knows that! What was the problem—to explain now to the Portuguese—if the deficit was a few tenths higher? What was the problem? There was no lack of control over public accounts, but there was capacity to make more investment, particularly in the area of health, education and transport. Mr. Prime Minister, I believe that what happened today in Sixal is quite revealing of a hurry that the government does not have. Today, several passengers, as is public knowledge, sought to enter a ship already chartered to be able to stay on time at their place of work. The Government and the Prime Minister will respond: "But we have already taken steps. By 2020, four more ships will already be on the Roof, and by 2021, three more and by 2022, three more ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u195	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u196	The question we are asking is: and by 2020? Will the passengers continue to jump into the crowded boats, Mr. Prime Minister, without alternative transportation? And the ships to which they are taking parts, instead of being arranged to be able to serve in this short period, will they continue to stop at Lisnave, Prime Minister? How are we going to solve this situation? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u197	With a amending budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u198	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u199	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, we have no obsession, but we have a determination, which is to comply with what we promise the Portuguese, to comply with what we have agreed with the Greens, to fulfil the international obligations to which the country is bound. We disagree with the treaty, but as long as the treaty is dealt with, we must comply, just as we are in agreement with the Greens. The honourable Member will not find a measure which has so far not been implemented because of the deficit obligations. He will say: «But we could go further».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u200	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u201	Of course, we could go further, but going further, we might run the risk of having to go further. This is a risk that we cannot take and, therefore, we will gradually continue to fulfil the different obligations we have. In fact, it was through the fulfilment of these obligations that we were able to effectively put an end to the de-investment in the fleet of the Transtejo and the Soflusa and invest 18 million euros in repairing the ships that were to repair. Ask me if I can have the boats today that I will only be able to have in 2020. No, I can't! Neither can I, nor can the honourable Member, because we cannot change the time. If the order had been made not by this government but by the previous government perhaps today those ships would already be sailing. [[PS Applause]] [[PSD Protests]] But the order was made when it was made and the production will be ready when it is ready. Until then we have to run! We have already tried to rent boats so that we can do the same we will do with railway compositions, but there are no boats in the market that can be rented. That is why we do not have a provisional solution, except to hire human resources and provide the material means so that repairs can be made, so that the number of failures and the number of inoperative ships decrease, and thus may have fewer situations like those we currently have. [[PS Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u202	Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u203	Mr President, Prime Minister, there are boats stopped in Lisnave, there are trains stopped in the country that are not arranged to be able to circulate, even if it was for a short period of time, while the new means do not come. But the government does not want to make that investment! Mr. Prime Minister knows that the government, in relation to the deficit, is more papist than the Pope and goes beyond the taxes made by Brussels. This is a government option! We do not know whether Mr. Finance Minister, President of the Eurogroup, has a great influence on this subject, but he will most likely have. It is not good that you have, because we should think first of all about the Portuguese. To think about Portuguese is to make the investments necessary to give answers to needs, especially in areas as fundamental as health, education, transport or others. As we speak in public services, we must once and for all that we value public officials and public careers is to put in order the public services that are provided to the citizens. Mr Prime Minister, you will excuse me, but this government has revealed little capacity for dialogue, because it has been too intransigent. As far as teachers are concerned, in particular, but also other careers, public protests are there.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u204	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u205	I will finish, Mr. President. Public protests are there, obviously, but with regard to teachers the situation is paradigmatic. Mr. Prime Minister, I want to hear from your mouth that it would not be fair to count all the time of service provided by the teachers for the purposes of valuing career. If it is fair, it is in this sense that the government must move forward! In a phased way, it is true, but it is in this sense that the government must move forward, and the Prime Minister knows that it is fair. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u206	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u207	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much once again, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia. Balance! We have to do everything we need for the Portuguese: Portuguese need to invest more in the National Health Service, and we invest more EUR 1200 million! The Portuguese need a school with more quality and that reduces school failure, and we have reduced the number of students per class, linked 7 000 teachers, introduced curriculum flexibility — we are having better education! Portuguese need better public transport, so we have a measure that will revolutionise accessibility to public transport through tariffs! The Portuguese need more rail, so we have the biggest investment in railways in the last 100 years! The Portuguese also need to have the right accounts, because they cannot continue to suffer with the garrot of the debt that we have accumulated and that it suffocates us permanently! We don't have an obsession. The Portuguese economy was able to recover the wealth level of 2008, but unfortunately with much higher debt than we had in 2008. And in order to reduce debt, we need to have positive primary balances so that, year after year, we can reduce that debt. What we have managed to do, Mrs Member, is reduce debt, reduce deficit and, at the same time, restore salaries, restore pensions, increase pensions, reduce the huge increase in taxes, increase public investment! But, Mrs. Member, we can't do everything for everyone at the same time! It's not possible!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u208	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u209	I shall now conclude, Mr President. And the honourable Member, who has so often negotiated with us in so many matters, well knows that we have a negotiating flexibility only comparable to the generosity of the President in relation to the time he gives to the government... [[Rice]] But there's always a limit. And we can't go beyond the limit under the PSD and the CDS are laughing at us, saying that they were right and now it's time to go back. We will not go back, because the way of the Portuguese and Portugal is forward! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u210	Mr André Silva has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u211	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister : « Don't eat enough. They would leave me without eating or drinking for three or four days. I drank water when I went to the bathroom». The story is from Olivia, a 13-year-old girl from Togo who was illegally brought to work as an au pair. He was a victim of abuse and torture until he managed to escape. But Olivia's story is not unique. In Europe, women and girls are still the most vulnerable to trafficking, while children account for 23% of the victims. In March of this year, the NAP proposed the implementation of a national plan to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings, a resolution which the Government, and well, welcomed. Two weeks ago, in the State budget, responding to the appeal of the SEF ( Service for Foreigners and Borders ), it was approved by the NAP proposal to strengthen human resources to combat trafficking in human beings. Last week, a report from the European Commission confirmed that Portugal is the second country of the Union with the most victims of human trafficking on labour exploitation. There are tens of thousands of foreigners who are being abused on agricultural farms and our country has begun to be used as a new route of trafficking for African children, operating as an entry door for the Schengen area. Portugal cannot continue to boast of economic rankings and divert the eyes of this scourge. All people subjected to this new form of slavery are surrounded by fear, abuse and threats. And in the case of children, the situation is even worse. Growing up as "trafficked" conditions your personality and your view of the world. We have to make sure that no victim remains invisible. Portugal has to protect. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you to comment on this report and to know whether or not the Government is committed to this good and fair fight and what measures it will or is taking.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u212	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u213	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I would first of all like to tell you that trafficking in human beings is, from a humanitarian point of view, one of the worst consequences of how the phenomenon of migration is managed and that the most effective way to combat it is with an integrated migration policy that enables it to fight in the causes, with good border management and, above all, in the creation of legal immigration channels. As long as there are no legal immigration channels, we will always be encouraging the use of illegal networks, which will be as intense as the opportunity they have to explore. That is why women and children are the most exploited of all exploited and those at greater risk in relation to trafficking in human beings. That is why the Government has approved the Fourth Action Plan on Prevention and Combating Human Trafficking between 2018 and 2021 and that is why we are mobilizing resources to make this fight a priority. As far as the data in the report are concerned, I am not going to discuss them, because between the fact sheet I have and the figures Mr has given there is such disparity that we will perhaps be talking about different documents. And since I don't want to run the risk of not being both talking about it, I would rather ask me in writing the question that I will also answer in writing so that the numbers will hit the right ones on one side and the other. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u214	We are thus at the end of the first item on our agenda. The preparatory debate of the next European Council shall follow, under Article 4 ( a ). the Law on the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union construction process. To introduce the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This will be the first European Council where there will be a substance analysis on the European Commission proposal on the multiannual financial framework to be presented at the Sibiu Summit in May 2019. The first question is that we believe it is essential that this assessment should take place as quickly as possible and that it should be avoided at all costs that a final decision will be taken only after the European elections. Unfortunately, negotiations have been slow and, therefore, today, there are few prospects for this objective to be achieved. But because hope is the last thing that must die, we must continue to beat ourselves, as President Juncker said today, so that even the European elections can be approved this multiannual financial framework or at least a political agreement on this matter. As for our negotiating priorities, they are known and do not suffer any kind of change. First of all, we must increase the resources of the Union, whether through the transfer of States or through our own resources, in order to suit them with their new ambitions. The Union may and should have an ambition to extend its intervention to new areas, but it must do so without sacrificing its own identity policies, such as cohesion policy or common agricultural policy, in particular its second pillar. in the same way, it is necessary to ensure adequate conditions of application, in particular with regard to co-financing rates, so as not to cause additional difficulties to countries such as Portugal. We also consider the proper treatment of the outermost regions as a result of the Treaty of Lisbon essential. Finally, we agree with the Commission's step of creating new instruments that could serve as an embryo with the euro area's own budgetary capacity, included in the multiannual financial framework, with a proposal created for the instrument of support for reforms that we believe is of the greatest importance in financing the investments that we need to strengthen convergence. For our part, we will continue to be determined to move forward in this direction. Following this, the Council will surely be marked by a debate on Brexit following today's decision by the British Prime Minister not to put the treaty to the vote. As has been said in the last Council, the agreement reached is the agreement reached and was the best agreement possible after several months of negotiation. So there is no justification for reopening the negotiating process at this time, even though we understand the difficulties that Mrs May has for her Parliament to approve. On the following day, there will be a very important debate on dialogue with citizens, which Portugal has actively prepared with more than 60 meetings and which will lead to the presentation, at the Sibiu Summit, of a new strategy that is particularly important for us. Since we are part of the trio of presidencies from 2020, we will also have to participate in its implementation. Portugal accompanies the proposals for conclusions on the Single Market, in particular the need to conclude the Digital Single Market, Energy and the Capital Market. On the other hand, it also accompanies the conclusions on migration, being known as the Portuguese position, which was reaffirmed yesterday, when we were one of the countries that signed the document for a Global Pact on Migration, promoted by the United Nations. We also support the initiative of the High Representative and the Commission on combating misinformation, at a particularly important time, when it is essential for the defence of freedom of expression and communication to combat the forms of manipulation of social networks, both in fashion and so practiced by some Portuguese political sectors in particular. Finally, we also support the proposals on combating anti-Semitism and climate change. An important moment we expect is the summit of the euro zone. We welcome the outcome of the Eurogroup with regard to the establishment of a common budgetary support mechanism for the Resolution Fund and the reform of the European Stability Mechanism. We believe that there has been a negotiation for the creation of the European system of deposit insurance which can and should move forward, but what I would like to stress is that for the first time, the Eurogroup has requested an express mandate from the Council to move forward with the work of building budgetary capacity in the competitiveness and convergence dimension. We regret that there is still no agreement on the stabilisation function, which is certainly important in times of crisis. But as important as having a stabilisation mechanism for days of crisis is to be able to invest already in convergence which is the great stabilisation factor and, above all, in the prevention of future crises. That is what we have been insisting on for three years. I insist that the bridge to be established in the multiannual financial framework with the reform support instrument may and should be a basis for work which the Eurogroup can and should take into account. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u216	For an intervention, Mrs Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : At the European Socialist Congress that took place last weekend, the PS sold itself to its European comrades as « the star among European Socialists ». Mr. Prime Minister, it is also not difficult to be a star in a universe of only five governments, the minority majority within the European Union, as is the case with Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u219	I'm glad it started wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u220	in this marketing action, omit, of course, the true state of place that lives in Portugal, the fruit of your broken promises. This government has been the cause of systematic strikes, trains in chaos, firefighters and revolting teachers, port paralysis... and the list continues. Is this what he calls the "socialist star", compared with other European socialists, Prime Minister? They sell themselves out there as having turned the page of austerity, but the citizens live the chaotic reality of a government champion of captivity, who wants to beat Europe's foot, but when it is ahead of the Eurogroup sends appeals to Portuguese budgetary policy. The film Kramer versus Kramer already existed. Now there is Centeno versus Centeno, in the best Portuguese way, a sort of « Olivia Patroa» and « Olivia Costureira ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u222	“ We’ve made it! » — announced the President of the Eurogroup, with a pump and circumstance, after 18 hours of negotiation on the supposed reform of the euro area. For now, if it were an effective reform of the euro area, it would be welcome. PSD has repeatedly warned of the need for this reform. If it were indeed a reform, it would not take six years to implement the Single Resolution Fund safeguard mechanism. If it were indeed a reform, the European Stability Mechanism would be transformed into a real European monetary fund capable of supporting more efficient management of sovereign debts. If it were an effective reform, we would be facing the completion of the third pillar of the Banking Union, through the European Common Deposit Guarantee Mechanism, but instead create — surprise! — a working group to deepen technical work, which means, in practice, marine in the drawer. If it was indeed a reform, there was budgetary capacity for the euro area and to promote convergence, competitiveness and stabilization, but the President of the Eurogroup said timidly that a common vision had not been achieved. There are too many six, Mr. Prime Minister, to support the pump and the circumstances of the President of the Eurogroup. We are not facing a real reform of the euro area! Mr Prime Minister, will the next European Council be more ambitious than Dr Mário Centeno, President of the Eurogroup? As Mr. Prime Minister says, hope is the last to die... or will he rebuke your Minister of Finance for the repairs Dr. Centeno made to the budget plan and the risks identified by the Eurogroup? Or, who knows, are you going to reprimand the President of the Eurogroup for sending messages to Portugal? Mr. Prime Minister, your mirror game between Europe and the Portuguese is over. You can't fool everyone all the time! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u223	Mr Carlos Gonçalves also spoke by the PSD Parliamentary Group, in the use of the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Brexit is one of the greatest challenges facing the European Union and the whole process around the negotiation of the UK exit agreement has not prevented an environment of great uncertainty about the future of Europe, before the exit of one of its most important members. The latest news from London, with the postponement of the vote in Parliament of the draft agreement and Theresa May's intention to review the terms of the agreement with its European counterparts, further added this uncertainty about the future. We have recently heard from the Prime Minister, as the Portuguese Government is facing the current British intention to review the Agreement, but we would like to know how it is currently going to proceed. With or without agreement it seems clear that the social and economic consequences for the European area and Portugal will be inevitable. Although the PSD Parliamentary Group, already in May 2017, recommended to the Government a study on the implications of Brexit in the Portuguese economy, we had to wait unfortunately for a study, but this study was carried out by the Portuguese Confederation ( CIP ), in order finally to have some scenarios of the repercussions of the departure from the United Kingdom of the European Union to our country, scenarios that provide for the reduction of exports and direct investment flows, the reduction of remittances of migrants and negative impacts on tourism and also on real estate. It was therefore very important that the country had prepared itself for the consequences of Brexit in fundamental areas for our economy, taking the necessary measures, in the image of what other countries have done. In addition to the economy, there is an area, in relation to the United Kingdom, which we consider fundamental, that has to do with citizens, people. This issue was considered as a priority in negotiation and we understand that our country was well in defending the interests of our citizens residing in the United Kingdom. However, we also believe that it is our duty to give all the conditions to these citizens so that their process of regularization of residence in the post-Brexit can be carried out in the best way. Unfortunately, here we renew our concern about the chronic problem of care that we know of our consular network in the United Kingdom and which causes several months' delay in issuing the necessary documents, I would say fundamental, in order to register at Home Office. We clearly live in an exceptional situation, which should have deserved an exceptional response, too. Portuguese residents of the United Kingdom deserve this effort by the Government of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u225	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Margarida Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u226	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The agenda itself of this European Council is a traditional agenda. With regard to the internal market, Jacques Delors said, with regard to the debate with citizens on the European Union : « No one is in love with an internal market ». But the European market mixes with people's lives. For example, it gives European citizens the right to live, study and work in another Member State. If there were any doubts, the Brexit negotiation process and the concern with Portuguese living in the United Kingdom help us to realize its importance. The internal market is also the political area where decisive challenges arise for the future of the European Union : the single digital market, the energy union, the capital market and the European Union's industrial policy. The European Council will discuss the multiannual financial framework. I take this opportunity to congratulate the Government on its successful reprogramming of the PT2020. The good level of implementation of the current Framework has now made it possible, and I stress successfully the reprogramming of the next one, in order to better promote the qualifications of people, organizations and territory, to support more companies and, at the same time, to respond to the needs systematically evidenced by our authorships. However, on the next table, we have already highlighted its positive aspects in previous debates and also expressed concerns, in particular on the amounts allocated to Portugal or the greater requirement for national participations, in particular as regards agricultural policy. And there is an additional concern: there is still an agreement with this European Parliament. It would be most reasonable, in terms of timetable, but it does not seem to me that this is acquired; I see even how difficult it can be. And here is a question on which I would like to have the reaction of Mr Prime Minister : the transition between Table PT2020 and Table 2021 / 2027. Given the subject of migration on the agenda, we would not like to hear from the Prime Minister at the end of this Council statements identical to those he made at the end of a recent European Council, with which he felt a great inconvenience, statements, these, which we understand very well. Portugal is one of the 22 Member States of the European Union that subscribe to the Marrakesh Declaration, the global pact for safe, orderly and regular migration, but migration policy remains a black face of the European Union. Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, next to the European Council is the Euro Summit. The interdependence between national policies and the need for a close link between the euro area economies became particularly evident during the recent economic and financial crisis, also due to the lack of such a link and the mechanisms that protect it. We did not think — we did not think — that European budgetary rules were sufficient to ensure stability. Jacques Delors had already warned us at the outset that protective mechanisms were needed to promote convergence in the euro area and not allow the euro to become an instrument of divergence. We paid a lot of money for this reality and this disability. The process of economic and social convergence in the euro countries has thus been built on an artificial basis. The turbulence situation showed its fragility, in fact, this fragility was itself, generating turbulence. These turbulences in recent years have forced governments and European institutions to create the necessary institutions, but at a slower pace than the desired one. But the institutions we have are not enough. We need to continue reform of the institutions. That is why the agreement reached by the Eurogroup is important, but it seems to us not enough. In view of the proposals of the Eurogroup, what are the guidelines for Portugal for this Euro Summit? Mr Prime Minister, we cannot debate the euro and / or the institutions that regulate it without speaking in the budget treaty. The budgetary treaty should have entered the Treaties of the European Union on 1 January 2018. It has not entered, and well I say, but the European Parliament has adopted a report requiring an assessment of the impact of the budgetary treaty before it is incorporated into the Treaties of the European Union. This assessment seems essential to us and it is important that this evaluation looks carefully at the Portuguese case. We would like to know the position of the Government in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u227	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : Juncker's speech on the next European Council is a treaty on the state of the European Union. The European leaders, he said, in an arrogant raid on European leaders, as their habit is, must « stop arguing and move on to action». And therefore the state of the European Union at the moment is to have a Commission that sends finals to the Council, a Council that sees in the forthcoming European elections a threat and European elections that are threatened by agreements that are intended to be made to condition the will of the people. An example of the pre-election emergencies is and was the attempt to integrate the budgetary treaty into Community law. We therefore welcome the decision of the European Parliament which rejected the integration of permanent austerity into Community law. More: we note the important position of the Portuguese MEPs in this historic decision...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u229	Some of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u230	... and now we want to know what the position of the Portuguese Government is. The Socialist MEPs rejected this introduction of the budget treaty. Does the Prime Minister agree with this position and follow it? Is the Portuguese Government on the side of those who reject the budget treaty being transposed into Community law? Mr Prime Minister, there is another question I would like to ask you, as regards Portugal's relationship with European bodies. The Eurogroup sent messages to Portugal for days, requiring additional measures. Minister Mário Centeno seems to want to re-edit the story of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde : in this case he seems to fall asleep as Minister of Finance of Portugal, and ensures that the accounts are properly beaten and everything is controlled, but then he agrees as President of the Eurogroup and requires additional measures to comply with the Stability Pact. So the question is obvious, Prime Minister : where do we stand? Which of the "Mari" is to take seriously? Will the Government apply or not any additional measures, as indicated? On austerity, there are reports from Brussels to Portugal, but on public debt, which Mr. Prime Minister recently said was one of the main problems in the country, Mr. Mário Centeno seems to forget to take to Brussels the conclusions of the report which the Left Block has made together with the Socialist Party. It was written in the stars that this dual function would give bad results. Mr Prime Minister, why is it useful to preside over a Eurogroup which means the opposite of the economic choices we have followed since 2015 and that the Government recognizes that they have been important and decisive for economic recovery? As you can see, it's no use at all, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u232	Related to the next multiannual financial framework ( QFP ), one of the pillars of the strategy on the table is the creation of a European army. This choice was also announced by Macron and, when we questioned the government, the answer was given that it would not be an army but rather a military cooperation. And I remember — we all remember! — that this Parliament unanimously agreed that it would not accept the creation of a European army. But it is interesting to recall that, in budgetary debate, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group said very clearly that if Germany were to support the position of Macron there, it would be more difficult to stop that purpose. Days later, Angela Merkel, in the European Parliament, confirmed that a « real and true » European army is essential for Europe. So, if there were any doubts, they dissipated and, if any naivety still existed, it is not now admissible. in this framework, the question is also obvious: will the Government comply with the decision of the Assembly of the Republic to reject the creation of this European army and thus reject permanent structured cooperation?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u234	It is in this kind of choice of priorities for the future that one perceives the real European project under construction. Mr. Prime Minister, there are two more questions I wanted to ask you, and one of the big issues is, of course, Brexit. At this moment, we are still facing a major confusion: the Court of Justice of the European Union confirms that it is unilaterally possible for the United Kingdom to revert the decision; Theresa May postpones votes; Donald Tusk convenes a meeting for Thursday, placing on the table a « non-agreement ». The question, therefore, is to know how the Portuguese Government views it that it can end this great Gordium. Finally, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, one last question on the fulfilment of fundamental rights within Europe, which has been greatly appreciated in the European Councils. There are exceptions to the rule of law in the European Union. We cannot fail to point to the enormous hypocrisy, especially when there are four democratically elected citizens who are imprisoned and on hunger strike at the moment because they are denied access to European justice. I wonder if the silence of the Portuguese Government is synonymous with complacency with the usurpation of rights by the Spanish State, continuously, to these Catalan prisoners.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u235	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u236	That the rule of law, freedom and democracy should not be made, merely meaningless words, such as so far, and that very concrete positions should be taken. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u237	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u238	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Council on Thursday and Friday will, in principle, be - we hope yes - the last of this year. And as much as it costs us to recognize, we're going to end the year worse than we started. In essence, there are three plans that show that unfortunately we are worse than 12 months ago: the Brexit crisis is worse; the freezing of the reform of the euro area, even after last week, is worse; and the adoption of a multiannual budget, i.e. from Community funds for the next period, is unfortunately also worse. Firstly, when we should be negotiating the future relationship between the Union and the United Kingdom, we are at the forefront of a very worrisome scenario, which is one of a no-agreement or a disorderly exit. Secondly, when we should be consolidating the fundamental instruments that enable us to protect the euro from a crisis, the fact is that we continue to include them, namely the conclusion of the third pillar of EMU (economic and monetary union ). Thirdly, when we should be negotiating a Community budget with ambition, which would even allow an increase in overall expenditure to accommodate the new political requirements, but not letting cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy fall, the fact is that we will further aggravate the divergence between the European economies. And we don't have much time! We have very little time for the United Kingdom to move from Member State to third State, and in this sense we are those who are very convinced that the way out of the United Kingdom of the Union impoverishes Europe but also impoverishes the United Kingdom. But I confess, Mr Prime Minister, that at this time we are concerned about what is happening in Portugal. at this time, many Member States of the European Union are developing contingency plans for companies and their citizens on these markets, so that, in the face of a messy exit scenario — which unfortunately today does not seem improbable — can be protected. We have already asked the government what you are doing and the government is not responding. We asked the CIP very recently whether it had been consulted on the launch of contingency plans for companies operating in the United Kingdom. The companies that are operating there claim that the Government does not consult them on this matter. And it is important to remember, when the Secretary of State tries to devalue the CIP, which was precisely the CIP that the Government requested a study on the impact of Brexit, it did not go to the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ) or any other social partner. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to know what the Government is currently doing with regard to companies and Portuguese in the United Kingdom and that, in an uncoordinated hard-Brexit scenario, there can be a lot of suffering. The second question concerns the next Community framework. To date the Government has not yet been able to explain why Portugal, which has a per capita GDP of 77 % of the European average, will suffer cuts, particularly in cohesion policy, when other countries, such as Luxembourg, which has a per capita GDP of 258% of the European average, do not suffer cuts, and others, such as Austria, Finland, Belgium and Sweden, all with GDP above the European average, even have increases. But worse, I would like to see whether the Prime Minister will maintain the Council's mistaken and pilgrimage idea, presented by Portugal, of creating European taxes. I understand the euphemism of saying that they are own resources, but in practice we are talking about taxes raised at European level. The truth is that this idea, in addition to being wrong, is destined to fail — even this week Germany and France have already come to put a cross on it — but Mr Prime Minister continues to talk about European taxes. I wonder if in the next Council it will maintain this strategy, which we already know is doomed to failure, and in the opinion of the CDS it is deeply wrong. I would therefore like to know what the Prime Minister is going to defend. The third question relates to the issue of the Euro Summit. And once again, we will have to say that the European Council does not miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity. Unfortunately, at the next European Council, we will miss another opportunity to effectively implement the reform of the euro area, which we all need to give liquidity to finance the Portuguese economy. But, worse than that, we again had a President of the Eurogroup who only reminded us of that figure that existed a few years ago on Portuguese television of 'Olivia Patroa', 'Olivia couture'.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u239	Ah! This has already been used by the PSD, has copyright!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u240	In Brussels, what Minister Centeno says is that « we have succeeded! Do not keep on seeking. ” — it reminds me, moreover, that a former Prime Minister, who is his friend, I think, when he closed the Treaty of Lisbon, said 'right, man! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u241	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u242	What Minister Centeno says in Brussels is a kind of "good man! », but arrives in Portugal and says that is, after all, insufficient. So I ask you, Prime Minister : Will Portugal or will it not use the fact that it has the President of the Eurogroup to have a higher voice in defending the completion of the reform of the euro area? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u243	Mr Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u244	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The next European Council is taking place in a framework of great instability and, at the same time, concern for the future of the people. The European Council insists on the way to deepening the policies of the European Union — neoliberal, federalist and militaristic — and on the concentration of power in its supranational institutions, policies determined by the great powers and at the service of the interests of the large economic and financial groups. The European Union is responsible for worsening living conditions, inequalities and injustices affecting workers and peoples. It is the European Union itself that, by failing to respond to the problems felt by the people, is responsible for the creation of the ‘cook’ for the development of reactionary and extreme-right forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u245	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u246	The deepening of the single market benefits particularly the most developed economies, to the detriment of the less developed economies, creating more inequality and divergence, to the detriment of economic and social cohesion. The truth is, over the years, the negative impacts of common policies, the single market and economic and monetary union have never been compensated. As regards the multiannual financial framework, the issue is not as much as it is approved, but whether or not it is acceptable for Portugal. And the European Commission's proposal is very negative for Portugal and for Europe: it cuts into the common agricultural policy and cohesion to increase the headings of security and defence, accentuating asymmetries between countries. This adds to the cut in POSEI (Specific Options Programme to address distance and insularity), the increase in national participation in the application of structural funds, the greater dominance of financial instruments, the strengthening of macroeconomic conditionality associated with the European Semester and the creation of new forms of political conditionality, which we consider unacceptable. The principle of unanimity in the decision on the multiannual financial framework is essential for the defence of the interests of each country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u248	The news that bore the cloak of silence around the so-called reform of economic and monetary union justifies renewed concerns. See the example of the announced agreement on the so-called “backstop” of the Single Resolution Fund ( FUR ), which points to another source of financing of financial capital at the cost of public budgets. Announcing developments with regard to this reform, it should be stressed that new abdications of State sovereignty vis-à-vis the European Union will no longer mean more than new and strengthened mechanisms of economic and political domain, determined by the great powers of the European Union. The solution to the problems facing the country is not the continuation of an option that conflicts with our sovereign development. The solution goes through the firm defense of national sovereignty and independence and the liberation of the country from submission to the euro and the conditions of the European Union. With regard to the exit process of the United Kingdom of the European Union, the contradictions present in the postponement of the vote by the British Parliament of the so-called Exit Agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union are compounded, but it is not yet clear what its outcome is. The CFP reaffirms that the sovereign decision of the British people should be fully respected and that the Portuguese Government should intervene to safeguard the interests and rights of Portuguese residents and workers in the United Kingdom and should develop mutually advantageous bilateral relations between Portugal and the United Kingdom, which respect the sovereignty of both peoples and the aspirations of both countries. Finally, we express our deepest concern at the statement by the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 6 December on the alleged fight against anti-Semitism, which calls on the Member States to adopt the definition of IHRA (International Holocaust Reminder Alliance), a definition which is challenged even by 40 Jewish organizations, which denounce the purpose of deliberately confusing the legitimate criticism of the State of Israel and the defence of the rights of the Palestinian people — including the right to resist occupation — with anti-Semitism. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u249	I have the floor, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u250	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: If there were any doubts about the democratic nature of the European Union, they would be completely removed from what has been seen in the process of leaving the United Kingdom of the European Union. In fact, in this process, there is clearly strong pressure — even blackmail — on the part of the European institutions, a sort of drawback to the people of the United Kingdom, a punishment for having behaved badly, for having decided to leave the European Union. This is, in our view, absolutely unacceptable. Regardless of the outcome of this process, we believe that the Portuguese Government should now begin to look at the future of Portuguese residents in the United Kingdom in order to safeguard their interests and rights. Mr Prime Minister, it is therefore important to know what the Government is doing at the moment, particularly with regard to the right of residence, family reunification or even the guarantee of the social rights of Portuguese people living in the United Kingdom. The European Union formalised a trade agreement with Japan last July and, according to the European Commission itself, in the framework of the negotiations of this agreement, some 200 closed-door meetings with multinationals were held, with an absolutely small or residual number of meetings with public interest groups. In other words, as happened with the ECTA ( Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement ), this agreement was negotiated practically on the back of Europeans and without any transparency. What I am asking, Prime Minister, is the position taken by the Portuguese Government in this agreement of the European Union with Japan. This matter is very important for us, especially since, as with similar agreements, it also provides for the use of arbitral tribunals, which will allow multinationals to resort to arbitration mechanisms, which, in good rigour, constitute a parallel system of justice which is thus at the disposal of multinationals, as in fact EDP intends to do with the Portuguese State in relation to the millions of euros associated with the costs of maintenance and contractual balance. In view of this picture, the Portuguese do not understand the reasons why the Portuguese State renounces its courts for disputes with multinationals. I would therefore like you to take your opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u251	You have the floor to close the debate, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let's start with the issue of Brexit. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Carlos Gonçalves for his kind words to the action of the Government, in order to try to protect the rights of Portuguese residents in the United Kingdom, who have fully safeguarded those rights in the agreement negotiated with the United Kingdom whose approval is now in question. But I would also like to point out that either Portugal or the United Kingdom have already publicly declared that, in the case of no-deal, the rights of residents will be respected and not put into question. With regard to the question of the existence of a contingency plan, it has since been developed, at European level, with regard to the mobility of citizens, air transport and financial services, with weekly meetings between the Commission and the different Member States, but also at national level, in contacts at the level of the Economic and Social Council and the Strategic Council for Internationalization of Economic Affairs and in working with companies from the automotive and textile clusters, in particular in addition to the creation of support lines, in preparation, in particular, for tourism and for small and medium-sized enterprises. To meet precisely the needs of our compatriots living in the United Kingdom, the consulates of London and Manchester have already been strengthened. On the issue of the multiannual financial framework, Mrs Margarida Marques put her finger on a very important wound: delays in approval mean a serious problem for the European economy from 2020 onwards. I know that the scheme of the funds provides for its extension + 2, but in any case creating an increased framework of uncertainty beyond Brexit, in addition to the difficult negotiations, from a commercial point of view, with the United States and tensions in the international economy, is a serious mistake and we therefore defend the greatest urgency in its approval. And the greatest urgency in its approval means that we must defend what is essential: we must have a budget in line with the ambitions of the European Union. The European Union cannot continue to promise too much and fail to do so. So I don't have to explain the cut, I have to fight the cut, because I'm against that cut and nothing justifies that he exists in cohesion policy. in this drift towards populist demagogy in which the CDS, the CDS now speaks a lot about European taxes. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] But, honourable Member, mathematics is very simple: if we need more money and we have less money, with the way out of the United Kingdom, the only way to have more money, with less money, is for the national states to put more money or for the European Union to have own resources. Now, since the national states are not financed "by work and grace of the Holy Spirit" but by national taxes, their question is whether we will increase the appropriations with national taxes or European taxes. And the European taxes we're talking about... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I heard you recently; now, listen to me, if you don't mind! As I said, the European taxes we are talking about are not taxed on each of the Portuguese, they are not taxed on each of the small and medium-sized enterprises, they are taxed on financial transactions, on the digital economy, on the great giants of American trade, which generate income in the countries of the European Union and do not pay taxes in the European Union. These are the ones you have to pay and that is what we call « own revenue ». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u253	Only the Socialist Party understands that they do not affect people!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u254	I realize that the right hand is very upset at finally seeing an internationally respected Portuguese Finance Minister and, therefore, that he can preside over the Eurogroup. That is why they have to try this little bit between the « recommendation here» and the « recommendation there ». [[Protests from PSD Members.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very simple: the official estimates of the European Commission systematically differ from Portuguese estimates. The advantage we have about the European Commission is as follows: in 2016 we won; in 2017 we won; and in 2018 we won! In 2019, we will win again! [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] We have always shown by the results that we are right and that is why we need no further action. And we will simply comply with the 2019 Budget, as we have done in 2018, 2017 and 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you know, I am not in favour of such a budgetary treaty and even less so of its crystallization, with its incorporation into the Community acquis. I thought that didn't exist. However, we must comply as long as it exists, but it must cease to exist as quickly as possible. And it will soon cease to exist as much as is clear to all that it is unnecessary, because States, by their own will and by their own ability, are able to carry out a good budgetary exercise. The Portuguese case is a good demonstration of this: by complying with the agreements we have concluded with the Left Block, with the Portuguese Communist Party, with the Greens Ecological Party, with the Socialist Party and with the Portuguese people, we have been able to scrupulously comply with all the rules, without needing the budget treaty to tell us how to do it. It is enough, essentially, to govern well and that is what we should focus on. Now, the central issue of this European Council and the European Union is the conclusion of economic and monetary union. It is good that there has been progress in banking union, although not yet in deposit guarantee insurance, but the essential thing is to provide monetary union with budgetary capacity. There is no monetary union in the world without budgetary capacity. We can discuss whether it is faster or if it is slower, whether it has only a stabilisation function or if it has only a convergence function — it should be both — but it is very important that, at this meeting of the Eurogroup, something has already been achieved that has not been achieved so far, that it was to request a mandate from the Council to move forward, from the budgetary dimension, in terms of convergence and competitiveness. The European Commission, within the multiannual financial framework, has an instrument to support reforms which are done in accordance with what this budgetary capacity should be for a country like Portugal. This instrument must be provided with the necessary funds, it must be duly restricted to the countries of the euro area, it must take particular account of the countries of convergence and, above all, those who have completed adjustment programmes and must focus on what the structural reforms each of the countries has to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u255	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u256	I'm done now, Mr. President. Our priorities are clear: education, training, adult education, lifelong learning and technological innovation. These are the essential factors to strengthen competitiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u257	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u258	I shall now conclude, Mr President. I would just like to say to Mrs Rubina Berardo: yes, indeed, it was desirable for the Eurogroup to have another composition, but for that, it was essential that it did not have overwhelmingly ministers of the PPE (European People's Party) and that it had ministers of another political family, particularly socialist. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] And the most serious thing is to see that the PSD and the CDS support, as a candidate the President of the European Commission, not only those who want to maintain the immobility of the reform of the euro area, but also, and worse, who wrote in a letter that Portugal should have been punished for violating Community rules. That's the policy I'm dealing with. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u259	Don't you have any further arguments? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-12-11.u260	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of the preparatory debate of the European Council and thus to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. and will have the Government's Question No 23 / XIII / 4 on the agenda. a ( CDS-PP ) — On public infrastructure. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 46 minutes.]]
