ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start this long session. [[It was 14 hours and 37 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, with the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 201 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Legal arrangements for the individual and paid passenger transport activity on uncharacterised vehicles from an electronic platform, Mr Secretary will read the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 940 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Ends with the possibility of suspending the retirement status of judicial judges for the exercise of the functions of arbitrator in tax matters ( fourth amendment to the Legal Regime of Tax Arbitration ) ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, 941 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ends with the possibility of use of arbitration by the State and public ( BE ) legal persons, which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, and 942 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish the Military Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals as a national laboratory for the medicinal product ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 3. the Commission. The draft resolutions Nos 1756 / XIII ( 3 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to correct flight defects and provide adequate assistance to passengers to the autonomous regions ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1757 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote with ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ) the study of the optimization of the operationality of the Madeira-Christian Airport Ronaldo ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1759 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Proposals for measures to strengthen palliative care ( CFP ), which fall to 9. the Commission, and 1760 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the response of the National Health Service at the level of continuing care ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u3	Let us then move on to the first item on our agenda and review the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 201 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Legal arrangements for the individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterised from an electronic platform. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Paulo Correia, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We return to the debate on a new sector of activity, individual transport in decharacterized vehicles, an activity sector that currently works irregularly, without rules and with little or no supervision. Individual transport in uncharacterized vehicles results from technological innovation that has begun a new economic activity in many countries of Europe and the world. In our view, it is not worth pretending that there is no new activity, what matters is to regulate it, to monitor it, to monitor it. This new activity is operated by electronic platforms that use the tax and economic territories of many countries for commercial activity. One of the rules adopted in the Decree, which is now being reviewed in the Assembly, is that these electronic platforms are considered transport operators and are therefore subject to and subject to Community legislation and national legislation which is applied to all transport operators. Similarly in this Decree, which was also approved here with the support of the Socialist Party, this new sector of activity has an architecture that ensures real conditions of competition, combating work precariousness and combating the minimization of tax evasion. These electronic platforms, as I said recently, are considered transport operators. They can only provide service to electronic platforms operators that are constituted as companies and these companies, which, in turn, provide service to electronic platforms, as I have just said, hire drivers, with whom they make employment contracts or service contracts, and also hire vehicles. Both for these operators, both for vehicles and for drivers, in the Decree that we are re-appreciating, also with the support of the Socialist Party, a set of standards and requirements that guarantee essential objectives such as combating work insecurity and tax evasion has been introduced. What we are discussing today are amendments to this Decree, these amendments which, in the Socialist Party's proposal, seek to achieve two objectives. The first is to increase the contribution that these electronic platforms will make to this new sector of activity, which is given to supervisory and regulatory entities. In the Decree that is being reviewed, the proposed value was for an interval between 0, 1 % and 2 %, but in the proposal for an amendment presented by the Socialist Party goes to a contribution of 5 %, a fixed value that will be paid by these electronic platforms. At the same time, we present a proposal for clarification so that companies currently operating in the taxi sector can also operate in this new sector of activity, they can be TVDE operators, individual transport in uncharacterized vehicles. And they can do so as long as they comply with all the rules and licensing process that is applied to all other companies who also want to provide services to electronic platforms. It is, of course, prevented that these companies currently operating in the taxi sector may use the taxi sector vehicles for the individual transport sector in uncharacterized vehicles, as they may also not be able to use the benefits and tax exemptions that are applied in the taxi sector and that will not be applied in this new sector. A balance is thus promoted between a new sector of activity, resulting from technological innovation, and the traditional sector, which is the sector of the taxi industry. In conclusion, I would like to highlight the progress that the Government has made in modernising the taxi sector — and that, within a few minutes, will be the subject of intervention by the Socialist Party — and the points in common are already publicly known, consensualized with the representative associations of the taxi sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u5	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate today takes place due to the dismissal of the diploma without promulgation by Mr President of the Republic. That is why we are debating this issue again today. The President of the Republic, in his presidential veto, invokes two reasons: firstly, which tells us that this diploma, which we appreciate today, does not affect the legal regime of the taxi; secondly, which tells us that the contribution provided for in the legislation to the TVDE regime, transport on vehicles decharacterized from the electronic platform, is incipient to the obligations and rights of both models. So we're here today discussing this. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we discuss the matter of the presidential veto itself, I think this is the right time to make a historical reflection on the course that has brought us so far. For months, we have been discussing this matter for quite a long time, in the field of expertise, in committee. The various proposals that existed on the table, both those of the Government and those of the parties that support this government Parliament, were very different from the PSD proposal, from the conceptual model, on a paradigm issue, I would say even. For us, it was always clear and evident that the operators of these platforms are transport operators and not just electronic tools. That is, we were always right about this. This was in fact the fact that the Court of Justice of the European Union made clear in several judgments, particularly in December 2017. But this difference of approach conditioned for many months the parliamentary debate and the PSD had to expect others to understand what was at stake, that others might actually absorb the model referred to by TVDEs, the transport operators. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u7	I now very much appreciate the evolution that the Socialist Party has had, even because Mr. João Paulo Correia has just said for three or four times that they are transport operators. I'm glad they're doing that understanding, but for months, they haven't had it. We therefore had to wait, I said, for other parties to follow us in this paradigm, in this model, so that we could build clear legislation on the rights and duties of operators, following the models that are emerging a little across Europe. We therefore safeguard the interests of citizens, the rights of workers of both models, TVDE and taxis, and regulate the training needed for drivers. The rules must exist within TVDE, responsible the platform operator for its compliance in its entirety. Could it have been faster? Yeah. But that never depended on the PSD. We had to expect others to evolve in their thinking. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us look at the reservations expressed by the President of the Republic. On the first point, the fact that the diploma does not affect the legal regime of taxis, this House had the opportunity to tell Mr President that it was attentive and sensitive to this argument. After the veto, we had here debate on draft resolutions of different parties, we agreed on recommendations to the Government to complete the process. Of course, it would help all of this if the government were more diligent and speedy. We know that the government set up a working group almost two years ago to advance the legal and legal regime of taxis. We now know, also by the voice of the Socialist Party, that the process is finally completed. I am glad, because in this way, the Government joins the Assembly to respond to the first objection that Mr President of the Republic has expressed in his veto. As for the second reservation made by Mr. President of the Republic, it meets what we have always defended : if the operator of the electronic platform is a transport operator, he must not only be responsible for the system but, and above all, he must contribute to the regulatory costs, as well as to the IMT, to the Authority for Mobility and Transport and to the Fund for the Public Transport Service. I cannot but remember that the PSD was the only party that, as a specialist, presented a rate of 5 % for these operators to contribute to the system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u8	It is true that this proposal has not been approved, that we have had to give up much lower limits, but we have done so in the name of this principle, otherwise there would be no article in the diploma that would hold the platforms accountable and that would force them to contribute financially to the system. We therefore accepted this reduction, but the fact is that these values set out in the diploma, as Mr President has said, are "a symbolic minimum standard". The PSD, of course, agrees on this matter with the President of the Republic. In the past, we tried to get the other parties to follow us, but it was not possible. Now, we are pleased to see that our initial proposal, which we bring back to this House, is also proposed by other parties. There was a whole path of evolution, of the approach of some towards us, and that we recorded as positive, because what matters is to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u9	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In view of the reasons put forward in the return of the diploma by the Presidency of the Republic, considering the history of this legislative process, we believe that today there are finally conditions for this House to approve a regime which satisfies the transport sector, the citizens and the reservations expressed by the President of the Republic. We therefore tabled only two amendments. In the first proposal we intend to clarify how taxi activity can simultaneously develop TVDE activity, fulfilling the applicable licensing procedures and the provisions provided for in this diploma, affecting this activity unlicensed vehicles such as taxis, that is, we want it to be possible to have both sides, but not the same car. A car can't be a taxi in the morning, be operated electronically in the afternoon and at night be once again a taxi. Don't! The schemes are different, but companies may actually have different vehicles to do one service or another, complying with the rules of both legal models. In the second proposal, which I have already referred to, we have recovered the value of the contribution of our initial proposal, setting 5 % of the intermediation rate charged by the electronic platform operator in all its operations. With these proposals, we hope to overcome the gaps identified in the presidential veto and advance with the innovative regime that will bring to the system clear rules, allowing the coexistence of the conventional model, that of the taxis, with the model of TVDE. This is the moment when this House can give a clear signal that it is available to monitor technological developments, which brings us every day new possibilities in various sectors, including mobility, which cannot stand hostage to the speed of the legislative process. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u11	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first question we want to reaffirm here is true for the passenger transport sector, as for all other sectors of the political debate. It is that modernizing is not the tow of multinationals, because the sad reality is that PS, PSD and CDS have spent the last few years tow of multinationals, dazzling with modernity and with a new activity that, after all, are no more than liberalisation and the regime of privilege for those with economic power. First, they allowed the illegal action of multinationals in shameful behavior, which, in fact, remains with governments giving instructions for passive action by the security forces. Several times, through written requests and interventions in Parliament, the CFP denounced this complicity with the violation of the law, but the parties of the PSD / CDS governments, first and then PS, maintained these practices. It was thus stated that, in this framework, the force of the State does not exist to be used against the economic power, even when it represents the defense of the law before these policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u13	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u14	At the same time, PS, PSD and CDS try to legalize a parallel regime for the same economic activity, a parallel and competitive regime to that of taxi, molded at the service of a large multinational and threatening the taxi sector, with the consequences of unfair competition from large economic groups willing to invest a lot of money in order to appropriate themselves to economic activity. Thus, in April this year, PS, PSD and CDS united their votes to pass a law that would legalize the operation of multinationals, legalizing unfair competition, in a process where BE also advanced with a proposal to create a second regime parallel to that of taxi. Only the PCP has always maintained its perspective, voting against these PS, PSD and CDS proposals and rejecting any idea of a second regime for paid passenger transport. This law was passed in the Assembly of the Republic, despite the growing and widespread controversy that in several cities and countries of the world has been developed against the objectives of multinationals who, on the pretext of the use of digital platforms, promote illegal commercial practices such as dumping in prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u16	In order to achieve the market, they do not meet the requirements imposed on taxi drivers and their companies on the market, they transfer to third parties, including to workers and drivers, the costs of cars, insurance, administrative costs, thus taking over the revenues obtained by the operation of thousands of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u18	At the same time, the cities that promoted this type of liberalisation are beginning to debate with the inevitable consequences of such a process and the need to reintroduce such issues as the delimitation of quotas is again raised. The law was vetoed by the President of the Republic, who welcomed many of the arguments that had been put forward in that discussion, namely these issues of unfair competition between two regimes for the same economic activity: one without quotas, the other with quotas; the other without fixed prices, the other with fixed prices. What the Assembly of the Republic should do is, in fact, what the CFP, from the outset, proposes and defends. In other words, instead of creating a new system parallel to and competitive with taxi, it should regulate digital platforms by imposing on them the use of lawfully licensed cars such as taxi cars; preventing the liberalisation of prices that multinationals will use, and use, for dumping and unfair competition; maintaining the definition of taxi quotas, admitting developments in letter A and letter T schemes; and finally taking advantage of to implement a vast package of measures of true modernisation of the sector. What is unacceptable is the maintenance of a framework of inequality, as long as they are promised, for those who are suffering and have been suffering, measures that, up to now, continue without leaving the paper.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u20	But in the concrete legislative process in which we are once again presenting ourselves to the debate with our proposals. Basically, we have taken up three central issues that we have been stressing from the outset: the organization of supply and activity, with the allocation of competences to municipalities regarding the licensing of cars to be put to service; the definition of prices and tariffs with clarity and transparency, stability, with an approved tariff, which does not allow fluctuations, duplications, price triplets, to the service or flavor of algorithms, which does not allow dumping or sales with loss; and finally, the definition of training schemes for drivers, which have to have equal criteria and the same applications in terms of demand. These are the proposals presented by the CFP, but we reiterate that this policy of leaving — as the PS, the PSD and the CDS want — that something like the economic power of multinationals puts on the market as many cars as you want, charging as much as you want, while the taxi sector remains highly regulated and with completely different requirements. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u21	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are always two ways of looking at this problem. One is to realize that the problem does not exist. There is a distortion of the market, there is unfair competition, but we do not want to innovate and we do not want to fulfill our duty, which is to respond to a challenge that society presents to us. We understand that we should respond to this new problem, which sets up an innovation, something that we all support, which configures new management models and even, as has often been applauded, what we want to invest more and more in the speech of all parliamentary groups: to support innovation and entrepreneurship. Therefore, this is a new business model, it is a new activity, it deserves a new law and the legislator must be aligned with the characteristics of this new business, that is, it has to apply what it seeks to apply to everything that concerns the Administration. No one here is against Simplex, no one is against simplicity, but at the same time, we all like there is legal certainty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u24	... security of service, legal certainty, that there is consumer protection and that state bodies are able to monitor and act in accordance with what their competences are. Thus, the business and the service provider should be protected, as well as the consumer of the same activity. In fact, this is expressed in the veto of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u26	What does the veto tell us? It tells us that there are still points of contact with a sector, if we want to call it traditional — I do not like the term, because it may not seem important, that it is not serious, that it is despicable, but not, is an important sector of national economic activity — the sector of taxi. So we need to know what you can do at those points where there are contacts. I am of the opinion that we should not give less to the platforms, we should give more to the taxi sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u28	And as we want to give more to the taxi sector, the CDS did exactly that, it also gave an early response to the one that was one of the doubts of the President of the Republic. at the same time that we solve a new problem related to a new activity, we will also give more to the taxi sector. But since we have not been able to do both at the same time, we have drawn up a draft resolution, long before Mr President's veto. Furthermore, the veto is 30 March 2018 and on 22 March 2018 the CDS has scheduled and discussed a draft resolution exactly to fill, in advance, the doubt of Mr. President of the Republic, that is, it is necessary to address at the same time the points where the problems coincide. Therefore, we have made proposals to : create specific rates for night services or certain dates of the year - and here are the flexible rates; create a double fare for cars with more than four seats; densify the concept of T-tax and letter A-tax, which exists, but which we have not dealt with in one legislation or another, or even in the taxi law, which is a matter we should also deal with; face the possibility of the sector entrepreneurs being able to suspend the licence for a period of 12 months, bypassing what is, eventually, a market difficulty. More: we have also proposed to implement a sustainable plan for the purchase of 'environmental friends' cars — remember that another great design of the government and management, and now, ours too, is the reduction of CO2 emissions — because the sector really deserves to modernise the fleet, and this is even one of the factors that can help improve the climate of competition; to improve the conditions of taxi markets, establishing minimum standards of conditions for users and professionals; and even because taxis work, yes, as a true public service in areas of the country where there is not yet Uber, create a benefit, with a discount of up to 10%, for people who are isolated and who intend to move, in particular, for health treatments. So we have done our part, we need the government to do yours. It has now been announced that the Socialist Party will make an intervention next, and I look forward to the government finally fulfilling its share, bringing here the proposals and accepting, or not, the CDS proposals. on our part, we are available to work quickly, faster, more efficiently, more efficiently, more effectively, so that the taxi sector has the same weapons, or have better weapons, to fight also on the market and to achieve a true climate of competition in this sector. If the government makes such a bet and this presentation, the CDS will obviously be satisfied.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u30	on our part, it is simple: obviously we will vote in agreement with the one who was the discussion made in the specialty, we have nothing against — it was already in the law, but now it appears more clearly — the possibility of also the taxi sector entrepreneurs being able to have electronic platform activities. We will not be in favour of creating a rate, or of increasing that rate, because for us, as we must calculate, creating rates and taxis is not exactly a way of helping the market, but we will not be against this proposal. What we want is that this sector has the ability, at all times, to be monitored, we want there to be control, security and consumer protection, that is, we cannot protect the weakest part, which is the consumer. What we want is that the consumer has more options, with more quality, more security and, if possible, at the best price. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u31	It is the turn of the Green Parliamentary Group. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The return, without promulgation, by Mr President of the Republic of the Decree of this House, on the individual and paid transport of passengers on uncharacterised vehicles from an electronic platform, or, more simply, by means of its acronym, TVDE, deserves the following comments from the Greens. The President of the Republic basically lays its foundation on two substantive political reservations. On the one hand, because the diploma was only worked and designed for one of the competing entities, in this case the TVDE, completely ignoring the legal regime of the taxi. On the other hand, because the solution found is not balanced, because of course, for the taxi sector, quotas do not occur for TVDE, in particular, the issue of tariffs, since for taxis they are fixed, while for TVDE they are free. The Greens follow these reservations by the President of the Republic, who we have indeed denounced in this plenary during the various discussions on this subject. But in addition to these, the Greens continue to reaffirm other reservations that completely separate us from the diploma, its objectives and its more than foreseeable consequences. In fact, the diploma we now appreciate would represent a real knife in a sector as important as that of taxi, to the point of challenging its survival in the short term. But it would also represent a knife in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises linked to the sector and even to the economy itself, since significant revenues would no longer have as their destination and would become channelled abroad, with all the consequences resulting from it to our economy. That is why we are not surprised at the President of the Republic's decision, which, moreover, we welcome. What The Greens miss and consider absolutely unacceptable is that multinationals such as Uber, but not only, continue to develop their activities outside the law. What we are surprised at is that multinationals do not respect laws and continue to operate, already over four years ago, in a grossly illegal way and in the face of the passiveness, indeed, worrying, of the authorities. If no one is above the laws, multinationals can't be either! It is therefore necessary to comply with the laws because that is why they exist, that is to say, to be respected. And, if they exist, it is for all naturally and democratically. Finally, I would like to say that, for the Greens, this decision by the President of the Republic must first be seen as an opportunity, especially so that we do not have two completely different legal regimes for the same service or profession. This is the key issue in this process, which is, in fact, not to be resolved with the proposals that the PS and PSD present to us today, because these proposals do not only respond to the reservations expressed by the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u33	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u34	I will finish, Mr. President. He then said that these proposals not only do not respond to the reservations expressed by the President of the Republic, as they do not solve the problem that is installed and which points to two different regimes for the same activity, with clear and notorious damage to the taxi sector. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u35	Mr Heitor de Sousa, of the Boco de Lefta, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that it is necessary to begin by setting up this debate and withdrawing a lateral debate which is not relevant at the moment and that Mr Hélder Amaral has introduced in his speech. We are not currently discussing the measures to modernise the taxi sector. We are discussing the response that the Assembly of the Republic gives or does not give to the veto of the President of the Republic and the way in which we want to pursue the answers which the various parliamentary groups make in relation to the reasons behind the veto of the President of the Republic. Therefore, with regard to everything that has to do with the modernization of the taxi sector, we know that the CDS presented a draft resolution, the Left Block also presented a draft resolution long ago, it was announced that the government, through the working group, prepares a bill that aims to modernise the sector. When this bill arrives, then, we will discuss the modernization of the taxi sector. in this case, what we discussed is the legal regime of the individual and paid passenger transport activity on uncharacterized vehicles from electronic platform. in this title, it is the main reason why the Left Block did not present any proposal for amendment to the Decree approved in the Assembly of the Republic. It is because we believe that the legal regime of an activity that is carried out from an electronic platform violates the European Court of Justice, which has already decided in an action brought by the Barcelona taxi professionals in favour of these taxi drivers, who rightly invoked the fact that Uber type service is a disguised taxi service. As such, it should be considered a transport service and not a service from an electronic platform. This is not a matter of detail, it is a matter of minority, because it will be very difficult to monitor an activity that is not a transport activity framed in the public transport regime of the type taxi, but which falls within a legal regime of an activity carried out from an electronic platform. Companies may be based here in Portugal, may hire only Portuguese people, but the reason for the illegality and infringement of competition rules is that they operate from electronic platforms, software rights that are discriminatory and impossible to control. This is because companies are not based here, they are only subsidiaries of multinational companies. With regard to a company providing services on the basis of Uber-type platforms, whose tariff regime is dynamic and whose algorithm no one knows - and Uber will not provide it - it will be very difficult to dispute, even in court, that this algorithm should be set in accordance with what the Authority for Mobility and Transport (MT ) or that the Institute for Mobility and Transport ( IMT ) have come to define to frame this dynamic regime. For example, the proposal of the CFP, being a good proposal in its intentions, will very hardly be applicable, because that assumes that Uber, for example, admits to providing an algorithm that is solely owner and that does not provide anyone, since there is, let us say, the golden pot.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u37	There is no algorithm, there are tariffs!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u38	Even the rules of the dynamic tariff regime nobody knows them. And it is not for reasons of law fixation that this will be possible to change. Mr Bruno Dias, this is a very plausible intention to be implemented, although we agree with the proposal made by the CFP Parliamentary Group. But in order to do so, it was necessary for Uber to be framed, not on an electronic platform, but on a public transport system, in the same way as the Court of Justice has already decided. That is why, in many countries, Uber's service was not accepted, because Uber is not willing to comply with the rules of the framework of a public taxi transport service, which corresponds, in essence, to a segmentation of the taxi activity that is being developed on the basis of customer aggregation from an electronic platform. I repeat, based on customer engagement from an electronic platform! What is being prepared here is that there are electronic platforms that make this process of customer aggregation in Portugal, which are already in the territory, and that will certainly demand, for the future, an equalization of conditions in relation to electronic platforms of type Uber and Cabify. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the various parliamentary groups, including the CFP, which the Assembly of the Republic is preparing to approve is a true legal labyrinth whose bottleneck will hardly be resolved unless the decision of the European Court of Justice is followed, to reject the possibility of a transport activity from an electronic platform when it is a public transport activity. However, we agree with a number of proposals, which are, in many cases, the same as those we have already presented in our bill and which has been rejected by this House. in this sense, we will vote in favour of the proposals which are in accordance with the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u39	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u40	I just want to conclude by saying that there is a problem of inequality and inequity in the treatment compared with the regular taxi service that none of the proposals solve, namely the fact that the licensing activity is the responsibility of the municipal chambers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u41	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u42	... but these municipal chambers, in the proposals that are presented, with the exception of the PCP, are completely absent. Therefore, the quota will continue to exist for regular taxis and will not exist for Uber type taxis. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u43	For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When you voted in favour of the legal regime of vehicle transport from an electronic platform, the PS Parliamentary Group took the intention to contribute to regulate a new mobility solution and a new business model, knowing in advance that it would also be necessary to modernise the legal framework in force for taxi. in this intention, we were, in fact, accompanied by the PSD and CDS benches and had proposals for rules that came from all parliamentary benches. We therefore knew from the outset that the legislative process had to be broader, decisive in order to take advantage of the opportunity to review a complex and outdated legal reality regarding the regulation of urban passenger transport. We have never, therefore, dealt with this legislative process as a way of resolving a legal difference between transport through electronic platforms and taxi transport. The PS Parliamentary Group has always addressed this legislative initiative with the conviction that it was necessary to modernise the private passenger transport sector in the context of the development of new public urban mobility policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u46	For the PS Parliamentary Group, the interests to be guarded were clear: the public interest in urban mobility and environmental sustainability; the defence of the rights of users, platform operators and the taxi sector and their employees. The regulation of this new reality of urban mobility could not be made in the image of the taxi sector, nor could it reproduce the regulation applicable to this sector today, as many have come to defend. This is because new forms of mobility require different regulations. In close dialogue with taxi sector representatives, we stated that this legislative process was a unique opportunity to modernize the individual passenger transport service, improving mobility solutions for users in terms of quality, comfort, efficiency and price. In the face of changes in urban transport, introduced by technology, taxi regulations have become obsolete, existing rules are outdated and prejudice competition, consumers and industry operators themselves, especially because technology has democratized access to transport. Calling a car, through an application, whenever we want and where we are, arriving where we want the best possible way and with the best prices, are advances that have increased the advantages of comfort, speed and cost of urban transport for everyone. Technology solved several of the problems that were previously solved by restrictive rules. Ending these restrictive rules opens up not only the possibility of improving the quality of the transport service, but also of boosting gains for all operators, in particular taxi operators. We are sure that it is possible to implement new business models in terms of more innovative service, with better quality, security, better prices and more and better choice options. We therefore defend an inclusive regulation for individual passenger transport, with beneficial proposals also for the taxi sector, opening the door to new business models and incorporating more technology and innovation into the transport service. Only through a new differential service proposal will the taxi sector be able to respond to the success of electronic transport platforms. The measures submitted by the Government to modernise the taxi sector, developed in consultation with the sector's representative associations, are indeed an important step in this direction. I stress the measures relating to the conditions of the fleet, the tax benefits, tariffs, training, control of driving hours, licences. We therefore have the conditions for, with a new starting point and not a point of arrival, achieving, on the one hand, a clear response to the concerns presented by Mr President of the Republic and, on the other hand, contributing to the guarantee of equal conditions of competition. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The transformation of the urban transport system will only be possible with the combination of initiatives in the most diverse areas and at all levels. This is why we are going to approve this legislative initiative again. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u47	There are no more entries, although several parliamentary groups still have time to intervene. [[Pause.]] Mr Bruno Dias has the floor, the first to offer himself for an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was important at this time to clarify that technologies are usually very good, but they have nothing to do with unfair competition. It has nothing to do with unfair competition, much less with the recognition of unfair competition in law, in the system of privilege to multinationals. One thing is technology, applications, at the service of people; another thing, completely different, are the multinationals themselves behind what is being legalized here, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! What the CFP proposes and defends is a very clear and transparent tariff regime that should be approved. If it's good for some, it's got to be worth it to everyone and there's no algorithms that anyone has to find, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! What we propose is that the tariff be met and that it be fulfilled by all, which necessarily implies that there is no reversal of roles here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u49	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u50	I will finish, Mr. President. It's not the multinational that serves as a regulator. What has to happen is that the State has to define the rules of an activity, and these rules have to be for everyone. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u51	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers, so we can move on to the next item on the agenda, which is from the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 203 / XIII — Right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person. To begin the debate, Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I want to leave you four very short notes. The first is to say that the PSD is, and has always been, in favour of the principle of self-determination of gender identity. In cases which are weightier and comprehensible and in which it is revealed and attests to the inconformity between the gender identity of a person and the sex with which it was born and registered, that person must be able to adapt, provided that he is totally free and informed, to the different identity he intends to adopt. The second note is to say that the PSD is, and has always been, a defender that the non-consistency between the sex attributed to the birth and the subsequent willingness to change sex in the civil register, with the consequent and mandatory modification of the masculine name for women or vice versa should always be supported and supported in a clinical evaluation. [[BE's protests.]] Third note: the PSD continues to consider that an interdisciplinary clinical report should be required and not only a simple medical certificate, either for minors or for older than 18 years. And do so for two reasons: the first is that, if it is not so, nothing or anyone, even the conservative can ensure that at the time of the decision a greater citizen is in possession of all his psychic conditions in order to make that decision freely. [[BE's protests.]] This is an option which is not irreversible, because it is not, it is deeply marked and socially relevant. The second reason is that, if this is not the case, there is no central concern about the text of the presidential veto. Mr President of the Republic, and I quote this, says: « The opinion contained in a medical report may help consolidate the (...) choice, without pre-determining », leaving « those who choose the maximum freedom or autonomy for possible recompensation of their option(...) ». Now, in our view, this thesis is as valid for children under 16 and 17 years of age as for those over 19 or 20 years of age. Should some and others be helped to consolidate and deepen their choice, or should it not?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u53	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u54	Fourth and last note: this veto by Mr President of the Republic is the best proof that, in this respect, the PSD proposal is, and continues to be, the most balanced, the most moderate and correct. The Government, the Left Block, the PAN and the Socialist Party, despite having been forced by the veto to escape radicalism and the dangers of their initial idea, and so now they have picked it up, even if insufficiently, they are still far from giving the sensible and complete answer that was required. So I conclude by saying, Mr. Members, that the PSD will always be next to positions that ensure logic of genuine, serious and healthy social construction. This is not the way your proposal goes, and therefore they will always count on our obvious, determined and convincing opposition. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u55	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Moreira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Who has now heard Mr. Carlos Peixoto could be convinced that the PSD voted in favour of the 2011 law. He voted against! PSD and CDS have always been against trans people, never been on the side of self-determination. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u57	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u58	We're here to re-evaluate the presidential veto and the PSD, clearly, we haven't read the presidential veto. What the President of the Republic says in the third, fourth and fifth paragraphs is that he understands the reasons for being this bill. It says it calls for re-evaluation only at a specific point, Mr. Carlos Peixoto, and the specific point is that of minors. And with regard to these minors, he says that, and I quote: «The reason for being such a request is not related to any qualification of the situation in question as pathology or abnormal mental situation, which is not, (...)», but to considerations that have to do with the freedom of the person making this decision, which is not a choice, Mr, is the identity of the people who know who they are and are tired of being the State telling them who they are. That's what this is about. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Looking at the veto, we found that Mr. President of the Republic acknowledged the self-determination of trans people from 18 years of age, recognized the self-determination of trans people from 16 years of age, asking for a medical report, rather than a mere attestation, a medical report that attests to the freedom of decision-making and non-pathologizing—this is what Prof. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, President of the Republic ; requested, no more request—to recognize the protection of intersex children, which the PSD wanted it not to be enshrined in this diploma,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u59	And he's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u60	... acknowledged the rights of young trans, girls and boys, in schools, their social name. All of this has been assured by the President of the Republic. However, the PSD submits amendments as if there had not been a discussion on this diploma. It ignores the presidential veto and submits an amendment as if we were still under the 2011 Act, a proposal for a pathologizing amendment, ignoring the presidential veto and subjecting both the elderly — contrary to what the President of the Republic asks — or the minors — once again, contrary to what the President of the Republic says — to a medical assessment procedure attesting, I quote, "the inconformity between the gender identity and the sex with which he was born".
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u61	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u62	I mean, again destroying the self-determination of gender identity, what is recognized by whom? For the President of the Republic and for the European parliamentary group of which PSD and CDS are part, which is extraordinary! [[P.S.'s applause.]] What is absolutely extraordinary is that we have a more conservative right in this Parliament than the President of the Republic, who has recognized everything I have just said, more conservative than the parliamentary groups of the European Parliament to which they belong and which continues in this obscurantism that no one is following, in a line of orientation against the trans people who are here looking at what you are saying and who do not understand how they continue to insist on one line, that of 2011, which you have already voted against. Therefore, do not tell these people again, especially a mother with a rare courage who is here with her son, who have ever been on their side. Don't! They've never been! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u63	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u64	That is why the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PAN presented this proposal, exactly in line with what was required by the President of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u65	And...? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u66	...knowing that, although, of course, the bill does not stay exactly as it was at the beginning, it is a historic victory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They've finished the pathological medical reports, the offense of being the state to tell for yourself who you are. It's over! Intersex children are protected. Young people and young trans are dignified in school and in their daily lives. And, we repeat, victory is not ours, it is flesh and bone people, a lot of it present here, who has already had patience that comes! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u67	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD brings here a proposal that requires a clinical evaluation in any circumstances for this decision-making, more specifically a document that proves the medical assessment resulting from interdisciplinary team attesting to the existence of gender identity mismatch with the sex with which it was born. And she insists that it is not against the self-determination of gender identity! Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD decide: one thing is exactly the opposite of the other. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Self-determination, as the name itself indicates, and can prove it in any dictionary of Portuguese, means « the action to decide for itself ». That is exactly the opposite of what they propose. In addition, to require a report that attests to the discrepancy between gender identity and sex presupposes the evaluation of identities, which is something that clinically, medicine—as in fact it was well expressed, quite clearly in the extensive hearings that we did, in the field of expertise, to several medical specialists and to several clinical specialists—it is something that doctors do not do. Identities are not evaluated.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u69	So, what do you want the certificate for? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u70	Finally, I would like to recall, in relation to the PSD proposal, the announcement of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) withdrawing trans identities from the list of Mental and Behavioral Disorders, confirming the depathologization already recognized by the international and national medical and scientific community. The PSD can, in fact, be long behind the understanding of the President of the Republic on this matter. Even Mr President of the Republic states that this is neither a disease nor a mental disturbance, and recognizes the right to gender self-determination. Maybe it would be good for the ladies. Members and Members of the PSD have reached the 21st century. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The gender identity law of 2011 against which the PSD voted represented an indisputable advance in respect of the rights of trans people, but it is today, we know, a outdated law, based on a conservative and still pathological conception of trans identities and that offends, therefore, the fundamental right to self-determination of identity. The depatologization and recognition of gender self-determination, as a fundamental right and as an essential condition for the free development of the personality, now deserve international recognition, being expressed in Resolution No 2048 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and, as I said, also now by the World Health Organization, which, on 18 June, announced the withdrawal of this issue from the International Classification of Diseases (ICD). Recognizing the right to gender self-determination of trans people is not a transcendent, extraordinary idea and much less a whim or fashion. It is a question of recognising — and that is self-determination — that each person knows and feels, within himself, who he is, and that no one needs third parties to confirm whether they are men or women, boys or girls. Several countries have already taken this step, Denmark, Malta, Sweden, Ireland and Norway. On 13 April, Portugal became the sixth European country to dedicate the right to self-determination of the identity of trans people, by approving here, in this exact House, the possibility of changing its name and sex in the civil register and consequently in its personal identification documents, without the protection of third parties and without a diagnosis of identity disturbance. We went further, extending this right to young people from 16 years of age, knowing that gender identity is manifested at a young age and that it is usually from adolescence that the difficulties faced by young people are accentuated. The President of the Republic has vetoed this law. But it is important here, once again, to reinforce what has already been said, that the President of the Republic has vetoed a very specific issue of the law. The veto focused solely on changing the name and sex in the civil register for young people, for minors between 16 and 18 years of age... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u71	... and the President acknowledged that trans-identities are neither a pathology nor an anomalous mental situation — these are the words of the President himself. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The President thus endorses depathology and gender self-determination. The concerns expressed in the veto concern the need to ensure greater consistency with the choice in question and thus to ensure greater security in decision-making. The proposal we are bringing here today is in line with Mr President's concerns and represents the best possible balance between these concerns and compliance with the depatologization of trans identities and gender self-determination. We propose the inclusion of a report, for young children, which, without passing through an assessment of identity disturbance, attests exclusively to their ability to decide and free will, informed, clarified and thus duly thought-out, giving freedom to resort to doctors or psychologists who understand. The position of the Left Block is known. We understand the self-determination of gender identity as a fundamental human right, which should be recognised to all people, regardless of their age. But the solution found here, not being the ideal for the Left Block, still ensures gender self-determination for those aged 18 years and configures an important step towards the autonomy and self-determination of young people from the age of 16. Let us hope that, once again, there will be a clear sign in this House that Portugal has the right to self-determination of trans people, already enshrined in various countries. And I remember that this isn't about any kind of sexual reassignment surgeries here, but only about the change in identification documents, name and sex. So we're talking about a purely civil act. We also hope that the President of the Republic will take this step and put himself next to the trans, young people and their families. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, The Greens and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u72	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP has examined in detail the basis for the return of this Decree by the President of the Republic. We felt that there were conditions for finding a joint solution that welcomed Mr President's concerns about the trans-age minors, but with a very clear red line: the solution could never push them into the same criterion of the law currently in force, which imposes an extremely stigmatizing diagnosis and places their identity in the field of the disease, a principle that we can no longer — never — accept. This reformulation therefore establishes a compromise relationship between the President of the Republic and the civil society demand: a path towards self-determination of these and these young people. All the rest will be maintained as initially formulated, in relation to the protection of the sexual characteristics of intersex persons and the self-determination of older transs. But as far as citizens and citizens aged between 16 and 18 are concerned, our proposal is then to define that, in order to require a change of name and legal sex in the civil register, they should present a report that only serves and only to ascertain their ability to decide and informed will, without pathologizing references or diagnosis of gender identity. This report may be requested from any physician registered in the Medical Order or from any psychologist registered in the Order of Psychologists, which gives the person concerned the power to choose the health care professional that will facilitate this document. As for the PSD proposal, we are simply engrossed. How is it that a party that approved here, days ago, a vote of congratulations to the World Health Organization for the removal of the trans identities of the International Classification of Diseases is able to put back into a locked and hyperburocracy cabinet and tell them that their identity is a disease? Oh, my God! We don't understand, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! We don't understand! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we want to make it clear that, for the NAP, the ideal proposal was the initial one. But the path is moving and we are aware of the urgency and importance of the promulgation of this diploma for the conquest and guarantee of human rights of all trans, older or younger people. We therefore call for the approval of these amendments, so that people, our people, can relaunch their lives constantly postponed. [[Congratulations from The Greens and from the PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u74	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva spoke on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the second time, in less than one year, that we have a debate on this matter, in this Chamber... [[Protest voices of BE Members.]] I haven't even started talking yet, and the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen are already very nervous. I said it was the second time, in less than a year, that we have this debate, and the reason is simple and easy to explain. The Block, the PAN and the Government have introduced several initiatives to change the existing legal framework for gender identity and, if the initiatives of the Block and the PAN remained on the way, the Government has come here in Saint Bento, but it has collapsed on the walls of Bethlehem and therefore we are here again discussing this matter. We welcomed, at that time — and we remember now — the presidential veto, which, although it was beyond what the CDS understood — and continues to understand — to be essential to beware, allowed that, at least as far as minors are concerned, the issue could be pondered by this parliamentary majority. However, the majority of parliament did indeed put it down. But it has put it as little as possible, and this minimum possible remains for the CDS insufficient. And it's not just for the CDS that this minimum weighting is insufficient. It is also for the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, it is for a multiplicity of health professionals, it is even for a considerable part of civil society. And, see, it is also for the President of the Republic himself, who was absolutely clear, and made it necessary to leave this expressed in his presidential veto, saying that the position of the majority of parliament, to allow the change of sex to minors or older without medical supervision, does not correspond at least to his personal position, which is close to the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences and also close to the CDS. Here, I want to say that the medical report, which, now, PS, BE and PAN propose to be presented by minors between 16 and 18 years of age, attesting only their ability to decide and informed will to be able to change sex, remains unsatisfactory for us. And it is for a simple reason that books, science and experience do not lie: the process of autonomy and maturation of the human being is progressive and is explained in several stages, very well defined and not yet denied by anyone, according to Piaget. This process has been developed since we were born, absolutely dependent, up to a cognitive level that allows us to decide, freely, clearly and independently. And that kick, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, although they want to say otherwise, it is not actually the age of 16 that reaches. There is sufficient scientific and medical evidence that at the age of 16, we are not yet able to decide matters as decisive and as definitive as sex change. In fact, there are even those who say that, today, maturity is attained, only and only, not at the age of 18 but at the age of 24. Therefore, for the CDS, it is absolutely unthinkable that, with or without a medical report, the minor may make the decision to change sex. It is a life decision, with consequences with which the minor cannot and should not be confronted. If most understand that at the age of 16, she is no longer a child and she has reached the cognitive level of adulthood, then, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have this debate. We will amend the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which says that children are children until the age of 18. Let's change the law that prevents them from smoking or drinking alcohol before the age of 18. Let's change the law that prevents them from taking the driver's license before the age of 18. Let's change the law that prevents them from voting before that age. Do that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! And we are going to have this debate! If that is what you want to do, if you want to change a whole system, then let's go to that debate. Do it-CL-let's-let's-lo! And do-CL - we'll do it in consciousness. It is that if you understand that a minor can change sex at the age of 16, then there is no reason for the legal majority to be only at the age of 18. This is an incongruence that, for the CDS, is not acceptable, an incongruence that the CDS obviously does not suffer. But, moreover, the CDS still voted in favour of a vote by the NAP, which welcomed the withdrawal of transsexuality from the list of mental diseases. He voted in favour, and voted very well. Transsexuality is not a mental illness. But the same WHO that removed the transsexuality from the list of mental diseases, integrated them into the forum of sexual diseases, and well! Well, because that is precisely where action is needed, that is precisely where there is a SNS that does not answer any, neither little nor much, neither in quality nor in quantity, nor in good time, to the problem of transsexuals, and everyone in this House knows that. And this is exactly one of the points that the CDS emphasizes, and that is also why, for the CDS, the medical report that attests to a gender identity problem is vital for changing the sex of older people. Civil registration, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a public act, which is based on universal criteria and which is used to provide the legal security system. The problems of gender identity cannot and should not be addressed by the conservative, who has no way of conferring them and attesting them. Gender identity problems can only be attested by a doctor who confirms this to the conservator. That is the only way to maintain the indispensable trust and legal certainty of the civil registry which, otherwise, does not serve strictly anything. This said, keeping all the problems that the CDS had identified and that remain, I wanted to leave two notes so that there is no doubt: Firstly, the fight against discrimination, any form of discrimination, and the intransigent fight for the principle of equality is one of the most structural principles of the democratic rule of law, and that is what we should be focused on. Transsexual people are still target of the most varied forms of discrimination and we should be focused on it in schools, we should be focused on it in health, we should be focused on it in the SNS. That is a problem that we all olympically ignore and pretend not to exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u77	The CDS does not ignore this problem, but that is the problem that you are not responding to. The second and final note, Mr President, to conclude, no less important, has to do with the following: in the last debate we held in this Chamber — and still today I said here Mrs Isabel Moreira,... [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u78	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u79	Mr. President, I will finish. I said that the last debate we had in this House was marked by some intolerance and even a lack of democratic respect for those who have different opinions. Since we are invited to look forward to transsexuals, whether we are accused of labeling mental patients or we are against homosexuals, we have heard of everything in this House. If the fight against discrimination is priority and fundamental, the principle of freedom of expression and opinion is no less fundamental. The CDS never gave up saying what it thinks and doing what it thinks is best to defend what it believes in. It was this exercise of freedom that we have all conquered, that we should never forget — and that, moreover, it allows us, all of us here, to say what we are and who we are and why we fight for — and that sometimes you forget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u80	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u81	So let us respect this principle, respect all who we are and who we are and we will effectively combat discrimination, without insidious accusations that on the one hand are those who defend people and on the other hand are those who are against people, just because on the other hand they think that the way to do things is different from the way you believe in. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u82	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When this House passed the Decree which was the subject of a presidential veto and which we today re-appreciate, on the right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person, the CFP Parliamentary Group has submitted a declaration of vote whose essential points seem appropriate at this time to remind us. The CFP contributed to the approval of Law No 7 / 2011, which enshrined the procedure for the change of sex and of its own name in the civil register as an administrative act. Until then, the change of legal sex and proper name was only possible through a judicial process, in which transsexual persons were obliged to place the Portuguese State in court and to claim an error in the allocation and registration of their identity. In recent years, the consideration of these issues, particularly in the field of medicine and psychology, has advanced, at national and international level, in order not to consider the self-determination of gender identity as something of the pathological forum, and that the CFP values as a guarantee of respect for the dignity of the human person. For the World Health Organization and other scientific organizations in the field of health, the diagnostic characteristics regarding transsexual and gender-differentiated people ceased to be classified as "personal diseases and behavior" and were classified as "sexual health conditions. Do not keep on seeking. ” Today's Order in Body Repreciation reflects this vision, which the PCP accompanies, of transsexual people, separating the clinical domain from the legal domain. The PCP also monitors the meaning of the protection of the primary and secondary sexual characteristics of people, depending on their express consent and clarified any surgical, pharmacological or other treatment and intervention involving changes to the level of the body or its sexual characteristics. The Decree passed here prohibits surgeries that are not necessary for intersex children and babies, as well as the prediction that only surgical or pharmacological interventions necessary to eliminate risks to their health should be performed immediately. This also deserved the agreement of the CFP. The legislative amendments now made to correspond to the evolution of the consideration of these issues at the scientific, clinical and social level, which the CFP followed, continued to remain doubts, when passing the law, as to the conditions for verification of identity as a result of some of the legislative solutions found, which led to the absence of the CFP. Considering the proposals presented in the context of the review of the diploma, the CFP does not follow the PSD proposal, which goes towards a return to the past, clearly exceeded solutions and the seizure of the conception already assumed by the World Health Organization. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] The proposal submitted by the PS, BE and PAN, which aims to answer a question raised in the presidential veto, will have our vote in favour. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] This proposal makes gender change dependent on the civil registration of a medical report in the case of minors between 16 and 18 years of age. For the CFP, it would be preferable for the proposed solution not to be limited to the situation of minors, but to be a requirement of general character, eliminating any doubts as to the possibility of misuse of the legal possibilities now created as regards gender self-determination. Nevertheless, the CFP records developments in the review of this diploma and is in a position to vote favourably. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u84	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the projects on gender identity that gave rise to the Decree politically vetoed by Mr. President of the Republic were discussed, the Greens stated here, in the plenary, that they work for the right to self-determination of each person, for the right to identity of each person, for the right of the person to be what he or she is and not what he or she is not, because we all have to work for the right to happiness of each member of our society. In the meantime, this Decree was vetoed by Mr. President of the Republic, who supported this veto in the light of the importance of a medical report for a minor, aged 16 or 17, to change his name in the civil register so as to be identified with his actual gender identity. At the time, the Greens said in reaction to the veto of the President of the Republic that they were willing here in the Assembly of the Republic to confirm the Decree as it was, because they considered that issue, raised by the President of the Republic, had been duly considered in the legislative process. What is proposed, however, and the process as it has been, is that there will not be a report attesting to the disturbance of gender identity, placing the decision on a third person and not on the same — with which the Greens would obviously not agree — but a report on the authorship of a doctor or psychologist, only for cases between 16 and 18 years of age, to attest only to the ability to decide, to the informed and express will of the citizen. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, in turn, through the proposal it submits, maintains the view that the non-identification of a person with the gender attributed to birth is a pathological, disease issue and therefore insists on a medical report attesting to this gender disagreement. The PSD, through its proposal, obviously contradicts the very orientation of the World Health Organization. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of Parliament today will take an important step towards the right to happiness of many citizens, the right of transsexuals, and once again this step is taken without the contribution of the PSD and the CDS. I speak here by the Green Party. Greens are always on the side of solutions, for progress, for human rights, for everyone's rights, for all citizens. [[Congratulations from The Greens and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u86	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today again the diploma of the self-determination of gender identity, with regard to the veto of Mr President of the Republic, and we propose that this debate be held with elevation, rationally and seriously and in a democratic spirit. Mr President-in-Office of the Council has asked this House, through the exercise of the veto, to re-appronder this regime, and to do so on a specific point, the minors, specifically asking that this re-appronderation be carried out in order to provide for prior medical assessment for citizens under the age of 18. The PSD reviewed this diploma again. We understand and share the concerns of the President of the Republic and have already said so here. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is not indifferent to the constraints and suffering experienced by people who have been born with a sex with which they are not identified and are in favour of their self-determination. We recognize that these processes, by their very nature, are unquestionably complex and suffered for their own families. We appreciate and acknowledge the importance of this right and, Mrs. Isabel Moreira, we are not against anyone. We believe that the recognition and exercise of this right cannot be done at the expense of values of security and legal certainty, which are the basic principles of the organization of society as we all perceive it. [[PSD applause.]] Although no previous medical acts are required, however, in a process and in a decision with the dimension and the social implications it entails, it is essential for us that there is scientific evidence, thorough and credible, a scientific support which any decision of this nature should entail. That is what the President of the Republic says to us, but the appeal to the Assembly of the Republic restricts it to minors. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is imperative for us that this decision be preceded by a document resulting from the interdisciplinary clinical evaluation that attests and guarantees the unequivocal will of the person who requires this change, but above all, that it attests to the veracity of the assumptions of this amendment, the non-conciseness between gender identity and biological sex.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u88	Trueness? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u89	And this can only be done by science and medicine. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on these matters, there has been more ideology and less science. The civil registration consists only of the act which is intended to give publicity and to ensure authenticity of what is conferred, translating the necessary legal certainty into the legal order, and therefore, before the conservator who conducts such a public act, there must be a absolutely clear and unequivocal process leading him to change the name and registration of the person concerned safely without any doubt as to the situation that is put to him. With this, we can't say that we're pathologicalizing whatever it is. If, in fact, gender identity is not in conformity with biological sex, so that such a presumption can be elected, there must be scientific assumptions to ensure both the genuineness of this decision and the free and clear expression of that will. The novelty of the proposal presented by the PSD today in relation to the previous one lies only in the letter of the text, with more neutral terms, so that it cannot be legitimately inferred that we look at the gender identity as if a disease were being treated. No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! We therefore removed the term 'gender dysphoria' by replacing it with 'unconformity between the gender identity and the sex with which it was born', which are only the assumptions for this regime to apply. We understand the reasons that Mr President of the Republic invokes for greater protection of minors, however, because of the matter it seems to us, in any event, that this decision should be scientifically instructed. We are absolutely convinced of this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and the Order of Physicians spoke yesterday about the new drafting of the PSD proposal, saying that it gives a well-framed clinical context, which separates the clinical component of the free and autonomous decision, which is a plus-value, all of this without saying that it is a disease and also highlighting the fact that our proposal speaks in an interdisciplinary team and does not refer to the issue of age. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are absolutely calm. Moreover, we believe that the proposals for amendments to the remaining banks are insufficient in the light of Mr President of the Republic's request that the decision in the case of minors should be preceded by clinical evaluation, which does not coincide with a simple statement. The decision is of such a striking order that it deserves a judgment from the fields of medicine that compete for this assessment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PSD, it is not conceivable that a law of this nature can be so simplistic and omitted on issues that, from a medical and humanistic point of view, are absolutely inconsequential to us. Therefore, our proposal is reasonable, and it is the most reasonable and moderate of this House,... [[Laughs and protests from PS Deputies Catarina Marcelino and Isabel Alves Moreira.]] ... because it does not deny self-determination and ensures the balance between the exercise of this right and the values of social order that are common to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, what we are most concerned about is that we have what is at stake here is the implementation of a fracturing agenda and social transformation promoted by the radical left, in which most Portuguese people do not see each other and in which they have not voted at all and — worse! — to which the Socialist Party will go unhesitatingly, not by conviction but by survival. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u90	You have the floor, for a new intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have now heard Mrs PSD say that her proposal does not deny self-determination, despite demanding that it be a multidisciplinary team telling people exactly what they are and not that they can be people themselves saying what they are. But, moreover, she said that the PS gave in to a fracturing, terrible agenda... so she is calling the President of the Republic fracturing and extremist, because our proposal corresponds exactly to the one that was the President of the Republic's appeal. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] Madam Member, what you are proposing is not what the President of the Republic is asking for; what you are proposing is a pathological report for more than 18 years and for those under 18 years, so it is not in line with what the President of the Republic asks for. The honourable Member called for serious debate, but serious debate meant not missing the truth. The honourable Member said, 'We have never been against these people', but they have always been voting against these people! [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, I want to tell you very quickly that I like the way science accompanies. Piaget was born in 1896, so it is in the right way, but there are more recent studies. I know you haven't been in all the work we've had throughout this whole process. Mr Nuno Magalhães, moreover, was more serious because at the beginning of the work he said: "The CDS will not make proposals for hearings. We know we're going to vote against! Let's vote against, whatever happens! Do not keep on seeking. ” The honourable Member says: "This does not fill what the CDS wanted. “ But what did the CDS want? ” Let's know! The CDS wanted what? When Law No 7 / 2011 was approved, they voted against! If we had proposed the amendment for 18 years with medical reports from multidisciplinary teams, they would vote against it! [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] The CDS says: « Respect our freedom of expression! We have freedom of expression! » Yes, you have, Mrs. Deputy! But has anyone prevented the CDS from being against the de facto union of people of the same sex? Being against same-sex marriage? If you're against co-adition? If you're against adoption? If it's against all this? [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] Has anyone stopped you? Oh, my God! Is Mrs. Deputy suffering? Oh, my God! Are you suffering in your freedom of expression? Oh, my God! Has anyone stopped you? Oh, my God! But do not prevent my freedom of expression to say that—yes! — you have always been against minorities! Always! This is the history of the CDS, and the story is marked, Mrs. Member! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, freedom of expression applies to both sides. Then, as always, they come to invoke: "Oh, the opinion of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences and even the personal opinion of the President of the Republic! ' — it is, therefore, but you did not follow it politically, Mrs Deputy. So once again, we understand: the democratic will is expressed here, it is called representative democracy. We must not follow the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences or the President of the Republic — who did not follow it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is where the representative democratic power is, so we must not follow. This is a thoughtful solution, resulting from what was requested by the President of the Republic, and it was absolutely clear in this debate who is on the side of what the President of the Republic and the one called for for for self-determination — yes! — this is the result of science. If you want to talk in a fight between science and ideology, I tell you that science is more on this side and ideology is more on your side — it is the ideology of Bacoc conservatism! [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u92	Mrs Sandra Cunha, from the Left Block, has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the PSD and CDS seats, I shall refer to the proposed amendment to the PSD bench. What they really propose is neither near nor far in line with what Mr. President of the Republic argued in the veto he made to the initial diploma. What they propose is in line with your own prejudice against trans people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u95	... against the right to self-determination of trans people, which is a right which you are entitled to. Members and Members of Parliament have, for themselves, automatically recognized, without any previous condition, without any previous requirement, but which deny others,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u96	All right! [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u97	...not recognizing that these trans people feel and know who they are, exactly the same as the Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you know who you are.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u99	Therefore, they propose a clinical evaluation that shows the inconformity, the incongruity, or what they want to call it, between gender identity and sex, forgetting or ignoring—or wanting to make this idea pass—that this is no less than a pathologizing diagnosis.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u101	This is a pathological diagnosis and is against the concept of self-determination! As I said recently, self-determination means the act of deciding for itself—self! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u103	... without the need for third parties to intervene in this decision, to assess or determine who people are or are no longer. I also mention that the laws, especially the laws that guarantee individual rights, are made not for the majority, but precisely to guarantee rights to those who do not have them, to guarantee equal treatment to those who do not have them. That is what is meant by this law, it is to go further in these rights, it is to ensure that those who are in the galleries watching this debate have rights equal to others and, now, to those who are here in the Hemicycle.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u105	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, even to end, I will allow myself to take in her words when she says "We respect all what we are and who we are" to invite her, not only to you but also to her bench and to the PSD bench, to turn these words into action and to vote in favour of the right to gender self-determination of these people, for and for these people and their right to live according to their gender identity. [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u106	With no further requests for a word, we close the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 203 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). We therefore move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists of the debate, with the presence of the Government, on the priorities of the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( b ). the Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May on the monitoring, assessment and pronunciation of the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. I would ask for a little silence in the Chamber so that we can continue our work. [[Pause.]] To begin the debate, I have the floor of the Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u107	Mr President, I greet all Members and all Members. Members and also Mr Ambassador of Austria, who is attending this debate. [[PSD and PS applause.]] I begin by thanking you for this debate on the Austrian presidency programme of the Council of the European Union. The Austrian presidency, which began on 1 July, will take place in a particularly complex semester of European life, however, I am sure that, with its experience — this is already the third time Austria takes the presidency — and with the necessary fairness and balance, it will be brought to a successful conclusion. Under the motto « A Europe that protects », the Austrian Presidency highlights three major issues: security and illegal immigration ; prosperity and competitiveness driven by the digital agenda ; stability in the neighbourhood and the approximation of the Western Balkans to the European Union ( EU ). These are certainly three subjects of the greatest importance, but there is no doubt that the next semester will also be marked by the progress that the Union can achieve in four areas. First of all, I refer to the Brexit negotiation, with regard to the exit agreement and the declaration on the future relationship, which is to be reviewed by the European Council until October to ensure the orderly exit of the United Kingdom on 30 March 2019. Secondly, I stress the debate on the multiannual financial framework in order to reach a political agreement, if possible by the end of the year or at least within the current Parliament. Thirdly, I mention the work on deepening economic and monetary union ( EMU ) in all its aspects : Banking Union, European Stability Mechanism ( EEM ) and instruments for promoting EMU convergence and stability. Although this is not one of the priorities of the presidency, we hope that substantial progress will be made here until December, as mentioned at the last Euro summit. Finally, this brings together the pressure to conclude in good time the negotiation of dozens of legislative instruments in such important areas as the Digital Single Market, energy, mobility...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u108	Madam Secretary of State, I apologize for interrupting you. It's not the first time I've appealed to you. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to keep quiet. I believe that if this appeal is justified only when we are discussing between ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, it is even more justified when we have the government to give before the Assembly of the Republic the accounts that are constitutionally required. He therefore asked us to have even more respect when they are in the use of the word external entities to the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD and PS applause.]] Please continue, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. I continue to say that, in addition to the challenges we have with Brexit, with the multiannual financial framework and with the work of Economic and Monetary Union, all this brings together the pressure to conclude in good time the negotiation of dozens of legislative instruments in such important areas as the Digital Single Market, energy, mobility and transport, security and defence and the consolidation of the social pillar. I make a particular reference to climate, since the fourth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will take place in Poland in December this year, where the presidency of Austria will represent the interests of European climate policy. In close cooperation with this theme is also continuing work on the construction of a fair, competitive, safe and sustainable transport policy, in environmental and social terms, the same being true for energy policy. The December European Council will form the horizon for many of these cases and also for the completion of the consultation/ dialogue process with citizens in order to obtain their contribution to the preparation of the next European Union strategic agenda 2019 - 2024. The elaboration of this new agenda will require a remarkable effort of dialogue and focus in all sectoral areas, which should be aligned with the discussion of the Plurianual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027. For Portugal, this is particularly relevant in the design of cohesion policies and in the future of the common agricultural policy after-2020. As regards competitiveness, prosperity and job creation, Portugal is seen in the importance attached to promoting competitiveness by deepening the digital transformation of the economy, public administration and society in general. The Austrian Presidency will organise a high-level conference on subsidiarity. This can be a good opportunity to find ways to give voice to citizens, regions and Member States, reducing bureaucracy and focusing on the Union's efforts in what is really important. Let us now look at the other major priorities of the Austrian presidency, which are somehow interconnected: the issue of security, migration and stability in the neighbourhood. The Austrian Presidency here puts emphasis on security and building a Europe that protects its citizens and guarantees them peace and security, restoring confidence in the Union's capacity. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Migration is the omnipresent theme in the Austrian Presidency programme with cross-references in various chapters and with an autonomous chapter in which a very secure logic is transpared, focusing on the fight against illegal emigration and on strengthening the control of external borders, becoming the focus of highly secondary legal migration. We agree that the effective protection of the European Union's external borders is essential for the management of migration flows, to ensure internal security and also to preserve free movement in the Schengen area. But we will continue to argue that solidarity is a central value in this matter, solidarity for those who ask for asylum, for those who ask for a better and more dignified life, solidarity for those Member States under greater migratory pressure. We will continue to seek a holistic perspective that gives equal weight to the three pillars of this issue: the strengthening of cooperation with countries of origin and transit of migrants, the strengthening of the Union's external border and the strengthening of programmes for the integration and inclusion of migrants in the territory of the European Union itself. We will accompany the Austrian presidency in the debate on possible innovative ideas to find solutions on the issue of refugees, on the issue of irregular migrants, always seeking a link with UNHCR ( United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees), IOM (International Organization for Migration) and with full respect for human rights, international law and applicable conventions. Portugal has supported the completion of the strengthening of the common European asylum system and adopted a constructive approach that reflects a balance between the principles of solidarity and responsibility, showing flexibility in dialogue and openness to compromise. Finally, the Union cannot offer stability, peace and security to its citizens unless it also ensures a secure and stable neighbourhood. Austria stresses here the central role of the Western Balkans as regards the increase in European perspective for the countries of South-East Europe. Portugal recognises the importance of the enlargement process and the contribution the European perspective has to the peace and stability of the Balkans region. But we also need to emphasise the need for a balanced look at the southern neighbourhood of Europe. Its stability and security have a huge impact on European stability and security. Cooperation with the Maghreb countries must continue in an intense and coordinated manner and partnership with Africa is central. Portugal has always prevented the European discourse on Africa from becoming a negative agenda linked to migration and terrorism, stressing the importance of the issues of development, governance and investment in growth, in addition to support for peace and security. I conclude by stressing that, despite such a complex agenda and the challenges ahead, we are confident that the Austrian presidency will contribute to strengthening European unity and spirit. Portugal will be there to make its contribution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u110	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Ambassador of Austria: At the time that Austria assumes the presidency of the Council of the European Union for the next six months, Europe faces a series of challenges that can challenge its cohesion and its ability to continue to assume as the space of freedom, development and prosperity that we all know. It was on this basis that the Austrian Government defined the question of migration as the high priority of its presidency, even adopting as the motto « A Europe to protect », giving particular attention to the issue of security and the fight against illegal immigration. In the next six months the Austrian Government has stated that it wants to build bridges in the European Union and reduce tensions, which seems to us an important task, but a difficult task, much more difficult for a government known for its more restrictive positions on the arrival and stay of asylum seekers in Europe. However, this is a fundamental task, because the Union has failed to find a concerted position for the huge challenge that migration has posed to the 28 Member States. in a Europe where the Euro-Cethics current has been gaining ever more expression, also in Portugal, and knowing that we are less than one year away from the European elections, it is easy to understand that in many countries this will be the main theme and perhaps the only one in the political debate. This may restrict the capacity of some Member States in the negotiations and decisions they have to take on these matters. It is therefore important to know how the Portuguese Government views the approach taken by the Austrian Presidency in relation to the migration dossier. Are we, eventually, answering a question that many are asking about having a tougher position in the European Union in this area? It's good to know. It is important that, knowing the results of the last European Council and the enormous difficulties of understanding in this area, it is important to know what the government's limit is in order to ensure the safety of European citizens without compromising the aspirations and rights of all those who reach European borders. Another issue of great relevance relates to the negotiation for the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union, which should or should be concluded in March 2019. In recent days, developments in the British government have shown that this is a process that is far from being closed and that will have important consequences for the European space. Regardless of the decisions which the United Kingdom is taking, it is unfortunately beginning to speculate again about the possibility that there will not be an effective agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom precisely when the negotiation process was called for to be speeded up so that the deadlines for the agreement would be met. This is therefore an even more important and complex dossier that will have consequences for the future of the European Union's economy, trade, security and defence. It is therefore imperative that the Austrian Presidency assume this issue as its primary issue. For us, it is essential that the Portuguese Government, in its various plans, accompany these negotiations in order to safeguard our interests in relation to the United Kingdom. But allow me, Mr. Members, however, point out that there are some 400,000 Portuguese living in that country and that the Government must be given the necessary support and follow-up to the exceptional situation in which they live. People must always be our main concern. Moreover, in view of the possibility of no agreement, it is important for Portugal to prepare a plan, as the Secretary of State has already said at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, to which we may call a plan B, to which we may call a contingency plan, but a plan to defend the interests of our community living in the United Kingdom and which, when there is no agreement, wants to stay and live there. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Austria, considering its central position in Europe and its own history, advocates greater integration of its neighbours from the Western Balkans into the Union and defines this matter as one of its priorities. He stressed the importance of stability in that region and even defended a pre-accession of these countries to the European Union. However, it never refers to a country, also important, which is Turkey. It was good to know how the Portuguese Government analyses and evaluates this option of the Austrian Presidency. I would also like to refer to the Plurianual Financial Framework, one of the most important cases in our country. This is a matter of great importance for Portugal, which has seen in the European Commission's proposal for the Multiannual Financial Framework by 2027 that support for fisheries, agriculture and cohesion policies should be reduced and the Government must, of course, take particular attention to future developments here, and we, of course, hope that the Austrian Presidency will have the capacity to find solutions in this area. We also take advantage of the Government's views on this case during the Austrian presidency. This is a presidency which I have already mentioned takes place at a time of great importance for the future of the European Union. Many, certainly here in the debate we will be aware of, have doubts about the Austrian capacity to lead a set of key negotiations due to positions taken by their government officials in the past. However, the commitments already made in various areas allow us to believe that these doubts will be overcome for the sake of Europe and for the benefit of Europeans. Now, Madam Secretary of State, and speaking in compromises, allow me to address here a question, which is the following: still today, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, in an interview with the Renaissance Radio, said that in the future there may be a new agreement with the left-wings, which should mean — and I quote — "a further step in foreign policy and European policy". In anticipation of the debate that will be set up here, I would like the Secretary of State to explain to us and in these lines what it means "a step forward in the field of foreign policy and European policy" especially with the parties on our left. We are very curious to know what you will eventually tell us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u112	It is Mrs Isabel Pires's turn to intervene in the Left Block. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u113	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mr Ladies and gentlemen: The Austrian presidency of the Council of the European Union is about to begin and unfortunately the scenario that appears could not be more gloomy. The motto of the Austrian presidency is 'A Europe that protects', but it is a motto that is based on the idea that the alleged crisis of refugees and migration must have a tough response on the part of the European Union and the first priority of this presidency, and now, the most emboldened, is the security of borders and the fight against illegal migration. A parallel must be made between the terminology and the political choices of the Austrian Presidency's presentation document and the conclusions of the last European Council. Illegal migration, centres of migrants, security of external borders, threat, are some of the most often repeated words or expressions, both in one of the documents I have referred to, in a dangerous way and which finally open the door to kiss all that the countries of the Visegrad group, Italy and Austria have been asking so far: people from European territory are expelled, the problem is placed away from the territory, following the maximum of 'far from the sight, far from the heart', or, in this case, far from any political responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u115	Madam Secretary of State, for the beginning of the Austrian presidency, the statements, news and information which have been published on Austria's migration claims are worrying and it is important to clarify what the Portuguese Government's position on them will be. Yesterday a preparatory document was announced, which circulated several permanent representations of Brussels, which pointed out, and I quote, "fundamental weaknesses" at the external borders of the European Union and advocated radical actions to prevent access to Europe by men from, and I quote again, "regions characterized by patriarchal systems, hostile ideologies to antiquated freedom or religious attitudes". I would like to inform you that patriarchal societies are also European societies, in their large majority,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u117	... and we are increasingly witnessing the escalation of what they call « hostile ideologies», also in European governments. We are therefore faced with terminology which should not be used, which we reject at all and indeed look at the Austrian coalition which has an extreme right party. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Therefore, we have the strengthening of a narrative that uses the most common fears of any society, the fear of the other that is apparently different, to make politics in each country. We have seen this happen in historical times and see it again, imperviously and serenely, it is not acceptable and we believe that the Portuguese Government cannot be pleased with this kind of position at any formal time in this presidency. In addition to these issues in the political discourse, in the public discourse, there has been news since the beginning of the week that reports on the preparation of a document containing the Austrian proposal for so-called "migrant centres" outside the territory of the European Union. This document would serve as a basis for the informal meeting of interior ministers taking place today. The proposal is that, in the case of a negative final decision in the application for international protection, the person concerned should leave the European Union and then one of the two things happens: either it is transferred to its country of origin or to a third country. in this case, the third country shall be responsible for the person, after an agreement that complies with European standards. Question: What are these European standards when not even European countries can have the slightest respect for human rights or international law? You don't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u119	Moreover, this implies the construction of containment fields outside European territory. We are at the top again: far from sight, far from political responsibility. It is therefore not acceptable to the proposal that Austria is making and that it was already an old proposal by Austria itself. We are therefore faced with proposals, and we find that they are proof of the fears and warnings that we have been putting on the path of European policy for migration, but also of a more general vision, which is being built, of Europe fortitude, which has always been idealised by some but is now being put into practice with the support of all. And I say of all because the conclusions of the last European Council gave the support of all the countries of the European Union to this kind of policy. from the reading of the official documents of the Austrian Presidency, we realize that there is indeed this concentration of elements that have to do with the most secure aspect of the European Union. It does not fail to reveal the true nature of the European project that the speed with which it advances in the proposals for militarization and security of external borders — and possibly, in some way, of internal borders — is based on the arguments of the migration wave and the alleged invasion, which does not exist in any way. We are faced with the use of false arguments, which have been the basis of xenophobia and extreme-right movements and are precisely the same arguments that are being used by countries of the European Union to justify progress in permanent structural cooperation, in strengthening investment in NATO, to justify the fantasy of the need to create ever more closed external borders. Madam Secretary of State, to conclude, the Left Block does not accept or support any of these positions, nor any of the terminology that has been used and that we fear will be decided by the Austrian Presidency. The priorities of the next presidency have done everything wrong: closing external borders and possible hardening at internal borders; policies for the expulsion of people and selection of those who can or cannot remain in European territory (where have we seen this?) ; payment to third countries to do the work for the European Union; attempt to give false importance to the issues of the euro rule of law or policies or convergence, when the next multiannual financial framework only responds to militarization and forgets cohesion. Finally, a set of political priorities that ultimately undermine the proclaimed values of solidarity and respect for human rights. Mr Secretary of State, from the latest conclusions of the Council and the documents existing from this presidency, these values have ceased to have any practical application by all the countries of the European Union which have accepted these terminology. So the question for the Left Block is whether the Government is going to use the veto power it has — it should have used before it signed the conclusions of the last European Council — whether it will have the courage to carry out what it has said about the defence of solidarity, the defence of human rights and whether it will or will not deal with what is the political proposals of the Austrian Presidency. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u120	Mr Vitalino Canas of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Austrian general elections of October 2017 were followed with some expectation and, as often happens now, also with some apprehension. There have been fears of the victory of an anti-European party, and even fundamental anti-values of Europe, populist and rooting the xenophobic. This party, FPÖ ( Freiheitliche Partei Österreichs, ), did not win, but remained close and somehow forced the traditional parties of European construction to stick to their agenda, particularly anti migration. Parliamentary composition was a coalition government, incorporating the so-called FPÖ. The signal of the times, which in 2000 had been the basis for the European Union's harsh reaction — the entry into the FPÖ government, at the time led by Jörg Haider — was this time only cause of timid expressions of concern. The European Union's rotating presidency programme for the second half of 2018 was therefore naturally awaited with interest, but also with some reservations. We know that the Austrian presidency is taking place in a crucial period. In October, the files relating to Brexit, exit agreement, transition agreement and framework for future relations are closed. The new multiannual financial framework is expected to be stabilized during this period. Issues related to the completion of EMU ( Economic and Monetary Union ), the European Union's agenda as a global partner and migration policies are now critical. Looking at this programme, we note that those who designed it did not or did not want to hide some aspects that should deserve careful vigilance from the defenders of the European project and, when necessary, committed to opposition. In general, the program is built around a strategic option summarized by scenario four of the White Paper on the future of Europe : Doing less with greater efficiency. It remains to be debated that a programme of a rotating presidency of the European Union, which should be a consensus-maker programme, will go without palliatives to such a marked and perhaps minority orientation. I would like to leave now on behalf of the Socialist Party the statement that we do not see this orientation of the Austrian presidency of the European Union and we call for the presidency to not give way to the temptation to withdraw immediate consequences, in particular at the level of the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework for the subsequent period of 2020. Unsurprisingly, migration issues are central to the programme, including the issues of environmental protection and combating terrorism and radicalisation. This priority is expressed in numerous points of the programme, under varying perspectives and measures of a different nature, but always with a restrictive tone, insensitive to the human and humanitarian dramas surrounding Europe. We shall refer to this in another intervention by the Socialist Party, later on. In terms of foreign and neighbourhood policy, almost exclusively priority is given to the Western Balkans, its stabilization and integration into the European Union. As Portugal has traditionally achieved enlargement and supports the integration processes of the six countries of this geography, we note that the priorities of European foreign and neighbourhood policy are far from being aligned with that. The few lines devoted to political cooperation with Africa show, on the other hand, an excessively narrow view of the interests of the European Union as a global partner. The alleged proximity of the Austrian Government (or at least some of its members) to Russia seems to generate a relatively ambiguous view resulting from the programme. On the one hand, there are no references to the illegal annexation of Crimea, the hybrid war in Donbass or Russia's increasing aggression in cyberspace and strategic areas. On the other hand, it stresses the dimension of dialogue with Russia. Not being this negligible dimension and deserving of our support, the excessive transition to Russia can lead to, and arouse, some repairs. Despite what has been said so far, justice requires that some fears as regards a possible departure from the European project are not confirmed. The programme contains unequivocal messages of adherence to it and of signaling its absolute and irreplaceable value as a factor of stability, peace, progress and security of those who live in Europe. They deserve some of the stated objectives: strengthening the European Union, restoring citizens' confidence in the European project, improving confidence among Member States. There is also a commitment to the completion of the banking union, particularly with regard to the establishment of European deposit guarantee insurance. However, I cannot fail to mention the limited ambition with regard to other aspects relevant to the completion and calibration of economic and monetary union. References to the need to strengthen common security mechanisms, particularly within the framework of the CSD ( Common Security and Defence Policy ), and in particular the Permanent Structured Cooperation, are also to be emphasized. I also stress the strong support for the initiatives of the European Commission for the sustainable protection of the rule of law in the European Union and in neighbouring countries. This statement, which, at another time, in another context and with another authorship might seem trivial, acquires fundamental meaning at the present time. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, no presidency party without the ambition of success and all presidencies should be able to count on cooperation, loyalty and support as they wish to defend and consolidate the European project. We will not fail to cooperate with the Austrian presidency, in permanent dialogue, with a view to mitigating the most controversial aspects of its programming and reinforcing all that constitutes progress in the implementation of the European project and values. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u122	For the CDS-PP, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Madam Secretary of State, in the negotiation of international treaties it is often said that it is as important what is written as what is outside, because what is left out is where it was not possible to obtain a consensus in that negotiation. It is very interesting that we look at the Austrian presidency's proposal and realize that there is a set of subjects that are not entirely out but almost. There is a great lack of ambition, for example, in the area of economic and monetary union. On the other hand, in about 70 pages of document only in two paragraphs, one is talking about this subject, which is a very relevant issue for the future of the European Union but also for the future of Portugal. We have already seen too many rotating presidencies to pass and speak little of this issue in order to truly realize what this lack of ambition means. Moreover, at a time when growth in the euro area is expected to exceed 2 %, it is totally incomprehensible to hesitation, it is totally incomprehensible to the length of time, the excessive delays in the implementation of the banking union, and in this sense we realize that this reform, which is a very important reform, should be done in a positive economic scenario and not in an economic recession scenario. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u124	In fact, a long time ago the President of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, drew attention to this saying that we cannot be stuck in the distinction between risk reduction and risk sharing and, from that sylogism, not moving forward. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the Austrian presidency is a bit more semantic than real in order not to move forward. And the last European Council, unfortunately in this regard, was very disappointing. So I ask you a very focused question. In view of the Council's conclusions, which calls for the negotiation of the European Deposit Insurance System, and in view of the planned lack of ambition of the Austrian Presidency, what is the position of the Portuguese Government and what will you ask for in the next Council? One issue which is also very reduced to minimum is that of the multiannual financial framework. We know that by May next year it was essential to close this same negotiation and we also know that Austria is a net contributor, in addition to being one of the major beneficiaries of the common market, and we note a lack of ambition in the paper on the multiannual financial framework, so I ask for its contribution on this matter and comment on this. Another issue I want to mention is the one listed by the Austrian presidency as its top priority: the question of migration. Unfortunately, at the last European Council, the inability of the European Union to reach a political consensus and a decision on the subject of refugees and migrations which can, above all, be applied. We even realize that there are some differences in the Portuguese Government itself. The Prime Minister said that, and I quote, «it was one of the most terrible meetings I have ever been in». The Secretary of State, when she came here to Parliament, said that it was only a disgrace of the poor, poor Prime Minister that he was very tired. In fact, it seems to us that this cacophony has become even more vocal today. In the morning, we heard Mr Foreign Minister say that in the future, in the next political agreement, it is essential to attach a number of issues such as those relating to European policy matters, foreign policy matters, NATO matters. Today, we know that the Prime Minister has a commitment to increase the Portuguese allocation for NATO, but the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party have already come to say that they will not approve anything of it in the State Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u125	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u126	Worse than that: after the Foreign Minister came to talk about this matter, the Prime Minister came to deny it, saying that, after all, things are very well so, that it is not worth to irritate the Left Block and the Communist Party, which are very vocal, come here to talk a lot, and that it is better to leave things as they are because what is right does not move. That is why we realize that at the moment the Portuguese Government is deeply stuck, internally, in its questions. That is exactly why I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary of State, what is the Portuguese Government's policy on this matter. Very recently, the newly elected director of the IOM (International Organization for Migration), Dr. António Vitorino, said a phrase that seems very relevant to me and that I am going to quote at this time: "Europe cannot cover everything with the same generosity cloak. It is not also possible to treat economic migrants and refugees in the same way. It is completely demagogic and unrealistic to think that Europe can be the depositary of all the misery of the world."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u128	Madam Secretary of State, I ask very specific questions: what is the Portuguese Government's contribution to this discussion? What is the Portuguese Government's position on this matter? Does the Portuguese Government want to help create a system that can separate what is separate, i.e. economic migrants, who legitimately want to improve their lives, refugees, who are leaving war regions or are not leaving because they lose their lives? Will the Portuguese Government have a more moderate position or will it have a more contented position of the Left Block and eventually the Portuguese Communist Party? What is the position and what will be the contribution of the Portuguese Government in such a matter? This is a very relevant matter and it is essential to realize what the Portuguese Government thinks about it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u129	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Secretary of State has announced, moreover, the motto of the Austrian Presidency of the Council and referred to a Europe that protects. It is a motto that leads us to ask: Protects from what? Is it a Europe that protects against what threats? What are the threats that are impeding on Europe right now? Mr. Secretary of State, the main threats to the citizens of the European Union are precisely those resulting from the policy of the European Union, the policies of the various sectors of the European Union. Economic and financial instruments limit and expropriate States of their sovereignty and prevent free economic development based on the interests of their populations, either through the European Semester or through deficit constraints, either through the use of the single currency itself or through the deepening of economic and monetary union, or through banking union. Finally, they are a set of instruments that actually work as a garrote primarily for the Member States which, like Portugal, are in a position that is originally more unfavourable than the great powers of the centre of the Union. Therefore, there is a good part of the threats: unemployment, underdevelopment, underfunding of health and education systems, the lack of quality public services that throw populations on a path of civilizational retrogression. That would perhaps be one of the great threats. The Austrian presidency is not only not going to defend, protect or protect, as it uses, this threat as it proposes to worsen. The same is true of the issues of militarism and armamentism, which will increasingly preside over the policy of the European Union, which is indeed a mark of this project. And I am not talking about the announced project and the vain words of the treaties or those that are subsequently announced as the European Union project, the values of the European Union, but of the practice and reality that we are going to see, day after day, that clearly contradict that project that was announced. The lies that were sold to the Portuguese to convince them of the goodness of accession to the Community then and then to the European Union are now more than obvious, because not only are they not confirmed, as we are witnessing today, exactly the opposite. That is, the degradation of a set of indicators, the degradation of sovereignty, the country's greatest external dependence, unemployment, the underfunding of public services. And now we are confronted with a policy that even on the pretext of the departure from the United Kingdom of the European Union comes to cut even more and decrease the Community budget, but also reduce funding for public services through national budgets through the European Semester. All this at the same time as these bodies decide to strengthen the financing for armaments, for an increasingly safe drift, always intimidating the daddy of an external threat whose origin is always hidden. It is precisely this direction of the European Union to destabilize countries outside its borders and limit the rights of its citizens who generate the perfect climate so that the populations of other countries have to travel and so that we are afraid to receive them here. It is therefore the policy and options of the European Union, as well as its neoliberal functioning with an imperialist perspective, which make the European Union manage the problem and give a reply which, above all, is wrong in its territory to solve the problem it has contributed to. The alignment, now as an arm, with NATO demonstrates clearly what is the European Union's option in relation to its foreign policy, given that it is associated with the organisation which is probably the largest responsible for armed conflicts on the globe and therefore objectively competes for the destabilization of a number of countries, creates the need for these migrations and then raises a supposed strength to protect the citizens of the European Union. This is the European Union project. The PS and the Government will probably believe that there is a departure from the project and that they sometimes abandon fundamental values of the European Union, but not the Secretary of State, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the project. Practice is the criterion of truth. You can tell us that there is another hidden intention that does not include an incubator of extreme-right parties, such as the European Union, which does not include the destabilization of other peoples, which does not include the outsourcing of borders, which does not include unemployment and the compression of social and political, cultural and social rights in all Member States, but practice does not reconcile with this kind thesis of a European Union of progress.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u131	Mr. Miguel Tiago, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, more integration and deepening of this path will not lead to different results. We need to choose another way, because we've seen where this is going to go. The Austrian presidency is also very marked by the extreme right, by virtue of the Government itself, that Austria has already a result of the policies of the European Union, and will, of course, do everything in the path of its project to deepen that path. And we have to change our way, because this, unfortunately, Europe has already seen where it leads and is not a good future. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u133	For a second intervention, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u134	Mr. President, Mrs. State Secretary, Mrs. Members: There are three priorities for reforming economic and monetary union for the PSD. First, transform the financial stability mechanism into a European monetary fund. This was a struggle and vision of the former Prime Minister and former President of the PSD, who was of the first to mention this need until 2015 to deal with external and asymmetric shocks affecting European economies. Second, defend a stabilization mechanism. currently, access to stabilization mechanisms at the euro area level is too complex and inefficient. Third, it is urgent to resume the original project of the banking union, which included a deposit insurance and has been successively left behind. Unfortunately, at the Euro summit, the opportunity to make serious progress in the negotiations was lost and the debate was postponed again by December. at that time, the Secretary of State, with the European elections at the door, remains to know whether it will be possible to initiate negotiations on this issue which has generated a large division. Unfortunately, there has been no commitment by the Government to pressure the other Member States to move forward with EMU reform. This is a fundamental issue for Portugal because of the fragility resulting from having a banking system still with many difficulties, contrary to what the government likes to claim, and from having the third highest public debt in the European Union. I would particularly like to address the issue of the European Deposit Insurance System. The outcome of the Euro Summit is worrying for the PSD, because the roadmap for the 2016 banking union foresees that European governments and institutions take steps to reduce risks before starting negotiations on risk-sharing, particularly with the creation of the European Deposit Insurance System. It is only that the debate has not even begun. The debate on the risk measures to be taken into account did not even start and the summit which has now ended and which should have served to reach some conclusion on this matter did not even agree on anything on this subject. In addition, the PSD also shares the concern referred to by the President of the ECB, Mario Draghi : accepting risk sharing also strengthens the financial stability of all. However, the Austrian Presidency puts the full emphasis on its mandate in reaching an agreement on risk reduction and does not expect negotiations to begin to share these same risks. As I have already said, the position of Portugal in these negotiations is not strong, and it is not for two reasons: firstly, because from the economic point of view it still has many weaknesses and the financial system still has very high bad credit, which, in fact, at this time, is above 16 % of GDP; secondly, because from the political point of view, and is even more serious, it is supported in Parliament by parties that do not believe and are even against the European Union, as we have seen today in this debate. Portugal's position on this subject, the Secretary of State, must be much more assertive. Question: What is the Government actually doing to make progress on a topic that is crucial to Portugal? Before concluding, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to point out that the Austrian Prime Minister has presented his credentials to Brussels as soon as he takes over. In the PSD's view, this symbolic moment is a sign and, despite the reservations we have in some areas of this coalition, we also have hope and, above all, we call on Austria to have a constructive position in its presidency. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u135	You now have the floor to Mrs Margarida Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u136	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Austria has chosen for the motto of its presidency « A Europe to protect ». Explanation: meeting the expectations of citizens, bringing the European Union closer to citizens and restoring citizens' confidence, confidence in the ability to act of the European Union, mutual trust between Member States and trust in the European Union as a stabilisation force in the world. The European Union also has a mission to protect its citizens. That was the case in its foundation, with the process of peace and European reconstruction. We live more than 60 years of peace in the European Union. But a Europe that protects citizens in all its dimensions, including access to work and employment, social rights, protect them in the full exercise of their rights, protect them from any totalitarian temptation and protect companies in any trade war. 'A Europe that protects' will have to be all this and much more! Ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will focus on the first of the three priorities of the presidency, i.e. security and the fight against irregular migration. Austria calls it illegal. The time available does not allow me to go beyond the priorities of the presidency. Protecting the external borders is a priority of the European Union, since this alone will ensure the protection of Europeans and those living in the European Union, which is all the more important and urgent, as is the total replacement of Schengen. But dealing with the problem of migration is much more than creating safe borders and creating safe borders than closing the European Union. Therefore, if having safe external borders is a priority of the European Union, it is also - on the one hand, to fight traffickers and, on the other hand, to have solidarity policies that lead to the integration of immigrants and refugees, with policies that create living conditions and integration of those who are or come to the European Union in respect of diversity and European and international law. We also know that immigrants arriving in Europe have been the demagogic pretext for populist movements to feed themselves and grow their support bases, and the results of recent elections show this. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : We know the position of the Portuguese and Portuguese governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u137	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u138	I will now finish, Mr President. The Portuguese Government has expressed an enormous openness, in time expressed its willingness to support Austria, Sweden, Germany, Greece and Italy, and more recently expressed its willingness to agree with Germany. I would like the Secretary of State to share with Parliament the way the Portuguese Government will position itself in the development of this priority of the rotating Austrian presidency of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u139	To close the debate, I have the floor of the Secretary of State for European Affairs, to whom, despite having only 21 seconds, the Bureau will grant some tolerance, because some questions have been raised, but it will have to be a relative tolerance. You have the floor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. I believe that in my initial speech I have been able to deal with the concerns that the vast majority of this House has put here. Portugal is taking care of citizens in the United Kingdom. No doubt! That is one of the main priorities. We are working on a multiannual financial framework that preserves our interests in cohesion and in the common agricultural policy; we are working on economic and monetary union, yes, and for its deepening. This is, in fact, one of our main priorities in which we have done daily work. We are working on a migration policy that sets aside the narrowly secure options, as I said at the outset, and that it bets on the three pillars on which this issue is supported. We will, yes, zeal for humanism, for solidarity in speech and action, and look forward to the creation of a true partnership with Africa, because that is another extremely important point. It is also essential that the Austrian Presidency ensure its fairness and balance as President, thus separating itself from its national interest. That is also the function of the presidency. We will therefore be jealous of humanism and solidarity, because this is the European project in which we believe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u141	With the intervention of the Secretary of State, we have reached the end of point 3 of our agenda. Let us turn to point 4, which consists of the joint discussion of Bill No 82 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 134 / 2015 of 24 July regulating the allocation of social mobility allowance to beneficiary citizens in the context of air and maritime services between the continent and the Autonomous Region of Madeira and between this and the Autonomous Region of the Azores, pursuing objectives of social and territorial cohesion ( ALRAM ) and draft resolutions No 1644 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary measures for critical situations in air connections between the Portuguese continent and autonomous regions ( The Greens) and 1645 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Aerial mobility strategy with an effective response to links between the continent and autonomous regions ( The Greens ). For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the bill submitted by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, The Greens consider that it comes in order to minimize forms of penalization of the populations travelling between the continent and Madeira, and vice versa, and to correct some incongruence and foci of effective challenge. One of the issues that the Greens are dealing with is the reduction in public charges. In fact, citizens entitled to the allowance do not have to forward all the money relating to the amount of the trip, they should have to pay only the corresponding charge on them, and the State will have to contract the rest with the transport operators. In fact, what happens is that citizens have to move forward, and if they allow me the expression, a pile, because it is indeed very expensive, money for later to be redeemed, but many families do not have that possibility to put forward this amount and often leave an absolute restriction on their mobility and mobility capacity. On the other hand, we also point out the fact that this bill helps to prevent people from having to go to CTT posts to receive reimbursement, in very long queues and, how many times, after hours and hours of waiting, they only have the information that the ceiling of that day has already been exceeded and they will have to return to these huge rows the next day. Therefore, this proposal also seeks to de-bureaucratize or speed up reimbursement processes and, in this sense, the Greens believe that, despite the proposal not understanding everything that the Greens consider to be important, it makes a positive contribution to minimizing the penalties that today fall on citizens who do not in fact have this continuity of mobility and are subject to the very negative issues of insularity, in particular as regards transport. Even to conclude, Mr President, The Greens are presenting, for joint discussion with this bill of law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, two draft resolutions which also fall on mobility matters: one, in order to develop a strategy for air mobility with an effective response to the links between the continent and autonomous regions, because we believe that this planning and this strategy is fundamental; another, in order to create extraordinary measures for critical situations in air connections between the Portuguese continent and autonomous regions. If I may, here I would like to highlight a point of the recommendation that the Greens make, which seems to me, in fact, quite relevant to the Government, to ensure that, in critical situations of cancellation of air connections resulting from the closure of one of the airports for meteorological reasons, within six hours of the replacement of airport operationality, an effective mobility response is found for passengers held by each of the airlines linked to the regular transport of passengers between the autonomous regions and the continent. In fact, it is regrettable that we are constantly checking people hours and hours and hours and days and days at an airport without operators finding solutions to their effective mobility. It is also in this sense that the Greens want to contribute, in particular, to improving the quality of life of citizens in our autonomous regions, to tackle these effects of insularity and to effectively ensure the right to mobility that these citizens cannot be deprived of.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u143	Mr Paulo Neves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the Legislative Assembly of Madeira — all its Members — which sends us a bill that the PSD considers very timely for its importance and relevance. It is a proposal that updates the whole process of allocation of mobility allowance to residents in the Madeira archipelago, updating this which by the PSD should have been made for a long time. But it's better to be late than ever! We also welcome the fact that this proposal has been drawn up and approved by all the parties seated in the Madeira Legislative Assembly, which clearly demonstrates the importance of this matter for Madeira and for Madeira. It is a consensual and urgent matter. The PSD hopes that all the parties represented here, in the Assembly of the Republic, will accompany the vote expressed by our colleagues in the Madeira Parliament, because that will be the best way to respect the people of Madeira. In addition, the PSD, at national level, looks perfectly at this proposal, so we will vote in favour and we do not accept any attempt to postpone the vote planned for today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Madeira and Madeira are being the victims of a boycott by the Government of the Republic. A genuine concern for the autonomous institutions, from then on a total lack of institutional respect for the legitimate government of the Maderians, and with the approach of the regional elections, it is even more open. The Government of the Republic, with regard to Madeira, has expressed a strategy that can be summed up in the following way: what it promises does not meet and what the law requires also does not comply with! The Madeira Government alone has assumed duties and responsibilities which, by law, send good sense and send the most basic principles of national solidarity, should be assumed by the Government of the Republic, only they are not. The Government of the Republic expresses a policy of punishment against all Madeirans because the majority voted for a PSD government. The Government of the Republic, led by the PS, does not pardon this legitimate, free and democratic option of the Maderians. The Government of the Republic has found that in its policy to target Madeira the issue of mobility could be the most effective in its strategy. Examples are not missing: the Government of the PS, in the Republic, supported by the Bloc and the PCP, rejects the inefficiency of the TAP in relation to Madeira ; refuses to force TAP to have market prices and not abusive with regard to Madeira ; refuses to support air mobility of goods; refuses to support maritime mobility for passengers and cargo. As for the legislation governing the mobility allowance for Madeira, it has also refused to accept the proposals of the Madeira Government and the PSD throughout this legislature. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude: as we all realize, the issue of mobility for an island region such as Madeira is fundamental. That is why the Constitution of the Republic devotes its attention and defends the cohesion and territorial unity of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u145	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u146	I will finish, Mr. President. We are aware, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening now with regard to Madeira, with regard to the inefficiency of mobility, is very serious, I would say even unacceptable, because it calls into question one of the most noble principles of the Republic : the territorial unit of all Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u147	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Vilhena.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diploma from the Legislative Assembly of Madeira, which we have here today on the table, presents reasons for substance, of important importance, to be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic. However, and before I decide on the diploma proposed by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, two issues must be mentioned that are important to observe this proposal, as well as the other projects that are on the table. The first is that it is never too much to remember that this mobility allowance system for the Autonomous Region of Madeira has replaced a model of direct subsidies for airlines before the liberalisation of the line. This subsidy has served, as it is used today, to provide a specific rate for residents in the autonomous regions, a resident rate with which it has long been intended to guarantee a principle that follows the constitutional principles and the obligations of the State to ensure territorial continuity, which aims to facilitate the mobility of residents in the autonomous regions and correct the structural inequalities caused by remoteness and insularity. The second question is that, after the airline for Madeira has been liberalized, there was a first system of mobility allowance, which has not even caused much controversy, on the contrary. After 2015 it was negotiated between the regional government of Miguel Albuquerque, current President of the regional government, and the then Prime Minister, Pedro Passo Coelho, the current system, which has been the target of most residents' criticisms. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u149	It is about this system that the Regional Assembly calls for amendments, a system that has provided an unmeasured price increase, not only with negative consequences for families as well as for tourism, which is a determining sector for the economy of Madeira, and also — and it is essentially about this that this diploma pays — a complicated, morbid and uncomfortable system, which is the process of receiving the mobility allowance from citizens. Now, with regard to the goodness of the principles underlying this proposal that we are debating today, we agree that residents should pay only the value of the resident rate instead of having to move forward with money that they will receive only after the return trip. However, it must be taken into account that a negotiation process is taking place between the regional governments and the State, which has also begun, it is necessary to emphasize this after this proposal of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira has been presented, which aims to improve the system and ensure its sustainability, giving the regional governments the definition of each model, taking into account not only its sustainability as the specificities of each autonomous region.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u150	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u151	No one would understand that Members of the autonomous regions did not do everything to ensure an increase in the economy, such as their decision-making capacity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u152	Mr João Almeida has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we are discussing today, the authorship of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, is particularly relevant, not only for the realization of principles that it makes, the principle of territorial continuity and non-discrimination of the Maderians and the port-saintenses, but also for the basic work it involved. This bill results from a discussion that was made in a working group in the Madeira Regional Legislative Assembly, with an intense discussion, as has already been said, and had the unanimous approval of all the parties represented there. It is important to remember this because sometimes when we hear the parties speak in the Republic, it seems that they have nothing to do with the same parties that are sitting in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]] On this issue, if it does not reveal this difference between the positions of parties here and the positions of parties in Madeira, it can also not raise a postponement. It is that we are discussing a social mobility grant that was approved in this version and entered into force in 2015 and assumed its analysis, and possible revision, a year later. A year later he ruled the Socialist Party, two years later he ruled the Socialist Party, three years later he ruled the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u154	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u155	...and no analysis or review. Therefore, any argument to postpone further what is urgent is an argument that can only harm Madeirans and porto-santenses...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u157	... and, where appropriate, benefit from the budgetary implementation of the Socialist Party in the Republic. But, of course, between the budgetary implementation of the Socialist Party in the Republic and the day-to-day of Madeirans and Porto-Saintes, I think there is no doubt in the choice to make. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]] What is at stake is very simple, they are simple measures of realisation. Does it make sense that those who have the right to receive back much of what it costs, indeed, a passage must first have a value that many families — families of students, families of patients, who are forced to move away — have to spend, in order to come to receive it later, or does it make sense that they pay only what is part of their social tariff and that the government and the operators then understand, for the rest, that it is not the responsibility of the families but, yes, of the responsibility of the State? For us, it is something so simple, so easy, but so urgent that it cannot wait for the Socialist Party's agenda. We would also like to say here that the issue of air transport is a relevant issue, for everything that has to do with the day-to-day population — and here we are dealing essentially with day-to-day populations — but also with regard to the economy. For us, it is very relevant, for example, to compare what is happening today with the Funchal route to port and the Funchal route to Lisbon, seeing the difference that is having only two operators operating on a route or being able to have three, with the advantages that, from the market point of view, the introduction of more operators brings. Therefore, the appeal we make is not only to the Government of the Republic to be diligent, in order to be able to solve a daily problem of Maderians and Porto-Saintes, it is also to the Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira to work towards that the liberalisation of air transport can effectively... [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u158	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u159	...have all the positive externalities it allows. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u160	Mr Ernesto Ferraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law discussed here, coming from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, aims at reformulation in the form and procedures of the allocation of mobility allowance for residents in this Autonomous Region. I stress the relevant fact that it has been prepared with contributions from the various parties represented there and unanimously in the final vote. The principle that the passenger must pay at the start the final cost of the passenger to bear, without having to pay to the airlines astronomical values and wait for reimbursement by the State, is correct, fair and deserves support from the Left Block. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u162	In fact, the Left Block was, about four years ago, the first party to defend this measure in the region.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u164	Although we recognize that this form of procedure does not make much sense in a context of liberalisation of the airline, increased in 2008, 10 years ago, it is important to remember that this liberalisation has been increased by the regional government, with the support of the PSD, the CDS and the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u165	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u166	... and was justified with the advantage of higher line competition and lower prices. Competition has never arrived and prices have not, on the contrary, fallen. Competition is for the price. If the price is fixed for passengers, there is no way for companies to differentiate from the price, then there is no competition. Being the fixed cost to the passenger and the price charged by the company supported by the State, this is an incentive for companies to impose prices and trigger charges to the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u168	This is for the companies but also for the travel agents, because there is still no limit on this proposal to the amount of committee eligible for the allowance. It's a gap that invites the commission to be emboldened. The mobility allowance is thus an instrument to finance airlines and travel agents, more than to make its final objective inherent in mobility aid prevail, which is to compensate passengers living in autonomous regions directly, threatening the high and permanent costs of insularity and outermost regions. The fixed prices for passengers make sense in a public system, with fixed prices and defined service level obligations, with the operator's obligations, obligation to provide an effective public service and adjust the offer of flights to seasonal variation in demand, i.e. to respond to people's mobility needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u169	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u170	I will finish, Mr. President. After liberalizing Madeira’s route, the same parties, PSD and CDS, confessors and practitioners convinced of the dismantling of public services, manufactured the privatization of TAP, offering you tray the exploitation — repeat, exploitation! — the route of Madeira. Another party, the Socialist Party, says it reversed, but without any decision power. Public roots, private profits! I repeat and strengthen: residents of Madeira's archipelago have the right to pay the price written in law and many do not have to go ahead with the role of the State, with 500 or 600€ to purchase an air ticket, the only way available they have for mobility, to enter and leave the archipelago, which costs the equivalent of a minimum wage in this country. But I believe that seeing all this is within the reach of the Members and the Members. Members so that we can vote on this law and improve it in committee. It is that, strengthening, in the island regions, we depend on all transport, terms or terms and terms at affordable or non-accessible prices. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u171	To close the debate on this fourth item on our agenda, Mr Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP is very much in favour of this bill coming from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. In fact, the CFP in Madeira fought for the constant solutions to this bill. Therefore, we believe that it is a good opportunity for the Assembly of the Republic to properly balance the problems related to air transfers to and from the Autonomous Region of Madeira. We recognize that it is a crucial issue for island populations about the accessibility of air traffic between the regions and the territory of the continent and, as regards the Autonomous Region of Madeira, if this issue is decisive for populations living on Madeira, it is no less so for populations living in Porto Santo. From this point of view, the situation of air transport to and from the island of Porto Santo is unacceptable and needs to be resolved quickly because these populations are double penalized by the difficulties of their air transport. This should therefore be assessed because, in fact, the situation in relation to the airways of residents is that the liberalisation of air transport to the Autonomous Region of Madeira has essentially favoured airlines. In other words, what happens is that the State is financing the airlines that guarantee air transport to the autonomous regions, and, in this particular case, that we are discussing, for the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which means that the companies can inflate the costs of transport, because there is the State to finance them. This is a situation which, from our point of view, needs to be changed. On the other hand, this situation also did not benefit residents, insofar as they initially have to bear the cost of transport, and then wait for a bureaucratic process to take place, on their own initiative, in order to be reimbursed. So from our point of view, this is all the opposite. Of course, it should not be the passengers, the residents, to have to bear initially from their pocket, an amount that they may not even have to be able to finance their passage and it does not seem fair to us that airlines can bear the price that they understand very well and wait for the State to finance them afterwards. We have an opportunity here to correct, to debate seriously a fair system to ensure that residents are able to transport by air, but that it is also not unfair to the State, that it is not a benefit conferred on airlines, at the expense of the Portuguese State, at the expense of the public record. Therefore, we welcome this initiative and, of course, we are fully available so that, in the discussion of the specialty that will take place, you can find a system that is more fair than the current one for residents, both for the Portuguese state. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u173	Mrs. Members, let us turn to point 5 of our agenda, which consists in the analysis of the 2017 Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ). For the first intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I must present the Annual Report on Internal Security, whose data have already been published and disseminated in March of this year. But in any case it should be noted that we had in general crime an increase of 3, 3 % compared to 2016. They have contributed to this increase the crimes of counterfeiting and counterfeiting of coins, the crimes of ridicule and the crimes of fire. Violent and serious crime has decreased by 8, 7 %, with 74, 7 % of this type of crime dealing with theft on the public road, theft by stretch and resistance and coercion by the official. We also have in the 2017 Report an increase in crime in relation to acts committed against ATM ( automated teller machine), in which there was a growth of 73, 5 %, having had its peak in October last year. We also have other weighting factors, including the decrease in juvenile and group crime, the decrease in violence in the context and school environment, the increase in computer crime and, finally, the increase in road sincality. The Government believes that the analysis of these numbers is a key contribution to the definition of correction and prevention policies. Reading those indicators of crime helps us to understand the phenomenon and to fight it. So last year, in October and November, measures were taken on crimes committed against ATMs, common multi-bank machines, and the results are already being achieved this year, with a reduction in the order of 80 %, in respect of this type of crime. Obviously, also in sectors such as youth crime, which, although it is decreasing, is always a weighting factor in government analysis, it is important to accompany, through the Coordinator Group of the Safe School Programme, and to see the phenomena associated with deviation behaviors in school environment. Of course, it is also important to implement corrective measures in relation to road-trafficking. These are some of the indicators which, in general, are those of you. Members already know and therefore I am available to answer the questions you want to put on this report. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u175	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Marques Guedes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u176	Mr President, Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration, Mr. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs. Members: As Mr Secretary of State said, the 2017 Annual Report on Internal Security, although in fact recording an increase of 3, 3 % in crime in general, the truth is that in violent and serious crime it has maintained the downward curve that has been pointing out in recent years. That, of course, is good news and, in addition to being good news, is reason for thanks, from our point of view, to the men and women of the security forces who, on a daily basis, watch, work and strive, often at significant risks, to defend and protect our rights. But internal security is more than crime. Internal security comes from the constitutional right of protection of persons and goods, through public authorities, against any kind of threat or aggression. in this sense, the Secretary of State, looking to the year 2017, it is necessary to record two round failures in this protection, of course, with tragic consequences. One of them, the Secretary of State mentioned here and has to do with road safety policy, the other has to do with, as we all unfortunately know, civil protection. We live, in the area of civil protection, in 2017, unparalleled tragedies that have mobilized the country and that we must continue to mobilize and hold everyone accountable for the changes that prevent it from happening again what happened in 2017, failure, failure of the state in protection and relief to the populations. In the area of road fatality, in fact, 2017 was also with tragic consequences — more than 500 fatal victims on the Portuguese roads — a year of reversal of the trend, with more than a decade, of reducing the number of fatal victims. We can find several reasons for this: disinvestment in public awareness campaigns, less attention to the problem by the authorities. I do not know, Madam Secretary of State, what I do know is that these data particularly concern the Government and the authorities for the need for changes in attitudes, change and innovation in policies so that this trend in the last year does not have continuity in the years that follow—and already in the current year, first of all—and that, on the contrary, we return the downward curve in relation to the number of fatalities on the Portuguese roads. But the Annual Report on Internal Security, the Secretary of State, also shows other matters and is also about them, in addition to those I have already mentioned, which I would like to ask the Government. First of all, the Annual Internal Security Report shows a decrease in effectiveness in both the PSP ( Public Security Police ) and the GNR ( Republican National Guard ). If this decrease in absolute numbers of effectors in both security forces, which occurred in 2017, we join projections due to the average ageing of the effect of these same forces, there is in fact a matter for concern and matter for medium- and long-term policies by the Government to reverse this trend. Secondly, I refer to the apparent disinvestment in the strategy to protect victims of domestic violence. The report shows us that there was a stagnation in investment in areas such as the care rooms for victims of domestic violence throughout the country. This stagnation contradicts an evolutionary process that had come from previous years and that it is urgent to resume. I stress a third aspect of the weak implementation of the Infrastructure and Equipment Programming Act for Security Forces and Services ( LPIEFSS ). In the first year of this Law, RASI points to a performance of no more than 63 %. It is true that this was the first year, it is true that the first year is the start of the measures and there are measures that are only reflected in the following years, but it is a renewed attention that the Government is required to fully implement the investment programme approved in this House of the Republic and that it has a multi-annual logic. Finally, I would also like to refer to the non-regulation by the Government of access to information traffic data by the Information Services, which is a fundamental and essential tool in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which can of course be a priority for this Government and for this Assembly. I hope, Madam Secretary of State, that the Government will look at the data of this RASI and take appropriate measures so that everything that demonstrates negative in 2017 can be corrected and we can have better data in 2018 and in the following years than those presented in this Annual Report. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u177	Mr António Gameiro spoke on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u178	Mr President, Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration, Mr. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs. Members : We came here today to discuss the Annual Report on Internal Security and, from the outset, we draw a conclusion: Portugal is a safe country, it continues to be an increasingly secure country. This government made Portugal grow in 2017 as it had long not grown. Unemployment has dropped dramatically from 12% to 7%, and there are more people outside the poverty line, and there has therefore been more wealth distributed. The most needy or not Portuguese have more income available today and therefore there is less juvenile delinquency. Security forces have seen their frameworks, facilities and means strengthened by the government. The GNR, the PSP, the Judicial Police, the Maritime Authority, the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ) and the coordination of the internal security system itself see their increasingly strengthened means. The government is doing its part, its obligation, which leads to the confidence of the Portuguese and our visitors in our internal security system. Today we have heard more than 40 million for the provision of services in the National Internal Security Network (RNSI ), an order to recognize more holidays, social rights and the reversal of certain duties and rights to security forces, more cars for the GIPS (Intervention Protection and Relief Group), plus 28 helicopters, by direct adjustment, which today have been made available for internal security and for civil protection. So in the last two years, we have reached the lowest rates of crime since there are records, I repeat, the lowest rates of crime since there are records. In fact, even given a slight rise this year, general crime is the second best of all recorded times. But the violent and serious crime continued to decline and did not go down little, dropped 8................................................................................................................. Today we have a central downward trend of violent and serious crime in Portugal. But other reductions need to be highlighted: theft in residences, which dropped 14, 4 %; theft of motor vehicle, which dropped 11, 1 %; theft of commercial or industrial building, which dropped 11, 3 %; domestic violence against spouse or analogue, which dropped 0, 8 %; driving of vehicle with an alcohol rate equal to or greater than 1, 2 g, which dropped 4, 8 %; theft by pickpocket, which dropped 3, 9 %; and the computer joke, which dropped 3, 5 %. Portugal has therefore been systematically considered, in several international evaluations, the third or fourth safest country in the world, which is, for us, essential to give confidence to our populations and to the millions of tourists who visit us. The evolution in the area of internal security is crucial for our quality of life, but also for the evolution of the Portuguese economy. So today we can be glad that, as Mr Marques Guedes stressed, the security forces are doing their part, but the government is also doing its role and an increased effort, through the Infrastructure and Equipment Programming Act for Security Forces and Services, to invest more and more in this critical area for the development of our country. It must therefore be said that, if we have the lowest rate of violent and serious crime ever, if we have the second best rate of general crime ever, we must congratulate the Government and the security forces for what they have done by the country and continue this path, as many other governments have also done — we must emphasise — so that we have these indices. But there are still two or three aspects I would like to mention. In fact, road fatality has increased, but when we look at the numbers in particular, we see that the performance of the security forces has led to fewer drivers being detected as well to lead under the effect of alcohol. So if today we have a better road network, if today we have more patrolling and more crime prevention on the road but there have been more accidents, then we actually have to study in the future what factors are leading to this increase. Finally, I want to say that in forest fires, road safety, crime against people there have been small increases. Let us draw the Government's attention that, during this year and next year, as this mandate lasts, look at these three points so that, next year, all other parliamentary groups can follow with greater emphasis this satisfaction to see a secure Portugal at the service of people and our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u179	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr Jorge Machado of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Annual Report on Internal Security gives us a set of thoughts and concerns. First of all, one previous point: the 2017 Annual Internal Security Report was publicly known in almost all parts of the media and was only handed over to the Assembly of the Republic. I believe that this is an incorrect practice, that should not be repeated, and that it is important to register, because indeed the Annual Internal Security Report has as its first addressee the Assembly of the Republic. I also want to note the following: the data in the Annual Internal Security Report, as we say systematically, reflect a part of the reality of crime. This is the crime registered, reported, shared, and not the rest, which cannot be subjected to statistical treatment and, to this extent, despite reflecting the possible reality, is a partial reality. Secondly, I would also like to point out that, although Portugal is experiencing a very particular moment of decrease, year after year, of crime, there are two or three types of crime that have a significant increase. One of them has already been addressed is that of counterfeiting of currency, which has increased 264 % — this also means more apprehensions and is therefore a positive aspect, since we have been more active in this reality, and there has indeed been a significant increase in seizures of counterfeit currency; the crime of fire and fire has increased 28 % — a significant increase but also means that there is research activity and punishment in relation to this reality, which is positive; the crime of rape has increased 21 %, which, in our view, is very worrying. There is another set of concerns resulting from the analysis of the Annual Internal Security Report and concerning the actual available in the security forces. There is a widespread decrease in the effectiveness and there is a very worrying situation in PSP and GNR. I would say that the data from the Public Safety Police are even more significant, as there are 697 exits and 285 entries — see page 153 of the Annual Internal Security Report — which represents a very worrying negative balance of entries and exits to the PSP. We have less than 20, 7% of security forces trainers and more than 20, 6% on termination of functions, which means that the necessary measures have not been taken to address the lack of personnel in the security forces and this has beginnings in what is operational, which is the average age and the actual available for operations. I therefore welcome this question from the Minister: what does the Government intend to do to reverse this trend? We also want to keep track of what the Annual Internal Security Report reflects on page 160 on the implementation map of the Infrastructure and Equipment Programming Law for Forces and Security Services. And, Madam Secretary of State, we cannot fail to record with great concern an effective framework for the implementation of the measures proposed by the Government itself in the context of this very worrying multi-annual investment, both in infrastructures, in armaments, in individual equipment or in operational activity support equipment, since the implementation rates of the effectively small investment programme are recorded. As you know, the CFP proposed the creation of an investment programming law, which is essential for having a multi-annual framework and programming what is essential. We believe that it also made sense to have a multiannual training plan to meet the needs of the security forces with regard to the staff framework. As far as investment is concerned, we agree with the law, but we do not agree with the implementation. I think it is necessary to « give the pedal », as our people say, and speed up this budget implementation, which is indeed tiny. And, of course, security forces feel that, in fact, those who listen to professionals, who are concerned about hearing their demands, realize that the issue of investments is fundamental for security forces to work their best for our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u181	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, my compliments to the Under-Secretary of State and the Internal Administration for this good occasion to discuss security matters, although it would also be a pleasure for us to have here Mr. Minister of Internal Administration and to surprise us, even a little, that he is not here. There will certainly be a very relevant reason for the Minister not to be dignified or could not be with us today to discuss these issues. With regard to this matter, and taking a moment in the words of the Socialist Party Member who spoke recently, I would like to say to you, Mr Deputies, that, in this 2017 report, there is something that I am going to omit, in which, moreover, the results of the Government in 2017 are quite evident, which is the subject of fires. On fires it is better not to talk, at first, because, finally, there has never been a greater tragedy, and we know in what circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u184	So let's go to crime. As regards crime, there are positive and negative aspects. Negative aspects: overall crime has increased, inverting a trend of many years. We have an RASI which shows us an increase in crime — plus 3, 3 % — which, for a long time, did not happen. Positive aspects: the fact that the most serious and most worrying crime for people, the violent crime, continues to decline consistently, which is positive and, of course, we do not fail to notice. Why does this happen? from our point of view, this happens, to a very large extent, by the merit of the security forces, who have been able to respond, do their work and ensure this consistent low crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u186	I deserve the security forces, which, once again, in the words of Mr António Gameiro of the Socialist Party, are doing their part because, in our view, the government is doing nothing. And it is easy to demonstrate this, Mr. Secretary of State. For example, there is obvious dissatisfaction and obvious disappointment of security forces in relation to statutory issues. The Government has not resolved the statutory issues of the security forces, has not resolved the issue of career development, has not resolved its own commitments in terms of career progression and evolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u187	The CDS didn't solve the problem either!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u188	There is a dissatisfaction and a functional disappointment, whether with the number of effects, whether with the number and quality of vehicles, or with the equipment, especially with the protective equipment of men who risk their lives every day to ensure our safety. There is dissatisfaction and disappointment with the government's lack of recognition of the conditions inherent in the police function itself. That is why I say that the security forces play their part, and it is true, but the government does nothing. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] I ask you, Secretary of State: where is the new disciplinary status?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u189	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u190	As far as we know, it is not, it does not exist, it did not appear and should have appeared long ago. When I recently regretted the absence here today of the Minister of Internal Administration for a very simple reason. It is, frankly, the Secretary of State who would like to confront him—and, since I cannot do so, to confront him—with a statement he made many days ago. The Minister of Internal Administration said: 'I demand' — or 'I request' — but, in this case, it is indifferent — 'absolute priority to Parliament in the matter of trade union law'. Mr. Secretary of State, I wonder if you're playing with us. They are probably playing with us, because I learned in college—and Mr. Minister of Internal Administration also learned, until he walked there more or less at the same time as I and, moreover, as Mr. Prime Minister, and we all learned more or less the same things — the difference between a bill and a bill. On the other hand, the 1st students. the year knows the difference! in this case, we are talking about a bill, i.e. the responsibility of the initiative, the responsibility of its result, the responsibility of the government! The Government presented a proposal for a trade union law, made by the previous Minister, which was a huge exercise of incompetence. In addition to being an enormous exercise of incompetence, he did not speak to anyone! You didn't talk to the unions, you didn't talk to your majority partners, you didn't talk to anyone! They put the law back here. What does the Minister want, when he says, 'now, the Parliament that solves the problem'? Is it a pull of ears to the management partners, to the parties of the majority? Is it a pressure attempt on the Democratic Social Party? It is not with us, of course, because our answer to the Minister and to the Government is very clear: the law has been mismade, the law has been "made with the feet" — to use a more popular expression — and therefore either you withdraw it and present a law as it should be, or the CDS votes against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u192	Against today, against tomorrow, against with priority and against without priority! So the problem is with the government, it is the government and the majority that have to solve the problem and find a union law that has feet and heads.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u194	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u195	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying only the following: The Secretary of State, where is the airport plan? RASI talks about global security issues, but where is the airport plan?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u196	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u197	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. Where is the regulation of metadata? Where is the cybersecurity regime? You have done nothing on essential issues and you need an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u198	But you have to conclude, Mr. Deputies. The time allocation was decided at the Leaders' Conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u199	I really am concluding, Mr President. I would just like to ask the Secretary of State to congratulate Mr. Minister of Internal Administration. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u200	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Although Portugal continues to register levels of general crime far below the average recorded in the European Union, in fact, even consistently in recent years there has been a decrease in the levels of general crime and of violent and serious crime in particular, it is important not to disregard that there has indeed been an increase of 3, 3 % in terms of general crime in 2017 compared to the previous year. We also highlight the concern over the maintenance of the category of "crime against people" as the second category of crimes, but in particular the fact that domestic violence continues, year after year, to occupy a prominent place in this type of crime. Trends, in this type, that is, domestic violence, also remain: higher incidence rates in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira ; victims mostly of the female sex, being those mostly reported of the male sex ; the degree of kinship is, in most cases, that of spouse/ ex-husband or partner/ ex-company; the occurrences continue to occur most frequently at weekends and nights. Domestic violence therefore persists as one of the main public security problems in our country and maintains a clear gender brand. However, these standards, which are evidenced, year after year, in the various Annual Internal Security Reports, give us precisely the clues to where and how to act. The specialized training of all actors in this area—in conjunction with associations of protection and protection of victims of domestic violence and specialists in the area—in particular those under the protection of the Ministry of Internal Administration, the elements of security forces and services, as well as the creation of teams specialized in the care, monitoring and referral of these victims are absolutely essential for the fight and prevention of this form of violence and, moreover, for the protection of these victims. The participation of these teams and the elements of these security forces and services in local networks is also essential for the deepening of knowledge of the contexts and concrete and local realities, for the exchange of relevant information, for the creation of effective support and protection networks. And that, unfortunately, tells us the experience and reality, not always, not everywhere. in the same way, despite the slight decline, the levels of participation of crimes against children remain worrying. It is true that it goes down, but it is absolutely unacceptable, you cannot continue to have these levels and this number of participations. Thus, the following participations were recorded: ill-treatment or overload of minors — 363 cases; domestic violence against minors — 430 cases; sexual abuse of children — 937 cases. The sexual abuse of children represents, in fact, the greatest part of crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination, followed by rape. This shows that what is being done in this field is not only not enough as it is failing. I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary of State, why, in this RASI 2017, there has been a lack of information contained in the previous RASI and it has to do with the number of domestic violence investigations to which the institute of the provisional suspension of the proceedings has been applied. This information would appear on page 37 of the Report to be located, but in 2017 we no longer have that information. Information also missing — and this has been said continuously — reports on specific numbers of femicides, as well as on data on children who witness domestic violence. We know very well and for a long time that these are decisive information to outline strategies to combat and prevent such crimes and therefore we do not understand how these data are still not collected and processed. The data presented by RASI to us are very worrying. RASI is increasing significantly not only the number of road accidents but also the number of victims. Thus, there were 65 more fatalities, 92 more serious injuries and 2556 minor injuries. As is evident, this is the result of, lately, there is a disinvestment in awareness campaigns, but above all, it is a reflection of the continuous delay in repairing works of many of the Portuguese roads, of which is current example the case of IP3. A final word to express also concern at the decrease in the number of assets of the security forces and services elements reflected in the 2017 Annual Internal Security Report. In fact, there are more elements coming out than those coming in, so we would like to know what the government has to say about this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u202	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u203	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. We know that it is a problem, when the structures representing the elements of the security forces and services continually tell us that we indeed lack police in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u204	To conclude the debate, I have the floor of the Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u205	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Marques Guedes for the questions he has raised and by saying that I share his view that the right to security is a constitutional right and that it is for the State to protect people and goods. Only that this right to protection was born many years ago and not with this government. In your Government, Mr, there was already this constitutional right and your Government had little to say on this matter. [[PSD Member Protests Luís Marques Guedes.]] But I also share your view — and I understand it from your words — that we are also against the privatization of security, as it is defended by some sectors, so in this respect we share the same view and agree. He then referred to road sinequality and fires. With regard to fires, it has been public that the Government and society in general have mobilized around the response to this scourge. As far as road fatality is concerned, I must say, Mr President, that this year's figures have already shown an inversion of this trend and, therefore, there is already a smaller number of road deaths. We will wait until the end of the year to see if this trend remains, and it is certain that, as you know, the Scientific Council for Monitoring the National Road Safety Strategic Plan met yesterday, precisely to make the report on the measures already taken in this area. With regard to the reduction of effectiveness and the union law, and with this I also reply to Mr Telmo Correia, which are cross-cutting matters to the issues raised here, I would like to refer to two aspects. First, with regard to GNR and PSP — the two security forces that essentially concern us, as the SEF has increased the number of effectives — there are two data that have to be accounted for to make the numbers more real. The first relates to the fact that in the GNR, for example, the law that the previous government allowed us to prevent the passage...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u206	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u207	I conclude now, Mr President. As I said, the legislation that the previous government left us with in the area of reform of the GNR elements led to the fact that we had 2000 more effective ones, which came out the previous year, which was reflected in the numbers now presented. But the truth is that they were already on the reservation, out of the effectiveness of functions, so they were not at work. So there is an apparent decrease here, since indeed the number of effects on the street has not changed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u208	Mr. Secretary of State, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u209	I shall conclude, Mr President. I only refer to Mr Telmo Correia, who Mr. Minister is in the JHA Council (Council of Justice and Home Affairs), so he could not be here. In view of the lack of time, I will be pleased to inform the Minister of the questions he has raised and to whom I would like him to have answered and, of course, to send him the answers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u210	After concluding the assessment of the 2017 Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ), we will move on to the regiment votes, starting with the votes in the supplementary script as agreed between the various banks. Only then will we proceed to the votes in the general script. Before that, however, Mr Duarte Pacheco, Mr Pacheco, will give an account of the file he has entered in the meantime. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted, draft resolutions Nos 1761 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions until the end of the first quarter of 2019 ( RA President ) and 1762 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Horta Airport ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u212	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed with the examination of the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 210 presences. Is there any honourable Member who has not been able to register?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u213	Mr President, the 15 Members of the CFP are present, but the electronic framework only records the presence of 14. We will have to see which one of them has not been able to register, because no one can identify the problem of registration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u214	It is also difficult for the Bureau to know that, Mr President. But it is recorded that all Members of the CFP are present, i.e. 15 Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, 211 are present. Ladies and gentlemen, to which shall be added the four presences signalled to the Bureau, of the Members. Deputies Luís Soares and Marisabel Moutela, of PS, and Álvaro Castello-Branco and Telmo Correia, of CDS-PP, which makes 215 Members present, so we have quorum of deliberation. Mrs. Members, then, let us begin, as agreed between the various benches, by voting in the supplementary script on proposals for amendments to the Decrees of the Assembly of the Republic Nos 201 / XIII — Legal regime of the activity of individual and paid passenger transport in vehicles decharacterized from the electronic platform, and 203 / XIII — Right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person. Let us begin by voting on the amendments to the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 201 / XIII. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the PS for an addendum to Article 2 ( 4 ). that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It is as follows: 4 — undertakings developing taxi transport activity may simultaneously develop the activity of TVDE operator, by complying with the applicable licensing procedures and with the provisions of this diploma, affecting this activity vehicles not licensed as taxis, not being considered in any case restricted to a public transport service, nor benefiting from the exemptions and benefits provided for them.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u215	The speciality of the proposal submitted by the PSD for an addendum to Article 2 ( 4 ) shall therefore be adversely affected. that of the Decree. We proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to replace Article 10 ( 3 ). that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The training course referred to in point (b) of the previous paragraph shall apply, with due adaptations, the provisions of the legal training scheme for access to the certificate of taxi driver, including the hourly charge.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u216	Let us now vote on the proposal from the CFP to eliminate Article 10 ( 7 ). that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] The special vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for the addition of a new paragraph 1 to Article 12 shall be followed. the decree, with the consequent renumbering of the remaining numbers. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — Vehicles affected by TVDE activity are subject to a municipal licence, which is allocated within the quota fixed for the taxi transport service by public tendering opened by the competent municipal chamber on grounds of territory.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u217	We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a new paragraph 2 to Article 12. the decree, with the consequent renumbering of the remaining numbers. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The number of vehicles of the quota referred to in the previous number, as well as the proportion of vehicles affected by taxi and decharacterized vehicles, shall be fixed by each municipality, having regard to the representative structures of the sector, the IMT and the metropolitan area or intermunicipal community in which the municipality is inserted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u218	We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a new paragraph 3 to Article 12. that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — Municipal regulations must provide for the decharacterisation and transfer mechanism to the TVDE quota of passenger cars.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u219	We now vote on the proposal from the CFP to replace Article 15 ( 2 ). that of the Decree. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, with votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The prices charged by the provision of the TVDE service are fixed in the application of tariffs to be approved by the office of the member of the Government responsible for the protection of the transport sector, i.e. IMT.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u220	The special vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP replaces Article 15 ( 3 ). that of the Decree. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, with votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — For the purposes of the previous paragraph, the weighting elements and factors that make up the pricing formula are fixed and pre-determined on the basis of the service, geographical area, day and time of use, and the application of dynamic tariffs or other free pricing mechanisms is prohibited.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u221	We shall, in particular, vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a new paragraph 4 to Article 15. that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — The tariff provided for in paragraph 1 must set minimum prices which prevent unfair or restrictive commercial practices, including the provision of services with injury.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u222	We turn to the special vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 15 ( 4 ( b ). that of the Decree. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, with votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] [[(b) an estimate of the price of the journey to be made, calculated on the basis of the elements provided by the user and the tariff to be applied by the service operator.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u223	We are now voting on the proposal by the CFP to eliminate Article 15 ( 5 ) in the specialty. that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] The special vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 15 ( 8 ( e ) shall be followed. that of the Decree. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, with votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] [[It was as follows: (e) Demonstration of the calculation of the price on the basis of the applicable tariff.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u224	We shall vote in special terms on the proposal by the PS to add Article 20 ( 4 ) to Article 20 ( 4 ). that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It is as follows: 4 — The electronic platform operator ensures a price policy compatible with competition law.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u225	We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add Article 23 ( 3 ). that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It is as follows: 3 — The Mobility and Transport Authority may carry out audits with a view to verifying the conformity of the platforms in operation with national legislation and competition rules.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u226	We now vote in special terms on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 24 ( i ). that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It was as follows: (i) Town Hall competent because of the territory.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u227	The special vote on the proposal submitted by the PS, amending Article 25 ( u ), paragraph 2, follows. that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, PS and PAN, against the CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] [[(u) the non-compliance with the prohibition set out in Article 19(5) and with the provision provided for in Article 20(4);]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u228	We shall vote in special terms on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 27. that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It is as follows: Article 27 Counter-ordination Process The application of fines and ancillary sanctions is the responsibility of the IMT's board of directors, IP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u229	We turn to the special vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 30 ( 2 ). that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, PS and PAN, against the CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It is as follows: 2 — The value of the contribution provided for in the previous paragraph corresponds to a single percentage of 5% of the values of the intermediation rate charged by the electronic platform operator in all its operations in accordance with Article 15(3).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u230	Mrs. Members, with the approval of the proposal we have just voted on, the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD, also amending Article 30 ( 2 ). that of the Decree. [[It was as follows: 2 — The value of the contribution provided for in the previous paragraph corresponds to a single percentage of 5% of the values of the intermediation rate charged by the electronic platform operator in all its operations in accordance with Article 15(3).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u231	We are now voting in the specialty on the proposal by the PS amending Article 30 ( 3 ). that of the Decree. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, PS and PAN, against the CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It is as follows: 3 — The payment of the contribution to be paid by each electronic platform operator shall be made monthly, by self-liquidation, based on the intermediation rates charged in each of the services provided in the previous month, and shall be paid until the last day of the month following that concerned, or in its absence, by calculating the rate to be charged to the operator and notification of the revenue guides from the estimate of the intermediation rates collected, carried out by AMT on the basis of the services provided in previous periods.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u232	likewise, with the approval of this proposal, the vote on the proposal, submitted by the PSD, also amending Article 30 ( 3 ). that of the Decree. [[It was as follows: 3 — The payment of the contribution to be paid by each electronic platform operator shall be made monthly, by self-liquidation, based on the intermediation rates charged in each of the services provided in the previous month, and shall be paid until the last day of the month following that concerned, or in its absence, by calculating the rate to be charged to the operator and notification of the revenue guides from the estimate of the intermediation rates collected, carried out by AMT on the basis of the services provided in previous periods.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u233	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after voting on the amendments, it is now necessary to vote on the new Decree, with the amendments introduced in the meantime. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, PS and PAN, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The vote is followed by the vote on the amendments tabled in the context of the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 203/ XIII — The right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u234	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u235	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u236	Mr President, stop, pursuant to Article 8 ( 3 ). that of the Statute of Members, invoke conscientious objection and do not vote on the motion for an amendment which Mr President will put to the vote. The objection of consciousness is based on the non-concordance with the premise underlying the legal solution presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u237	Mrs Deputy, you are right that the invocation of reason of conscience, duly substantiated, by the honourable Member present at the meeting, is considered as a justification for not participating in the vote. This will happen in the case of Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit. Mrs. Members, we shall vote in special terms on the proposal submitted by the PSD amending Article 6 ( 1 ). that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN were rejected and votes against the PSD.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — The legal recognition of gender identity presupposes the opening of a procedure for the change of sex in civil registration and the consequent amendment of self-name in accordance with Article 8.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u238	We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the PS, the BE and the PAN, amending Article 7 ( 2 ). that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the PSD Member Teresa Leal Coelho and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It is as follows: 2 — Persons of Portuguese nationality and aged between 16 and 18 years may require the procedure for changing the term of sex in the civil register and the consequent amendment of their own name, through their legal representatives, and the conservator must examine the applicant's face-to-face, in order to ascertain his express, free and informed consent, through a report requested by any doctor registered in the Order of Physicians or psychologist registered in the Order of Psychologists, who attests exclusively his ability to decide and will informed without reference to diagnoses of gender identity, always taking into account the principles of progressive autonomy and the best interest of the child contained in the Convention on the Rights of the Child.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u239	We are now voting on the proposal by the PSD to replace Article 8. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN were rejected and votes against the PSD.]] [[It was as follows: Article 8 Request and instruction 1 — The application may be submitted in any conservatory of the civil registration and must be instructed with the following documents: (a) A request for a change in sex with the indication of the civil identification number and of the proper name by which the applicant intends to be identified, and it may from that time be requested to hold a new birth seat, in which no mention may be made of the change in the registration; (b) a document proving medical assessment resulting from the interdisciplinary team attesting the existence of the inconformity between the gender identity and the sex with which he was born, as well as the absence of a psychic condition which may compromise the expression of the will in free and clear form.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u240	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u241	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u242	Mr President, to inform you that I did not participate in this vote for the same reason I recently invoked.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u243	Mrs Deputy, your non-participation in the vote is registered under the rules of procedure which we all respect. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the new Decree, with the amendments made. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the PSD Member Teresa Leal Coelho and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[Upstairs, PS, BE, The Greens, PAN and public applause from the galleries.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u244	Before we proceed to the vote, I would like to draw the attention of the public in the galleries to the fact that it is not allowed to pronounce itself in any way in relation to parliamentary work. Mrs. Members, vote 598 / XIII ( 3 ) follows in the vote script. ( a ) — Despite the death of Mary of the Pillar of Jesus Barata Mourão-Ferreira, presented by PS and subscribed by 1 PSD member, who will be read by Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u245	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « She died last June 30th, Mary of the Pillar of Jesus Barata Mourão-Ferreira. Graduated in German Philology by the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon in 1965, she served between 1975 and 1976 as Member of the Constituent Assembly, elected on the lists of the Socialist Party. From August 1976 to 1978, he was head of office of the State Secretaries of Education and Education and in the following years he was an adviser to the State Secretary of the Presidency of the Council of the Mota Pinto Government, working on the problem of rehabilitation and integration of persons with disabilities and the former Commission on the Status of Women. From 1979 to 2004, he was Senior Counsellor of the National Secretariat for Rehabilitation and Integration of Persons with Disabilities, assuming the leadership functions of the Office of European Affairs and International Relations. in these qualities, he represented Portugal, among other initiatives, in the Council of Europe ( where he chaired various committees ), in the European Union and in the United Nations. He always paid attention to the problems of society, maintained throughout his life a permanent political and civic intervention and a relevant participation in cultural life, that his participation in the work of the Constituent Assembly was eloquent example. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Mary of the Pilar of Jesus Barata Mourão-Ferreira and addresses to the family and friends her heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u246	We proceeded to the vote on the vote that was just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The Bureau notes that the family is in the gallery and therefore I express directly the regret that the House has just approved unanimously. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 595/ XIII ( 3 ). a ) — From greeting to Carolina Costa, young Portuguese dancer, who won four gold medals and one silver at the end of the 2018 Dance World Cup, presented by PSD and subscribed by PS Deputies. Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Carolina Costa made a ‘historical participation’ in the Dance World Cup2018, the largest world dance contest, which took place this year in Sitges, a city in the province of Barcelona, and which involved more than 12,000 dancers from around the world, aged 4 to 25. The Bracarense dancer won four gold medals and one silver: of the six choreographies that led to Spain, five were graduated. Carolina Costa was born in Braga in October 2006. At only 3 years he started his dance course. at the age of 8 he joined Ent ’ arts — Escola de Dance de Braga, having already participated in several measles, events and shows. In September 2017, he competed for the first time at the Youth Talents Prize in Braga, having won the 1st. the place. At only 11 years of age, Carolina Costa has an enviable curriculum. Currently it integrates the Annarella Sanchez International Dance Conservatory, which represented Braga and Portugal at this end of the 2018 Dance World Cup. Next year, it will be Portugal's turn to welcome the Dance World Cup. The event will take place in the city of Braga and will bring together about 6500 children and young people from 48 countries. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its appreciation for the participation of the Annarella Sanchez Portugal International Dance Conservatory at the end of the 2018 Dance World Cup, praising the brilliant performance of Carolina Costa and other Portuguese delegation. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u248	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 597 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — With praise for the rescue of 12 young people and their football coach in the Chiang Rai caves in Thailand, presented by PSD and subscribed by PS Deputies. To proceed to their reading, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The whole world sighed of relief and happiness with the news of the success of the difficult rescue mission of the group of 12 young people and their football coach who 18 days ago were trapped in a cave in Chiang Rai in Thailand. Floods resulting from torrential rains had blocked the exit and prevented rescue teams from finding the group for nine days. Subsequently, the launch of the rescue mission was initiated, led by the divers' teams of the Royal Thai Navy and which mobilized the support of the international community. In three phased operations, they managed to remove the whole group from the cave, giving the mission a success on 10 July. Unfortunately, Sergeant Samantha Kunan, a diver of the Thai Royal Navy, lost his life during rescue operations. In addition to the courage of the divers’ teams, it was highlighted the bravery of the young people themselves to endure the deprivations for more than two weeks, as well as of the trainer, who, according to the reports, had refused food so that children could have access to all the food that the teams brought them while waiting for the rescue. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, praises all the tireless work of the rescue teams that managed to rescue the 12 young people and their football coach in the Chiang Rai caves in Thailand, praises the resilience of the rescuers and pays their tribute to the Thai rescue teams and official entities. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u250	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1753 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Salzburg, Austria ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then, in general, vote on Bill No 82 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 134 / 2015 of 24 July 2015 regulating the allocation of social mobility allowance to beneficiary citizens in the context of air and maritime services between the continent and the Autonomous Region of Madeira and between it and the Autonomous Region of the Azores, pursuing social and territorial cohesion objectives ( ALRAM ). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1644 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary measures for critical situations in air connections between the Portuguese continent and autonomous regions ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1645/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Aerial mobility strategy with an effective response to links between the continent and autonomous regions ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1685/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends support to the Government for wine growers and other farmers affected by weather in the Douro region ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens, votes against the PS and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u251	Does the PS vote against? The PS doesn't want Port wine? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u252	We now turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1686/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of extraordinary support measures as a result of the strong weather in the Pinhão parish in the Union of Casal de Loivos, Val de Mendiz and Vilarinho de Cotas, Sanfins do Douro parish and the parish of Vilar de Maçada in the municipality of Alijó ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] We shall immediately vote in general on draft resolution No 1735/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assessment and support for agricultural losses caused by the periods of May and June 2018 ( PS ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall then proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1748/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends support to farmers affected by the weather in the northern and central regions of the country ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, against the CFP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u253	I'm asking for your word. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u254	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u255	Mr President, I would like to point out on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group that we shall present a statement of vote on the last four draft resolutions voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u256	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u257	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u258	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u259	Mr President, I have a proposal to make, which has already been discussed with the other sides, in order to vote on draft resolution No 1603 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the PSD, which is at the end of page 4 of the script, up to draft resolution No 1697 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) of the Greens, at the end of page 10 of the script, with the exception of the draft deliberation No 20 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). So we can vote for a sitting five pages of the script. It is a contribution to the speed of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u260	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u261	Mr President, I have noted that there are votes in which it is not possible to proceed with this decomposition, because there will be Mr. Members who will vote on a number of resolutions differently.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u262	All right. Despite the good will, which I would like to accompany, Mr. João Oliveira, there is nothing done. We then proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1603/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of School EB 2, 3 of Lordelo ( PSD ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 5 PS Members (Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Fernando Jesus, Hugo Carvalho, Isabel Santos, Joana Lima) and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1727 / XIII ( 3. a ) — proposes the maintenance of the professional course of performance arts at André de Gouveia High School, Évora ( PCP ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN and 1 PS (Norberto Patinho) and the PS abstention.]] The vote on draft resolution No 20 / XIII ( 3 ) was followed. ( a ) — Requests the National Council for Education to study in-depth on the main options for a selection and recruitment scheme for pre-school and basic and secondary education ( PS ) teaching staff. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 1613/ XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Requalification of High School Joaquim de Araújo in Penafiel ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u263	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u264	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u265	Mr President, since we cannot vote for 5 pages of a sitting script, I would ask that we vote for at least this initiative together with the following two, which refer to the same school.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u266	Mrs. Members, there is agreement by the House on the general joint vote on draft resolutions Nos 1613, 1629 and 1745 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a)? [[Pause.]] As there is no objection, we shall generally proceed to the joint vote of draft resolutions Nos 1613/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the High School Joaquim de Araújo in Penafiel ( BE ), 1629 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Rehabilitation of the Basic School of South Penafiel, of the Grouping of the Joaquim Schools of Araújo ( BE ) and 1745 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government programme retraining works at Joaquim High School in Araújo, Penafiel ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 5 PS Members (Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Fernando Jesus, Hugo Carvalho, Isabel Santos and Joana Lima) and the PS abstention.]] These legislative initiatives fall to 8. I wonder if there is agreement by the House on the joint vote, in general, of draft resolutions Nos 1615 and 1731 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) relating to the Henrique Medina High School in Esponnde. [[Pause.]] Since there is no opposition, we will vote jointly, in general, the draft resolutions n. 1615 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of the Henrique Medina High School, Esponnde ( BE ) and 1731 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the rehabilitation of Henrique Medina High School in Esponende and removes all asbestos fibration plates ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 7 PS (Hugo Pires, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares, Maria Augusta Santos, Nuno Sá, Palmira Maciel and Sonia Fertuzinhos) and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u267	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u268	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u269	Mr President, it is to inform the House that the PSD Members elected by the Braga electoral circle will present a statement of vote on the two initiatives that have just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u270	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The two draft resolutions are down to 8. I believe there is the House's agreement for the joint vote of the following five draft resolutions, all relating to the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz, right? [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, we shall vote jointly, in general, the draft resolutions n. 1624 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — By the urgent requalification of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz, in Ovar ( BE ), 1633 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz ( Ovar ) ( Os Verdes ), 1639 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Requalification of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz ( PSD ), 1683 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government intervene in the requalification of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz ( PCP ) and 1690 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz on the national list of schools to be re-qualified with funds from Portugal 2020 ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were adopted.]] The draft resolutions are also down to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u271	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u272	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u273	Mr President, that is to say that I will give to the Bureau a statement of vote, on behalf of the Socialist Party Members of the Aveiro electoral circle, concerning the Ovar High School. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u274	Mrs. Members, the announcement of a declaration of vote is a rule of law. I think we are also in a position to vote together on the three draft resolutions on page 9 of the vote script on the Valbom High School in Gondomar, right? [[Right now, there was a burb in the room.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do I have to suspend the vote? Oh, my God! If you want, I'll suspend, I have no problem! [[Pause.]] We shall vote jointly, in general, on draft resolutions Nos 1628 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valbom Secondary School ( Gondomar ) ( BE ), 1667 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the High School of Valbom, Gondomar ( PSD ) and 1733 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for the urgent retraining and rehabilitation of the Valbom High School in order to ensure the dignity of the entire school community ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 5 PS Members (Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Fernando Jesus, Hugo Carvalho, Isabel Santos and Joana Lima) and the PS abstention.]] The three draft resolutions concerned are down to 8. Having been informed that there are no objections, we will also vote jointly, in general, on draft resolutions Nos 1630 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the Lumiar Secondary School in Lisbon ( BE ), 1687 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgently retraining works at Lumiar Secondary School in Lisbon ( CDS-PP ) and 1697 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent retraining of the Lumiar Secondary School in Lisbon ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens, the NAP and 3 PS (Helena Roseta, Joaquim Raposo and Pedro Delgado Alves) and the PS abstention were adopted.]] The draft resolutions are down to 8. We turn to page 11 of the vote script. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1373 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the valorisation of vocational education with the guarantee of equal opportunities for all students ( CFPs ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] The draft resolution goes down to 8. I was asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, sit down! [[Pause.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1501/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the advance of benefits due to vocational schools where there is delay in the financing of POCH ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from PS, BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] The draft resolution also goes down to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u275	Mr. President, we can join the vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u276	Mr. João Oliveira is determined today to give us good news, which he is grateful for. I think we have the possibility to vote together four draft resolutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u277	The first three, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u278	Therefore, I believe that we have the conditions to vote jointly, in general, the draft resolutions 1724 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the necessary actions with a view to the construction of the new hospital in Barcelos ( BE ), 1602 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Construction of the new hospital in Barcelos ( PCP ), 1743 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Construction of a new hospital in Barcelos ( CDS-PP ), only outside the vote on draft resolution No 1749 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), of PS. Is that so, Mr. João Paulo Correia?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u279	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u280	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote on the draft resolutions I have announced. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP were adopted.]] The draft resolutions are down to 9. the Commission. We shall now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1749 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The construction of the new hospital in Barcelos ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] The draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1595/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to initiate in 2018 the procedures for the construction of the new public central hospital in Alentejo, Évora ( PCP ). [[The vote was taken by votes to PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and 1 PS (Norberto Patinho) and PS and PAN abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u281	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u282	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u283	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u284	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We continue with the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft law No 456 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates the exceptional scheme for indexing the social benefits of the disabled in the Armed Forces ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and a vote against 1 PS Member (Paulo Trigo Pereira).]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft resolutions Nos 1565 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — By the correct application of Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( BE ) and 1666 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By monitoring the effective application of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August, as amended by Law No 57 / 2017 of 19 July ( Scientific Employment ) ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now move on to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft resolutions Nos 1574 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and urgent realization of works in schools of the Group of the Schools of Santos Simões, Guimarães ( PCP ), 1612 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of the Basic and Secondary School of Santos Simões in Guimarães ( BE ), 1712 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Requalification of the Basic and Secondary School Santos Simões, Guimarães ( PSD ), 1722 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation in schools of the School Group of Santos Simões, Guimarães ( The Greens) and 1732 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government rehabilitate and requalify the Basic and Secondary School of Santos Simões in Guimarães ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft resolutions Nos 1571 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake rehabilitation works of the Basic School 2 / 3 Frei Caetano Brandão, in Braga ( CDS-PP ), 1576/ XIII — Urgent requalification of the Basic School 2 / 3 Frei Caetano Brandão ( PCP ), 1626 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Basic School 2 / 3 Friar Caetano Brandão de Braga ( The Greens) and 1682 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Requalification of the Basic School 2 / 3 Frei Caetano Brandão, in Braga ( PSD ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 7 PS (Hugo Pires, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares, Maria Augusta Santos, Nuno Sá, Palmira Maciel and Sonia Fertuzinhos) and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft resolutions Nos 1562 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a plan for the rehabilitation of the High School Father Benjamim Salgado, in the village of Joane ( CDS-PP ), 1563 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Second School Father Benjamim Salgado, in the village of Joane ( PSD ), 1575 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the secondary school Father Benjamim Salgado ( PCP ) and 1622 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Urgent rehabilitation of the High School Father Benjamim Salgado, Vila Nova de Famalíão ( The Greens ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 7 PS (Hugo Pires, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares, Maria Augusta Santos, Nuno Sá, Palmira Maciel and Sonia Fertuzinhos) and the PS abstention.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft resolutions Nos 1561 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent rehabilitation of the Secondary School of Barcelinhos and remove all fibrosis plates ( CDS-PP ), 1578 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and urgent execution of works at the Barcelinhos Secondary School ( PCP ) and 1625 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Barcelos High School — Barcelos ( The Greens). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 7 PS (Hugo Pires, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares, Maria Augusta Santos, Nuno Sá, Palmira Maciel and Sonia Fertuzinhos) and the PS abstention.]] We now move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 1638/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — For the accelerated construction of the central hospital of the Algarve ( PCP ), 1698 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the necessary actions for the construction of the central hospital of Algarve ( BE ) and 1725 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Improving public hospital care in the Algarve ( PCP ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 4 PS (Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira and Luís Graça) and the PS abstention.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Health Committee, on draft resolutions Nos 1655 / XIII ( 3 ) is followed. ( a ) — For the accelerated construction of the new hospital in Lagos ( PCP ) and 1726 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for the construction of the new hospital in Lagos ( BE ). [[The vote was taken by votes to BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and 4 PS Members (Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira and Luís Graça) and abstentions from PSD and PS.]] Mr. Luís Graça asked for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u285	Mr President, it is to announce that on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Mr Ana Passos, Mr Jamila Madeira and Mr Fernando Anastácio, will present a written statement of vote on the last two final texts of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u286	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Finally, we have to vote on three opinions of the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which Mr Duarte Pacheco will give us. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the District Attorney-General of Coimbra, Case No 99 / 17.0TRCBR, the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes ( PS ) to intervene in the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u288	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please proceed, Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Coimbra Criminal Instruction Judge 1, of the Court of Justice of the Coimbra County, concerning Case No 1731 / 16.9T9CBR, the Ethics Subcommittee, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mrs Fatima Ramos ( PSD ) to make statements in the context of the procedure under reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u290	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco, you have the floor to account for the last opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees refers to the suspension of the mandate of the Members. Mr. Hugo Pires and Mr. Palmira Maciel, of the PS ( Circle Electoral de Braga ), and its replacement by Lucinda Carlota Monteiro Ferreira de Oliveira Fonseca and by Luís Loureiro de Castro, respectively, with effect on 11 July 2018 — in practice, this is a ratification of something that has already taken place —, limiting itself to the day previously indicated, ending at the end of the day designated, being the opinion to admit the replacement concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-07-12.u292	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Before I close the work, I remember the ladies and gentlemen. The debate will take place tomorrow in the State of the Nation. The session will start at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 17 minutes.]]
