ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — I am very pleased to review them, Mr President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The meeting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I ask the officials of the Authority, whom I greet, to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we start the thematic debate, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report on a number of legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. I begin by referring to the Proposals for Law No 146 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the access and exercise regime of the activity of sports trainers, which falls to 12. the Commission, 147 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Statute of the Public Prosecutor, which goes down to 1. the Commission, and 148 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the first revision of the National Territorial Planning Policy Programme, which falls to 11. the Commission. Resolution No 74 / XIII / 3 were also admitted. a ( GOV ) — Approves Council Decision ( EU, Euratom ) 2018 / 994 of 13 July 2018 amending the act on the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, annexed to Council Decision 76 / 787 / ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976, which falls to 2. the Commission, and Draft Law Nos 981 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Prohibition of captivating in regulatory entities, which falls to 5. the Commission, 982 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Prevents fox hunting using paulada and t-shirts, which goes down to 7. the Commission, 983 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Removes the fox and raspberry from the list of species subject to kinegetic exploitation, which falls to 7. the Commission, 984 / XIII / 3. a ( NAP) — Ensure non-prescription and administration of methylphenidate and atomoxetine to children under six years of age who are below 9. the Commission, 985 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Extends to the victims of fires between 3 and 10 August 2018 in the municipalities of Monchique, Silves, Portimão and Odemira the measures to support victims of forest fires in continental Portugal between 17 and 24 June and 15 and 16 October 2017 ( second amendment to Law No 108 / 2017 from 23 November ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 986 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to the Code of the Added Value Tax, approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December, in order to exempt from VAT all promoters of day care, kindergartens, homes, among others irrespective of their legal nature, which falls to 5. the Commission, 987 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to Decree-Law No 72 / 2017, of 21 June, in order to promote a bonus to companies that follow practices friendly to the reconciliation of work with family life, gender equality and birth, which falls to 10. the Commission, 988 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax, approved by Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November 2003 in order to restore the reduction of the municipal tax rate on buildings of taxable persons with dependents as a percentage of the value of the property, which falls to 5. the Commission, 989 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, increasing the duration of the initial parental leave for 210 days and the duration of the initial parental leave from the third child, which falls to 10. the Commission, 990 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Benefits within IRC to companies that promote family responsible behaviours that fall to 5. the Commission, 991 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Second amendment to Law No 4 / 2007 of 16 January to reduce or remove the sustainability factor to pensioners with two or more children, which falls to 10. the Commission, and 992 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter the IRS Code in order to restore and strengthen the family quota, which falls to 5. the Commission. Resolution Projects No. 1789 / XIII / 3 were also admitted. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government create a family support network and promote study and debate for a family and birth policy which falls to 10. the Commission, 1790 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government review in 2018 the ratio of educational action assistants of the public school in order to strengthen it, 1791 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government ensure that literary qualifications are not an exclusion factor from the regularization of links and safeguard the situation of workers under PREVPAP, which falls to 10. the Commission, 1792 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the reinstallation of a PSP team in the new Avenues parish area, with adequate effectiveness, 1793 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government allow schools to quickly replace operational assistants in an extended low situation, 1794 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Need to review the ratio of educational action auxiliaries in public school, 1795 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government create a scheme that allows paralympic athletes to be equipped with Olympic athletes for the allocation of support and scholarships, 1796 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Review and strengthening of the allocation ratio of operational assistants and technical assistants to ungrouped groups and schools, 1797 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends the Government to compare Olympic and Paralympic athletes at levels two and three, 1798 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Flexibility and agility of technical requirements under the RERU ( Exceptional Urban Rehabilitation Scheme ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1799 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Insurance of workers without 12. the year of schooling not excluding invitation to tender under PREVPAP considering the admission requirements at the date of commencement of work and, where necessary, granting a period for the acquisition of the required qualifications, which falls to 10. the Commission, 1800 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a possible committee for monitoring initiatives on family and birth, which falls to 10. the Commission, 1801 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — For an integrated family development and birth policy, which falls to 10. the Commission, 1802 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government promote an information campaign to disseminate and encourage the registration of the vital will, in the main media and in all public services with places of service, including authorities, which goes down to 9. the Commission, 1803 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen training in palliative care in Portugal, which falls to 9. the Commission, 1804 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government create a single document demonstrating the degree of disability and disability, for all circumstances of the life of the disabled person, accepted in all public services, and apply the National Functional Table for a fair allocation of the tax and social benefits to which the person with disabilities, chronic illness or disability may be entitled, which falls to 9. the Commission, 1805 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the training of health professionals in the area of geriatrics, at a pre-graduate level, that it pursue with the Order of Physicians and the Order of Nurses, with a view to the creation of the specialty of geriatrics in these professional orders, and that, once created the speciality of geriatrics in the Order of Physicians and the Order of Nurses, it strengthens the training of health professionals in this area at a postgraduate level, which falls to 9. the Commission, 1806 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government extend the maximum stop-over period from 60 to 90 days for payment of wage compensation to fishermen in the Esponende municipality and other areas of the country, which falls to 7. the Commission, 1808 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage, which falls to 10. the Commission, and 1809 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Establishment of a possible parliamentary committee for analysis and discussion of ideas, projects and proposals for combating demographic decline. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. It is known that in the first plenary session after the holiday there is always excessive work for our Secretary Duarte Pacheco, who, as always, has accomplished very well. Thank you for that. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us start the agenda with the thematic debate requested by the PS Parliamentary Group on the National Investment Plan under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure. To open the debate, I have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Paulo Correia. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u4	Mr President, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Debating the National Investment Programme ( NIP) 2030 is preparing the country's future. And preparing for the future of the country requires a broad and participatory public discussion that guarantees social, territorial and political consensus. The National Investment Programme requires strategic and decisive decisions for the future of the country and it is therefore essential that the debate and decisions related to the National Investment Programme receive the active involvement of the Assembly of the Republic. We are facing multi-year investments and projects of great relevance with economic and social impact for the next decades. They are investments that follow planning and execution periods that pass through legislatures and political cycles, which cannot be subject to improperly substantiated decisions, insufficiently evaluated and altered to the taste of government vicissitudes. We recall that in the previous legislation the PS, as a major party to the opposition, accompanied and constructively contributed to the development of the Strategic Plan for Transport and Infrastructure 2014 - 2020, known as PETI 3 +. It should be noted that many investments promised by the previous Government did not have funding provided in PETI 3 +. This programme closed a financing deficit of EUR 1400 million. Subsequently, as soon as it entered into office, the current Government took up the planning options of the previous government for the horizon 2014 - 2020, and only prioritized projects in order to ensure the optimization of financial resources for its implementation, in particular as regards European and investment funds. It kept the overall number of projects, 53 ; it maximized funding through European funds; global investment increased from EUR 6 billion to EUR 6500 million; the funding deficit for this programme was eliminated, PETI 3 +, and 60% of projects are completed or in operation. Contrary to the wrong conduct of previous decades, the current government has assumed, constructively and responsibly, the investment plan in transport infrastructures defined by the former Executive, thus demonstrating to the country a good example of responsibility for planning nationally relevant investments. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country has been confronted with the lack of consensus on structural projects and the lack of consensus has led to the successive postponement of infrastructures indispensable to the development of the country. Let us remember the decades of indecision regarding the construction of the Alqueva dam, which brought growth and development to Alentejo ; let us also remember the years of indecision on the need for a new airport in the region of Lisbon, which stole the right time for the start of a vital project for the competitiveness of our economy. We know that public investment depends, on a large scale, on Community funds, which is why all decisions relating to the National Investment Programme must be taken in a timely manner while discussing with the European Commission the next multiannual financial framework. On the other hand, the necessary stability around the National Investment Programme reinforces Portugal's negotiating position with Brussels, which will lead to greater gains in the partnership agreement to be concluded with the European Commission. After a first phase of the legislation focused on the replacement of income, the consolidation of public accounts, the stabilization of the financial system, the exit of the excessive deficit procedure and the creation of conditions for relaunching the level of investment, it is essential to prepare the future. The National Investment Programme must be aligned with the priority objectives of the Portugal 2030 national strategy, which aims to ensure a decade of convergence with the European Union. Like PETI, this programme will focus on the mobility and transport sector, key factors for strengthening the external competitiveness of our economy and promoting the country's internal cohesion. It will also focus on the environmental and energy sectors, areas that are intrinsically linked to mobility, which cannot fail to be addressed in the current context of climate change challenges, decarbonisation and energy transition. The National Investment Programme is the historic opportunity not only to carry out infrastructure projects that keep the country on the path of economic growth and on the path of convergence with the euro area and with the European Union,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... but also to increase the development of the interior of the country and of the territories of low density. It is therefore important that investments in transport, rail, road and the maritime-port sector reflect technical, financial and environmental-supported options and also ensure significant economic and social benefits for multiple territories and populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u5	Mr. Deputies, I ask you to conclude. The time that will be exceeded will then be removed from the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll finish. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the development of the country requires strategic investments, the realization of these investments requires stability and timely decision, stability requires consensual decisions. It is in this direction that they point to the commitment of the PS and the Government Programme : to promote a broad public discussion, which is under way; to submit the Programme to the technical, economic and financial opinion of the Higher Council of Public Works ; and to submit the Programme to the evaluation and vote in the Assembly of the Republic. This debate is one of the many that the Assembly of the Republic has done and will do about the National Investment Programme. This theme will mark this Legislative Session as well as this Legislative Session. The National Investment Programme is a commitment to the future of the country and a commitment to all generations. The PS faces this debate with a sense of responsibility, commitment and progressive vision. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u7	Let us start the stage of the debate itself. They are registered to request clarification from Mr João Paulo Correia. Mr Duarte Alves, from the PCP, and Joel Sá, from the PSD. Mr Duarte Alves, therefore, has the floor to greet on the occasion of his first intervention in this plenary, through the regiment figure of the request for clarification. Welcome. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by congratulating all the Members of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and thank you for the words of Mr President. Mr João Paulo Correia, the issue that has brought us to this debate today is a very important issue for the country, which is investment, in particular public investment. The reality shows, contrary to neoliberal theses, that public investment, coupled with the value of income, is essential to give impetus to the economy, to modernize the country and also to safeguard the future, with a view to coping with times of crisis. When we discuss a national investment plan, we cannot be left with a set of statements about great options, strategic lines, time horizons at 10 years. In addition to the great options, which also need to be discussed, it is necessary not to forget how public investment translates into small things, to ensure the functioning of the public service, to arrange the roof of a school or health centre, to put a public laboratory working in conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u10	In this regard, Mr President, we are still very short of the country's needs in terms of public investment. For decades the public investment has never been as low as in 2016 and since then the rise has been very insufficient, continuing below the 2011 values. According to the most recent budget implementation data for July, public investment has only decreased, in terms of counterparts, 4, 9 %, in a framework where it could hardly rise, given the state reached. It is also serious that, in these figures for July, the seventh month, the budget implemented is less than 40 % of what was planned in the State budget with regard to investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u12	So I leave the question to you: beyond the major plans of future investment, looking at the concrete reality of 2018, will the PS and the government consider taking action in the months to come, so that the 2018 Budget is fully implemented in terms of investment? This is where you have to start! I would also like to ask you another question concerning the National Investment Plan which we are discussing here today. in this plan, there are very few concrete references to public investment aimed at supporting national production. If it is true that GDP has grown in the last eight quarters — above 2 %, an inseparable result of defence, replacement and acquisition of rights and income — it is also true that this growth has occurred at the expense of more imports and not the increase in national production, disbalanced the external balance. from the perspective of the CFP, it is necessary to boost investment and to that end it is necessary for the country to free itself from the ties of deficit and debt to which it is subject by EU taxation, which the Government accepts without pointing out any prospect of breaking these constraints.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u14	I ask you, then, whether you recognise the need for an increase in public investment specifically aimed at the productive sectors and, in this sense, what measures the PS has in view, or whether, in the name of the deficit targets, the country can withstand the continuation of these inadequate levels of public investment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u15	Mr Joel Sá, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we welcome the PS for the agenda and the theme chosen for today's debate. We understand the need for this debate, because three years ago a PS government, Left Block, Communist Party and Ecological Party « The Greens » has been the lowest public investment in the last 20 years. I repeat: the lowest public investment in the last 20 years by a left government! Three years lost in ads, speeches and many complaints! And it is not us who say so, the International Monetary Fund itself ( IMF) confirms the lowest investment, as a percentage of GDP, between the advanced economies and, on the other hand, a depreciation that is greater than the new investment. The IMF also considers that the deficit has fallen at the expense of cuts in investment, and all this with the support of the PCP and the Block. The lowest degree of public investment execution was also demonstrated by the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support (UTAO) last July. If we check what happened between the values budgeted by the Program and the values achieved, as well as the values achieved between 2016 and 2017, we verified, in the environment and agriculture, an execution that did not reach 40%; below 50% remained health, science, higher education, basic and secondary education and justice. in health, it is particularly alarming, as it did not only present an execution rate of 48, 4 % of the corrected budget, falling from 2016, 5, 2 %. As can be seen in the picture provided by the Government, health was allocated in the Budget, 228, 5 million and were executed 110 million — here will be the explanation for the serious situation of the pediatric wing of Hospital São João, Porto, the hospital of Gaia and many others by this country outside. The state of health is also seen here! After three years of your government, they have not yet been able to match the 2015 level of investment in a much more favourable context, without troika and without bankruptcy. as far as the Investment Plan is concerned, I ask the PS what works it intends to drop and what works it intends to execute. We see what happens with the Golden Line, which, among the 600 students at European level, is 48. the most profitable. Why didn't you include it in the Investment Plan? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u17	Mr. João Paulo Correia, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u18	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the questions put by the honourable Members. Deputies Duarte Alves, of the PCP, and Joel Sá, of the PSD. I am responding to this: this debate scheduled by the PS Parliamentary Group serves to debate the future of public investment, more specifically the great infrastructure that the country needs to strengthen the competitiveness of our economy — external competitiveness — to promote the country's internal cohesion, economic cohesion, social cohesion and also to bet on those who are the factors of sustainability, not only of our internal resources, but also of the great challenges posed by climate change, decarbonization and energy transition. We were waiting for the PSD to come to this debate to talk about the future and the vision it has about the country's future, about the great investments that the country needs to make in the next decade so that our economy continues to converge with that of the European Union and for economic growth to continue above the euro area. But, unfortunately, we did not have this PSD stance, which continues to be tied to the past, to a very pass-by speech...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u19	Pass!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u20	... and very focused on what is the criticism of the moment, without the ability to see the needs that the Country and the generations of the Country show us. I wanted to recall that public investment in the time of the previous government fell to half. [[PSD MP Joel Sá's protests.]] Public investment fell to half in the time of the previous government! When this government took office in November 2015, I would also like to recall that the implementation of Portugal 2020 and Community funds was almost zero. Almost zero! As I said in the speech, and as you know, much of the public investment is financed through Community funds and if a government, like yours, is unable to implement and implement a Community programme, it is unable to prepare the immediate future and public investment is outside the Community funds. For those who are the great works, the National Investment Programme is under public discussion, is open, does not have its options closed. It would make no sense to put the Program in public discussion with closed options! The Programme is in public discussion and will come to Parliament shortly, so that Parliament will continue to debate the options of the Programme and make a final decision. In addition, the Government's programme proposes to the House the vote on the National Investment Programme, so that it will have a broad commitment and a broad majority as far as possible, which can be consensualized, because these investments have a temporary horizon that goes beyond the political cycles. There must be a commitment beyond a single political cycle to give stability to the National Investment Programme, so that it can be properly planned and thus strengthen the government's negotiating position in Brussels, during the negotiation of the next Community framework for Portugal. These are gains that no one can deny. In conclusion, it was agreed that the PSD would not forget that the latest Strategic Plan of Infrastructure and Transport that presented a deficit of EUR 1400 million in 2014. What is now proposed is a serious and transparent programme, we do not want to present a programme with a funding deficit, a programme with dead angles. That it is a program that makes investment choices for the next decade, but that it is clear and secure about its sources of funding.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u21	What works do they include in the Programme? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u22	Going to promise railway and highway, as did the previous government, without source of funding,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u24	...as happened, with a deficit of 1400 million euros, it's not serious and it's not constructive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Joel Sá's protests.]] Above all, the next National Investment Programme needs to be presented and viewed seriously and responsibly. This is the position of the Socialist Party, this is the commitment of the Socialist Party : to participate in the National Investment Programme with seriousness, with will, but also with a sense of commitment, because that is what this is about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u25	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, Pedro Marques. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by welcoming the relevance and opportunity of this debate on the National Investment Programme, welcoming the Socialist Party for the initiative, but also all parliamentary groups, of which we expect proposals and suggestions for the construction of this strategic document. The debate is therefore relevant, because the National Investment Programme will be the central planning document for infrastructure investments in the next decade, so it will be one of the most important tools for planning the country's modernization. It is also a timely debate, because it takes place in the exact period in which we are conducting a series of public hearings, listening to sector experts, representatives of civil society companies, academia, authorities and regions, with the aim of obtaining a wide range of contributions, which will, of course, be considered in the preparation of the document. The National Investment Programme will necessarily be linked with the overall strategy for the development of the country, which we have joined in Portugal 2030, after an extended process of participation, including its debate here also in the Assembly of the Republic, which we have already held this year. The broad economic, social and political consensus that we have been able to build around Portugal 2030 has been fundamental in order to strengthen the Portuguese position with the European institutions, but it is also essential that the country — its economic, social and political actors — be reflected in a long-term development strategy, so that the efforts of all agree to overcome the major structural challenges. The response to some of these challenges will go through investments in infrastructures that will be defined in the National Investment Programme. Like PETI 3 +, the National Investment Programme will focus on mobility and transport, key factors for the external competitiveness and internal cohesion of the country, and will also focus on the environment and energy, areas intrinsically linked to mobility, but we will not fail to address more global challenges, climate change, decarbonization, energy transition. The contributions we are receiving, both in the public hearings we are performing and through the Portugal2030.pt site, are essential to build the consensus that the country wants in terms of infrastructure. This is also an important debate for political actors to present their proposals, so that they are considered in the preparation of the Programme, so that they can be reviewed, if any, in the resulting document. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me clarify that the Programme does not intend to be a collection of promises, a PowerPoint where everything belongs, but nothing is specified, without estimates of values or identification of sources of funding. It is intended to be a responsible exercise for identifying programmes, where appropriate projects, indicating their budgets and sources of funding. Only in this way can we build a credible programming, which deserves the confidence of Portuguese, companies and institutions and which enables us to support the consensus that we aspire to. In addition, we intend to strengthen this consensus with the presentation of the National Investment Programme to the newly reconstituted Higher Council of Public Works, so as to take a decision on the technical, economic and financial aspects of the Programme. As we have presented in the Government Programme, we will submit the document to the Assembly of the Republic, with the aim of being approved by two thirds of the Members in order to ensure the stability of this Programme over a number of political cycles. At this stage, we need to focus on the discussion of project priorities for this National Investment Programme and the construction of the wider social and political consensus. This is the time to do it, the Portuguese don't demand anything less from us than that. The country requires all of us this effort and commitment: we will plan the infrastructures of the future to build a more modern, more competitive, fairer and more equal country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u27	Minister Pedro Marques, five were registered. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u28	Mr. President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u29	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, the debate now being held in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic is itself the translation, so let us say a national debate which the Government here announces, with regard to investment and infrastructure options, essentially in areas of mobility — rail, road, etc. — energy and the environment. However, there is a previous point that we cannot but underline, which is the imperative need to make a debate and an evaluation and point to prospects for the future at the level of public investment policy, not only in these areas of rail, road, energy, etc. As important as they are — and we will see why they are important — there must indeed be an integrated investment and development policy in many areas that are completely outside the scope of this document or the intervention line called the National Investment Programme. In other words, a National Investment Programme, in order to be worthy of that name, must go far beyond the areas which the Government itself has undertaken to delimit, of course due to the Brussels planning guidelines. We must therefore leave this box with regard to the planning and financing lines for public investment. When we talk about public investment and the inevitable and urgent need — this national emergency — to resume public investment, we talk not only in these areas, but in all others — from health to education, from prison services to security forces, from our productive apparatus to national sovereignty — which shows that we are far beyond the narrowest scope we have discussed this afternoon.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u32	however, this afternoon we are discussing important matters. That is why, because we are talking about a plan with a horizon of a decade or more, because it is in fact the 2030 horizon that the government is putting on the fundamental lines of investment in these areas, some issues can only be asked. In the case of an investment strategy in the horizon of more than a decade, this question is called for: what are the strategic options that the government is defending? Regardless of the other political actors, what is the Government's perspective, what does the Government propose for the debate, with regard to absolutely structural projects not only of creating wealth, of development, but also of planning the territory, planning, territorial development, territorial cohesion, both for the metropolitan areas and for the interior of the country? I give some very concrete examples, which have already been too late, too late. As regards the road crossing of the Tejo, what does the government have to say about this structural investment? What about the development of rail accessibility to the south of the country? What about the cross-border connection? And we're not just talking about the Lisbon-Madrid link, we're also talking about the Douro Line, for example. What contacts have been or have been developed with the Spanish State regarding the possibility, for the future, of cross-border linkage, in terms of railway, of the Douro Line? What prospects are put, in particular, medium-term investment prospects, in absolutely structural areas, and which have been discussed but which do not appear from the documents published so far, such as that of the airport sector. Our national airport network raises this issue. Does the government even want to move forward with VINCI to that aberrant project of turning Air Base No 6 into a sort of Montijo airport? Is that even the option that the Government wants to put, regardless of the country's discussion on the National Investment Programme?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u33	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u34	Is the Government sure to support and defend this option, in the face of environmental implications, the impact on populations, the security issues that are currently being put? Is this debate relevant or not to the debate that you want to promote? And this for a project with a useful life of how many years, Minister? Will we reach the end of this 2030 horizon with a short-term equipment that is exhausted, however? Or is he exhausted after how many years, Minister? That is a concrete question. What stands out as inevitable in relation to the near future, responding to the concrete needs of our country and our economy, is the phased construction of a new airport worthy of that name, which provides guarantees of development and expansion for the future. And this doesn't have to wait for some kind of airport that gets exhausted in the short term.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u36	Some very objective questions, yet.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u37	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u38	Mr President, in conclusion, one last question.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u39	Mr President, I would ask you to conclude, for two reasons: you have already exceeded the amount of time you had to ask for clarifications and you have already exceeded the amount of time you allocated to your party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u40	Mr President, if I may, I will ask one last very short question. I ask the Minister the following: does the Government maintain the prospect of the final elimination of the railway on the Vouga Line, between Sernada do Vouga and Oliveira de Azemés, or will it comply with what has been approved in the Assembly of the Republic and invest primarily in this section as part of the modernization of the whole Vouga Line? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u41	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u42	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Heitor de Sousa, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, I have listened very carefully to your statement, which basically summarizes the presentation of the National Investment Programme that the Government has on the site Portugal 2030. Although this debate has been convened on the basis of the title « National Investment Plan », it must certainly have been a grate of the Socialist Party, since it is indeed a national investment programme that needs to be made. This precision is not semantic, it is a content accuracy, because we know that a national investment programme is something that needs several sectoral investment plans, which make up the National Investment Programme for the next decade in its final acquis. Having said this, Minister, the Government's option was to concentrate this initial phase of the discussion of the National Investment Programme for the next decade on three thematic areas: transport and mobility, energy and the environment and climate action. Mr Minister, this causes us great perplexity because, on Portugal 2030's own website, one of the windows, let's say, one of the titles of this site concerns the policies of social and territorial cohesion in the country. However, the policies of social and territorial cohesion in the country require that the country and the State, and the Government in particular, have public policies to address the shortcomings that exist in relation to a set of social equipment, a set of themes in the area which builds the social state that we want at the end of the next decade, and that also require the maintenance of a permanent public investment effort in areas such as education, in which there is a need to correct the major deficiencies that still exist in school facilities. I recall, for example, that in the district where I am elected, most schools have still roofed with asbestos, that it is necessary to withdraw, under the penalty of them, to constitute a threat to the public health of students. I also remember, in relation to the district for which I am elected, the deficiencies that exist at the level of the National Health Service: lack of qualified professionals and facilities; closure of large extensions and health centres in the district. This is especially the case in a number of areas in the interior of the country, where there are serious problems of desertification in the territory — all the autarchs, all the living forces in those areas have told us this situation. I belong to a possible parliamentary committee which is collecting information and content for the definition of the Portugal 2030 Strategy and, yesterday, we were in a session in Covilhã, in which the main complaint of all the participants was not only regarding the delays with which the current Portugal 2020 programme faces with regard to the reimbursement of a series of expenditure already made, but above all because there are a number of public services, a series of social state valences that are completely absent from the areas of the interior, from the most disadvantaged areas of the territory. Therefore, these areas are also absent from this National Investment Programme, which is a very bad augury, because it does not correct what is necessary to correct in terms of diagnosis—in fact, the very diagnosis that the government makes on its pages also refers to. Mr Minister, what you have to say about these failures or absences that the National Investment Programme at the moment, as stated, reveals. Finally, referring to the following: Mr Minister, with regard to the PNI, in the railway part, on mobility and transport, presents a map of the rail network that gives us an account of the current railway network in operation and a series of lines, signalled to yellow, which were part of the old rail network that existed in the country and which, meanwhile, were discontinued and even disappeared, purely and simply. The question I ask you, Minister, is whether we want to know that, at the end of the next decade, the current railway network...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u44	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u45	... have the extension that it has today, or better, more than 100 km, if we take into account what the 2020 Railway expects to build again, or if we want the rail network, marked on the map to blue and yellow, to return to our rail transport daily, because otherwise it will be very difficult for our country to fulfil the commitments set out in the Paris Agreement and which have to do with the promotion of rail transport of goods and passengers and with the fulfilment of the decarbonisation goals of the economy that the Country has signed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u46	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bruno Dias and Mr Heitor de Sousa, on the question which they both have raised about the scope of this document, which I understand, I must say that the debate and follow-up of the implementation of the Portugal 2030 strategy, which we have been discussing with the European Union, but above all the preparation of the next programming cycle is not merely structured around the most typical infrastructure areas, that is to say, those mentioned earlier in the PETI and to which we have now added the area of economic decarbonisation. Therefore, because of the nature and importance of this strategic objective, it was added to what was previously the strategic plan of transport the area of decarbonization and it was considered that, for the area of investment in infrastructure, this should be the priority of the public debate. But, as you know, there is a specific committee in this Parliament to monitor the preparation of Portugal 2030 and certainly that many other public investment areas and other public policy areas that materialise on infrastructure investments will continue to be prepared and will certainly be discussed in Parliament and consensualized with the country, as we have done so far. With regard to the issues that have been raised — yes, we have already begun to debate exactly concrete issues for the future — I think that I must answer as follows: firstly, this plan must respond to three strategic objectives which are, in fact, embodied in Portugal 2030, in particular the strengthening of competitiveness, the strengthening of territorial cohesion and also taking account of the issues of sustainability in general of our economic and social model. It is clear, therefore, that we will need to continue to invest in the competitiveness of our connections abroad. That dimension that we were discussing in the context of Portugal 2030, i.e. more external competitiveness, but more internal cohesion, has to be present. It is precisely this binomy'more external competitiveness/internal cohesion' — and not responding, because I do not even want to do so at a stage of public hearing, if investment A or B there will be — which will guide us. We need more sustainability and, therefore, more energy efficiency, more economic decarbonisation, certainly, and more competitiveness in our external connections to promote, as, indeed, recently, it has been questioned, more exports from our economy, from all over the territory, but we also need more internal cohesion. Which means that, in much of our territory which, in the Strategic Plan on Transport and Infrastructure, was perhaps the weakest pillar, with the size left and presented in Brussels and which was more than closing some of these services inside, we must return to the debate on strengthening internal cohesion, and he certainly has to be present at the work that we are going to do. We have been giving concrete examples and I think that the dimension of concrete has to design our preparation for the future. When we are reopening a closed section a decade ago in our railway or when we are making such new 100 km of railway, this is being done in the interior of Portugal and on the way to the border to give competitiveness to ports, but also to give competitiveness to our interior regions that can export through ports, but which may also have more competitive links to Spain. Therefore, we must continue to work in this way and we must work extensively on the various areas of investment that are planned in Portugal 2030, but also — I mean that — the debate we are going to make about the future will not prevent us from continuing to implement the investment projects that we are currently defining and we are continuing. One of them is exactly what it has to do with strengthening the airport capacity of the Lisbon region. It was what was missing that the projects did not continue to be executed! In this order of ideas, Mr Bruno Dias could also ask me why they do not stop the competitions to make the railway line between Évora and Elvas pending the debate of Portugal 2030. That doesn't make any sense to us. What is defined, what is scheduled to run. The Lisbon airport is far beyond the limits of its capacity and, indeed, with the additional investment in infrastructure in the Montijo we can double the capacity of the Lisbon airport region and allow that capacity to last together for several decades. It is an investment that will be ready in a few years, contrary to what would happen to an investment in a new airport that could not simply be ready in a few years. It is an investment now, Mr Deputies, as the Environment Minister himself has said, and well, that there must be less environmental impacts than building a new airport. And that's good to see, because there's already an airport infrastructure, although of military use, and it's being used. Therefore, all environmental issues will be respected, but the government will not stop the execution of investments in our airport capacity, because we have had too much time to make the debates and make the decisions. We have already wasted too much time in decisions that had already been taken, which has now forced us to move forward to a faster solution which, fortunately, does not call into question the possibility of the country, from a decade or two, when it understands, to discuss, eventually, a new airport capacity built from root to the Lisbon region. But now we need to move forward as we prepare for the future in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u48	Mr Minister, you have another series of requests for clarification, particularly from the honourable Members. Mr Carlos Silva, from the PSD, Pedro Mota Soares, from the CDS-PP, and José Luís Ferreira, from The Greens. I then give the floor to Mr Carlos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister, this debate should have a profound strategic reflection on the future of Portugal. This is an exercise of the greatest importance and will be better achieved as the degree of involvement of all political, economic and social actors. Unfortunately, that has not been the practice of this government. Moreover, it is our understanding that, in order for there to be consensus on these matters, it is necessary to start another debate which was what we expected the Socialist Party to bring here today. He didn't. I should have brought here the debate on the balance sheet of what has been the 2020 investment programme, which is virtually entering its last year of implementation. But, as far as execution is concerned, the little we know is not famous. Unfortunately, you are very short of meeting these goals, particularly at the 2020 railway, where for example, only about 15 % of the projects initially planned are currently under way at the moment, that is, anything like 70 km of line. They're very close, Minister. Mr Minister, when do you intend to account for the 2020 framework for Portuguese? It's because the Portuguese are sick of your propaganda, they're sick of PowerPoint. The Portuguese demand to know to what extent these investments and their implementation are contributing to the improvement of the cohesion, competitiveness and qualification of Portuguese. The Minister, last January, shocked by the opposition he was going to make the reprogramming of the funds to hide, reacted at the time saying that this debate would be held in Parliament. That's what we expected you to do here today, but you didn't. He runs forward, steals to the polling station and, before the elections approaches, diverts attention to the 2030 funds. Another propaganda action! You will be known as the government of the « now it is». In the face of specific problems affecting the lives of Portuguese people, in particular the railway and the state of chaos in which they are due to your policies of seizures and the lack of public investment, they send estimates forward and "now it is that it is"! But all this for two reasons: first, to escape the 2020 elections;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u50	Run to the poll? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u51	...second, by the approximation of the electoral period. With regard to consensus, Mr Minister, I would like to leave you one last question concerning a promise which you left here in last January's debate. The Minister said he wanted to hear from Parliament about the model and role of the Higher Council of Public Works. This did not happen, for example, in decisions taken unilaterally by the Government in relation to the metro in Lisbon. You divert the funds, no one hears, have no positive opinions from virtually no one, are content with the opinion of the administration of the Metro and the Chamber of Lisbon and put the metro down in Lisbon — which is the most centralizing project that ever happened after April 25th! — ignoring the people who need to be transported throughout the remaining metropolitan area of Lisbon and making the interfrequesia of the city of Lisbon a real car. I ask, Mr Minister, to conclude, if this is how this Government intends to build, as I said in its last sentence, a more modern, more competitive, fairer and more equal country. That's the question I leave you with. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u52	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party has called us today for this debate so that we can reflect a little on the next National Investment Programme. We have often heard the Government say that it wants this programme to be widely debated, which is widely involved, but objectively when we look at the support of this same debate, what do we see? We see that the Government has presented a small PowerPoint full of some plain intentions, always with those nice words that we like to hear as'structuring investments' — here the Government no longer bothers with the word'structuring' — talks about it being multisectoral, in strategic programmes and presents a set of intentions such as capitalizing, educating, qualifying, appropriate — usually when we hear a socialist speaking in appropriation, that means more taxes for the Portuguese. But in passing this, we realize that at the moment, the National Investment Programme, of investments, has nothing. It can be a national programme of intentions, it can be a national programme of intentions, it can be a national programme of attempts! Real investment, we don't know anything, and it's very difficult to have a consensus or a disagreement on a matter where the government doesn't clearly tell what's coming from. Mr Minister, I was careful to see, for example, the final report by GTIeva ( Working Party on Higher Value Added Investments ), a group that was preparing a very important last programme, the PETI 3 +, and here we had four hundred and few pages with investments, one by one, and we knew very clearly what was being discussed, how much the subjects that were being discussed would cost and when their deadline would be. The first question I ask you, Minister, is this: when does the Government send to the House and put in the public debate a report like this, with a very specific definition of which strategic investments are, so that we can start to have a discussion? Without that, Mr Minister, as you will understand, it is very difficult to have a discussion. Mr Minister, there is a second point that I would like to mention and which seems very relevant to me. I believe that this debate must also serve to look at those who are the strategic investments announced by the Socialist Party and realize its rate of application until today. It seems to me, Mr Minister, that in this debate the government is, more or less, like the clock in the Chamber: completely out of time!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u54	The gentleman is full of batteries!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u55	Promise something and then you don't have the ability to execute! Mr. Minister brought to Parliament, when we were discussing the State Budget for 2017, a page on Railway 2020. He said on this page that Ferrovia 2020 would have a financial impact of EUR 2700 million. According to data from the Portugal Infrastructure, July of this year, the works completed by December 2018 — we are talking about a plan that is by 2020 — are 5 %. at present, the government allocated EUR 102 million to an investment plan of EUR 2700 million. That is why the Minister comes here to announce new investments, but we have to ask him where are the investments that your Government has promised to the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u56	Another question: I also remember hearing a lot of people from this government say that public investment was what it was! They said we needed to have a growth in public investment, because the Portuguese economy could not prosper without public investment. I have with me the public investment data of the last few years and I must say that until the very difficult years of financial intervention, in the years of austerity, in which the country was about to be in a bankruptcy, the public investment was higher than the years of 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u57	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u58	For comparison only : in 2015, 2, 4 % of GDP ( gross domestic product) was applied on public investment ; in 2016, 1, 5 %; in 2017, 1, 8 %. Of course we know that you promised that 2018 was the year of public investment and that in 2018 we would recover that kind of investment. They reached the State budget and promised an increase in public investment of 48 %. According to the latest budget implementation data from the DGO (Directorate-General of the Budget) of July this year, public investment is now growing, up to one year since the worst years of the decade on public investment, only 8%. That is why, Mr Minister, between your plans and reality, there is a huge hiatus, bigger than the time of the Hall clock. Mr President, in fact, he has stopped in time and in this sense, if he wants to have the legitimacy to speak, to discuss a National Investment Programme, he would first of all agree to comply with the investments he has already promised. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u59	You have the floor, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Green Parliamentary Group, to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister, public investment is, must be or may be a key element in promoting the growth of our economy, but it will also have to reflect on the quality of life of people, citizens, Portuguese. And when I say that you should have reflections on the quality of life, I mean, of course, public services. But it is also necessary for public investment to seek to value our natural resources, which can combat regional asymmetries and the abandonment of the rural world and which can also promote energy efficiency. When we talk about public investment or, better, when we talk about the need for public investment to be able to reflect on the quality of life of people, we refer in particular to public transport. Public transport continues to be delayed, with suppressions, with reduced supply and with a lack of both human and technical means. That is to say, we continue to have a policy that keeps citizens away from public transport, when any sustainable transport policy calls for an investment, in order to create conditions that are presented as real alternatives to the use of the particular car, because this will also help us to respond to the commitments we have made at the international level, with regard to greenhouse gas emissions and with regard to combating climate change. They are therefore necessary quality public transport, with comfort, with certainty and, above all, at socially fair prices. in the field of public transport, we highlight the railway. We recall that this government was the last of recent times to open a piece of a line, but in addition, in our perspective, it is imperative to repair rolling stock and for this it is essential workers. We know that the government has announced the hiring of 102 new workers planned for EMEF (the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, SA), but, in our view, this number does not even cover the number of workers who are going to reform, and the 88 workers who are announced by the Government to the CP are, in our view, absolutely insufficient. So, if you could, I would like you to speak on these announcements that the Government has made, in order to see whether the Government considers that they are sufficient or not. As for Beja and the need to boost regional potential, I remember that Portuguese invested millions of euros in Beja Airport. I would therefore like to know what projects the Government has for this airport, in particular in what, for the Greens, represents a lot, which is the link of the airport with the railway. We are talking a lot about the fight against regional asymmetries, about the need to combat desertification of the interior and here we have an example of this need. I would therefore like to know, Mr Minister, that there are projects for Beja Airport, through the joint which must be done with the railway. Finally, Minister, I would also like to speak to us about some of the government's projects on investment with regard to energy efficiency. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u61	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the questions raised, which inevitably lead to a course of action and any evaluation of the investment programmes under development. Ferrovia 2020 is a programme that has been developing since 2016 and will be until the end of this programming period. Moreover, they will certainly have the opportunity to consult the documents and to know that, like Portugal 2020, this programme will be implemented by 2022 - 2023, moreover, its implementation is planned from the very beginning in that same programming period until, as you know, it is partly financed by Portugal 2020 funds and by others of the CEF (Connecting Europe Facility ), which also have the same programming period. However, at the end of this period, of the EUR 2 billion of investment which could have been financed by the Community, we are on the way at the end of this year to have completed or in the process of working about half that amount. So we've been running the program for 2 years and we're with this level of execution that seems completely reasonable to me. It is a program that is at cruise speed, with works in the cohesion regions — here was highlighted the question of reopening a line closed a decade ago — with works on the Covilhã-Guarda section, with works next to the border, between Elvas and the border, with works already completed on the North Line and more works to be carried out, with the electrification of the Mininho Line, being the first piece practically completed and the second one in work. I therefore believe that we can all be more ambitious about the implementation of the 2020 railway. In fact, I also wanted to find at least projects to make public investment when I arrived at the government, and unfortunately I did not find them in the infrastructures of Portugal, nor did the government generally find them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u63	Ingenuity on your part!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u64	Much of the explanation for this level of investment made in previous years has to do with the following, Mr. Members : it was very good that, when they completed the preparation of PETI, the government that then ruled had given guidance to the infrastructures of Portugal to make the projects that would allow us, there, at least I know, to launch a parlor or other of such investment that was foreseen in PETI. But it did not give and that is why public investment, when we arrived at the government, had no relevant implementation within the framework of Portugal 2020 and we did not even have the conditions to launch works. As you know, we found a completed work contest — the electrification of the piece to the Douro Line frame — but with problems in the work, which had to be stopped and started again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u65	Just complain!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u66	We found a contest launched for a work on the North Line and projects were to see them in the Infrastructures of Portugal. With an investment ambition like we had, we found no materiality, not even to launch a works contest. That said, of course we're still working. Public investment grew more than 20 % last year. This year, only the investment of the infrastructure in Portugal is growing, in the first half, about 60 %, with obvious emphasis on investment in rail. And since they talked about implementing and programming Community funds, I would like to give you something new. We do not only have an important level of investment and support with Community funds for the investment of companies, now in the first half of this year, compared with the first half of last year, public investment supported by Community funds has grown by 75 % — I believe that this figure is relevant to both Members and Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] So when they ask where is public investment, when they are looking for public investment financed by Community funds, I can tell you that it is growing 75 % in the first half of this year and is significantly accelerating the investment dynamics, particularly that of the central administration, which, of course, is the one that the government can control and can somehow promote. In this regard, I would like to remind you that, from the public investment figures up until July, which are in acceleration, that of the central administration is already growing 20 % and in acceleration dynamics throughout this period, which means that it will continue to grow much more during the rest of the year. With regard to long-term investment prospects, we give priority to public transport; yes, we give priority to decarbonisation, also through public transport; yes, we give priority to those which are the investments we want to make also in the context of regional cohesion. And when they ask us 'but they want to debate which specific investments, which investment programme in particular? » and bring us the report of GTIEVA (Working Group for Higher Value Added Infrastructure), I think it is worth having some memory and realize that the Government that supported promoted a public debate just like this, which was done within the framework of GTIEVA, and it was exactly a debate with the whole society, like what we are doing now, which then gave rise to a report with concrete investment programs and projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u67	Mr Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u68	So, with the best of opinion, the question that the CDS asked does not make any sense, because the CDS supported and integrated a government that made an exact debate of this nature. The report submitted by GTIeva is a report that is made after a public debate like what we are now doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u69	And when does that report get here? It's like the Hemicycle watch: late!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u70	And, of course, with all the property, after this debate ended, it will be time to do that kind of work. That's the logic. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u71	I now give the floor to Mr Virgílio Macedo of the PSD Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We could call this debate the debate of the wrong conscience. The debate on the poor conscience of the Socialist Party and the Government in relation to public investment. When, at the end of 2015, this majority and this government presented themselves to the Portuguese, they presented themselves as the ar autos of public investment. Public investment would be a key and decisive factor for economic growth. Today, after three years of governance, we can all prove that this was rhetorical, that it was no more than rhetorical, only rhetorical. The practice of this government has been entirely contrary to it. We can even say that 2016 and 2017 were black years for public investment. The numbers do not deceive: unlike the rhetoric in 2016, public investment reached a minimum historical level. in that year, the public investment was only 1, 5 % of GDP, beating historic minimums not only in Portugal but throughout the European Union. A true black record! In 2017, and contrary to political propaganda, and unlike the promised and formulated in the State Budget, public investment fell again: more than 8 %. The investment value executed was below the budgeted value by more than EUR 850 million. It's unacceptable! It is unacceptable that the budgetary implementation of public investment in 2017 in areas as important as health or education was below 50 % of the budget. in health only in 2017, around 120 million euros of investment were to be executed. It's a lot of money! And that is why there was no EUR 20 million to perform a pediatric wing at the Hospital de São João ; and that is why 2. the requalification phase of Gaia hospital was postponed; and that is why the investment of replacement of most hospital equipment was not made which, according to the Bastonário do Ordem dos Médicos, "are out of time or need to do mandatory maintenance. Do not keep on seeking. ” in education, they were also about EUR 140 million. This value would certainly give to requalify many schools, such as the Alexandre Herculano High School in Porto, which was never the priority of the government. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u73	For this reason, the works of requalification of the Lisbon National Conservatory, amounting to EUR 9, 2 million, are over 2 years late. All this cut in public investment is made in a year in which Portugal has had the greatest tax burden ever: 34, 7% of GDP. And the year 2018 seems to not bring back good news for public investment, even after two truly black years. on 5 March, the Prime Minister announced: “The time has come to bet on public investment” — once again, practice has nothing to do with rhetoric. Until May, the implementation of investment expenditure was again mediocre, only 18, 7 % of the budgeted. Too little! Too little and too bad to be true! The naked and raw reality, the one that cannot be hidden from the Portuguese, is that this government has used public investment as the variable it sacrifices, in order to meet the goals of the deficit. Two examples, and could be many more, because unfortunately, examples are not missing: the execution of the Sines-Setúbal-Lisboa-Caia railway corridor, which is fundamental to our exports, which, according to the programmed in PETI 3+, would be at an early stage of construction; or, moreover, the re-qualification of the Lower Beira Line, which could already be a reality and whose conclusion is systematically postponed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u74	Farewell? Oh, my God! It was early!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u75	The poor and dangerous short-term ideological vision of this government, which wages to increase current expenditure, on the other hand with the increase in taxes and the sacrifice of investment. And it is never too much to remember that all the parties that support Parliament this government are complicit in this sacrifice of public investment. They all support, they all approve! [[PSD applause.]] This government lives for today, lives for its survival, does not think in the long run, does not prepare the future. And now, it's more ads, more propaganda. Now, with this National Investment Programme, public investment is going to happen. Now it's gonna be! It'll be, but only between 2021 and 2030. This is the time frame for implementing this investment programme. Another fallacy they're trying to make the Portuguese believe. Public investment is now necessary, not from the second half of the next legislation. This Government must once and for all assume that it is its political option, a legitimate political option, not to implement investment to meet budgetary targets. Take this, be true to the Portuguese! They assume that they did not want or were unable to bring together two realities: public investment and fulfilment of public deficit goals. They assume that, as a result of this vision, the Portuguese are having less public services and less quality. They assume the abandonment of the maintenance of our infrastructure, where, every day that passes, the works are more pressing. Take your options! These are your political options! It is time for the government to abandon unconsequent political propaganda. It is time to do what they haven't done in the last three years: to execute, to carry out, to provide public companies with financial resources so that they can perform their duties. You can start running now. All the works provided for in PETI 3 + have the PSD agreement. We won't waste any more time! Stop the cuts, stop the captivating, mostly stop future government investment announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u76	Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group was appointed to request clarification and therefore has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u77	Mr President, I would like to ask you to make a prior note before you make the request for clarification. We all realize in this Chamber that Mr Pedro Mota Soares found that the material given to him for the evaluation of the national investment plan was little. I am imagining what Mr. Pedro Mota Soares thought, when his leader presented 20 new metro stations, a postcard, without any quantification, with absolutely no additional information that could be understood. I can well imagine how you must have felt about the feeling you've now shown here. But the Socialist Party does not act that way, it does not work that way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u78	For those who made a postcard with Madeira's hospital! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u79	I would like to say to Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo — and somehow to the PSD Members who have spoken before — that the PSD has not taken the step in this debate. The Socialist Party, at the opening of the debate, went up that rostrum with total spirit to a discussion. The Socialist Party hoped that there would be a response by the PSD to its availability to discuss, dialogue and find solutions to the national investment plan. That is what we expected in this debate, that is what the country expected, that is what was expected of a responsible party. Once again, the PSD did not resist the temptation to show the people of Portugal that it is erratic, also in this matter, that is, in a few days it says it is available for consensus, in other days it no longer wants to know of consensus for anything...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u80	That's what PS always does!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u81	...and will seek the past, and always look to the past, not being able to discuss the future, economic growth, employment and the competitiveness of the country. This became clear in all the interventions that were made in this Chamber after our intervention. The PS has always avoided this confrontation. We did not want or want to discuss the past, we want to discuss the best for the country, with regard to the national investment plan. And we want to seek the greatest possible consensus in this Assembly of the Republic, whether the PSD, the CDS, the Block, the PCP, the Greens, the NAP. We want to seek this consensus and the availability of the government to that end was very clear. You cannot leave this debate without telling the country very clearly whether or not they are available for that consensus, to discuss a national investment plan that will actually improve the country and the quality of our infrastructure and, above all, ensure stability in the discussion of these investments. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't hide in the past! It is that we had a lot to talk about the past, of how you executed Portugal 2020 ( PT2020 ), in the two years in which you were in government,... [[PSD protests.]] ...the way they left the program on the floor. There's got to be a huge effort by this government to get the program up, to speed up public investment...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u82	Speed up public investment? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u83	...and to ensure that private investment, especially private investment, came out of those miserous EUR 4 million, which was what you delivered in the two long years in which you carried out the programme. Dear Mr. Virgílio Macedo, I would like you to tell the Assembly of the Republic, the people of Portugal, this House, this Portuguese Government, whether or not they are available for this discussion, to look to the future, to discuss the best investments for Portugal, for the whole country, for all Portuguese, and not continue in this language to look back, to blame everything and all and not have the ability to face the future, to face what we want.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u84	To reply, Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u85	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I would like to tell you clearly that it is the government that does not take the step towards public investment and, with regard to consensus, the PSD is always available for consensus in favour of Portugal and the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u87	For infrastructures, we have a basic document, which is PETI 3 +, whose public debate was wide, with more than 400 contributions and 1200 participants. With regard to this document, the Government, the Socialist Party only needs to say that investment is that it wants to add and that investment is that it wants to withdraw. We're not always gonna be redoing what's been done.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u89	PSD has a very clear view of public investment: it is always in favour of productive public investment... [[PCP and PS rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u90	He even wants to laugh!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u91	...and that it has a cost-benefit relationship, without a doubt, beneficial to the Portuguese. So we in the PSD are waiting for the government to say what are the investments provided for in PETI 3 + that you want to withdraw and what investments you want to add. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u92	Mr Hortense Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have here today to discuss the strategy for investments and infrastructures that we all regard as absolutely necessary and vital for our country. It closes a medium and long-term vision for the next decade, a decade that we want to be of modernization and development for the whole country, thus increasing the cohesion of our territory. This is also one of the objectives of this Programme, which is launched here, in an open way, so that we can all contribute, so that it is consensualized and does not constantly go, after government, to the retreats, with a country moving back, in constant dissemination of opinions on investments. This is harmful to the people and to our territories...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u94	Did you take three years to realize that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u95	... and, therefore, it is welcome this attitude of the Government to the launch of this Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u97	Mr Minister, I would like to say to you that we also hope that here, in the Assembly of the Republic, because it will also be voted here, this cohesion will take place through a partnership not only with the Portugal 2030 Strategy, not only with the PNPOT (National Territorial Policy Programme) but also with the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion (PNCT). We also draw attention to the need for articulation with the National Program for Territorial Cohesion. I would like to tell you that, often, we also need to pay attention to priorities for the general interest, not only for interest groups but for the general interest of the country, for its effect in the process of local, regional and country development itself. We need to meet the concrete needs of each region across the country and, often, what is missing are small investments but have a great reproductive effect. And there are investments to be concluded. Therefore, this vision of courage is needed to complete these investments, either at the level of the railway or at the level of the road. We cannot continue with priority situations assumed by the PS, such as the electrification of the Beira Baixa Line ( which was electrified to Castelo Branco, in 2005, and even to Covilhã, in 2011 ), which then are stopped a decade. It took this Socialist Party government to start again with this crucial investment...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u98	It's true! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u99	... that will connect to the North International Corridor and thus assume the development of our exports. Therefore, and with this I am finished, Minister, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have any more reverses, we want an infrastructure plan that also pays attention to cross-border, road or rail links, because the country deserves to be looked at as a whole and will be better off with greater cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u100	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by confessing that I had high expectations when I saw the schedule of this debate. I thought: “Do you want to see that, finally, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, the Government and the Socialist Party — and now the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party — bring examples of works that have already been completed, which have consensus, which were in PETI 3 +, which have been reaffirmed by this government, and come to say when they will finally be inaugurated? Oh, my God! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u102	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u103	Not at all! We have a government that has come to account. It is in the last budget, in the last year of government and comes with a hand full of nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u104	You should be satisfied with that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u105	A good example—and I will already go to the Communist Party and to the demands of the works for Alentejo and the Algarve, which are all late—is Mr. Carlos Pereira come to say « you promised 20 metro stations for Lisbon ». It's true! I just didn't say it was on an acceptable schedule, with predictable funding and to agree with a broad consensus. We are not those who announce a hospital for Madeira but there is no hospital and there is no one who promised it, because he is no longer the party leader. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u106	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u107	The Minister has a phrase that I very much like, which is as follows: «the PowerPoint accepts everything». I thought, at the time, when I said that phrase, I was making us a critique, but only now do I realize that you were talking about what you're doing, i.e., you put it at PowerPoint, PowerPoint accepts everything, it's in very funny colors, but then nothing happens. Mr Minister, if you want a consensus, we can even make this a much more serious debate. Let's go there, then, create consensus. You promised 10 links to industrial areas with Community funds, and I am talking about the road sector. You said: "Well, we can't do any more, we can't invest anymore, but at least there are works that the government wants to promise and will do". They were links to industrial parks to help the economy, to help territorial cohesion, to help exports. Say, please, of the works you have promised, how many have been completed. I will only give you the example of a particular interest, which is that of Viseu-Satão, the connection of the World Industrial Park to Satão. Tell me when the work will begin. I was engaged to last year. At the railroad until I can go further. I don't even know how the Socialist Party is still talking about the 2020 railway. I thought there was some decoration and some shame, because of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u108	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u109	You have to go see the works going on! He's not going!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u110	He has three works on the ground and he had promised—I don't know, I didn't make the document — the North International Corridor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u111	It's working!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u112	As for the piece Covilhã-Guarda, the launch of the contest was for September 2016, Mrs Deputy, I repeat, September 2016. The agreement of the Low Beira Line with the High Beira Line was also for September 2016. This is in a document from the government, from the infrastructures of Portugal, which I did not do.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u113	They don't even believe in themselves anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u114	The award of the Pampilhosa-Mangualde project was for April 2016. Question: Where is she? Oh, my God! in the South International Corridor, the Sines-Ermidas-Grândola section was for March 2016 ; the segment Évora Norte-Elvas was for March 2016...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u115	It's working!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u116	I can continue around here, Minister, because it gives for the whole railway 2020. Mr. Minister had working conclusions for 2018 - 2019. And does it not have the top to say 'is in work'? Oh, my God! It says « Good, there were delays...», but what is true is that the completion of the great pieces of update... It is that what you are doing is RIV (full renewal of the road), are only maintenance works, little is a new work but, even though they are of maintenance, says that it launches in 2016 and inaugurates in 2018, when we are at the end of the government’s mandate and has only six works on the ground, it is very little to come to a debate. It really needs to be high enough to have a debate. I would like to be able to tell us when it is actually going to have works like the International Corridor, when it is going to inaugurate some works, and it is no longer just works, it is the renewal of the circulating material. We have now had news of more difficulties in the Alfa Pendular and V. Ex.a only assumed the commitment that I would deal with the Regional. Question : how do we stay in the international? How do we stay in the long course? How do we stay in the suburbs? How do we stay on the Cascais Line? We're talking about things we can do right now, and tomorrow! And for that, in order to do so urgently, it has the consensus of the CDS. Now, what you're bringing us is a public service contract for CP, but we don't know when or how much. It says: « Good, but let's buy rolling stock». For when? For 2021, 2023 or 2026! Question: Who will the government be in 2023 and 2026?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u117	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u118	In conclusion, Mr President, with a sympathetic word on the altruism of the Minister, because all the promises he makes, by the way, are not for him to inaugurate, will be for another Minister of Planning and Infrastructure. Therefore, I do not cease to be good will and therefore end with this word of sympathy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u119	And we're already at the right time in the Hemicycle watch, for information from the CDS bench. Mr Heitor de Sousa, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, now gives the floor to Mr Heitor de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u120	Mr President, we hope that with regard to the National Investment Programme the Government will be as effective as the Assembly of the Republic in correcting the clock of the Hemicycle. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government has taken the option — wrong, in our opinion! — to follow the essential of PETI 3 + which it defined for the current Community framework Portugal 2020. We have already had an opportunity to draw attention to the structural weaknesses of PETI 3 +. The main concern relates to the fact that public passenger transport is virtually absent from the measures of the Railway 2020 programme. Therefore, it is expected that for the next decade the 2030 NIP ( National Investment Programme 2030 ) will correct what will not be done in the 2020 Railway programme. However, the indications given to us by the Railway PNI regarding the extension of the railway network that is expected to be reached at the end of the Railway 2020, and in the future, are those of only 100 km more. As for the future of the national rail network, there is no line in this programme. As for the improvement to be introduced into the national rail network and services, there is nothing either! There is therefore a kind of black hole about the future of the national rail network that needs to be corrected. In particular, Mr Minister, I ask: will there be a recovery of the average extension of the national rail network, putting it, for example, on the European average? Will, for example, correct the lack of accessibility to rail transport in several district capitals on the Portuguese continent? It should be noted that, with the current Railway 2020, the lines that existed before and which linked to district capitals on the continent are now very tenuous lines that have ceased to be exploited and, in some cases, no longer exist. However, the comparison between the reference values of national road and rail networks and the reference values in the other countries of the European Union — 26 — shows that Portugal occupies 3 on the road. the place, in terms of extension and quality of it, while, in the railway, the country is in 16. the place, i.e., is located in the lower half of the table. If we were to make this comparison not with the infrastructure but with the services, we would certainly integrate the "car-trailer" of the quality of the supply in terms of public rail transport services. Therefore, two types of questions are raised in this area. First: will the Government correct the absence of a national railway plan, which this House has recommended to the government to present here by the end of the previous year, that is, until 2017? Oh, my God! Even late, will the government include in the theme 'transport and mobility 2030' the adoption of a national railway plan? Oh, my God! Secondly: will the Government, in due course, approve the investment plans in rolling stock that allow the COP not only to offer what is defined in the timetables but also to provide the necessary means, in material and human resources, to increase the supply of high-quality rail transport, both in urban and regional services, both in the long-term, national and international service? Does the Government believe that it is acceptable for the supply of Alfa services to be dependent, in time, on what Renfe wants to rent us, not allowing the CP to offer itself an autonomous and quality offer to meet the future challenges of liberalisation imposed on rail transport by the European Commission? Oh, my God! Strategic investment options to strengthen CP as an internal railway operator also require no hesitation in this area. The government will continue to delude some Portuguese and some Portuguese with a propagate renewal of the concession to Fertagus from the North-South railway axis or will integrate into the CP the current service, guaranteed by CP trains — from which it should never have left! — correcting in this way the absurd prices practised by Fertagus on that railway axis, including it in the common ticket to the entire metropolitan area of Lisbon?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u121	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u122	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The country is faced with a clear strategic choice. Will public transport be either defended by the State or not, with public investment? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u123	For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has already been well mentioned here that large public investments, including infrastructure investments, have very long planning and implementation cycles. These investments have to be planned in a structured future which is often not compatible with changes in political cycles and changes in legislatures. For this reason, the success of this Programme depends heavily on the capacity of the political forces present in this House to ensure its stability and permanence, with a view to achieving the major objectives, which are summed up, in essence, to build a more developed and more cohesive country. After a few hours of discussion, the questions to be asked here are no longer addressed to the Government, they are in fact addressed to the PSD and the CDS, who in this debate have omitted their obligation to present alternative projects, alternative strategies and, above all, to the Portuguese, in this House, as the project they have for Portugal. [[PSD Member Protest Fernando Virgílio Macedo.]] What are the major strategic investments defending Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u126	What is your outlook for the future for Portugal? What strategic dialogue are they defending between this plan and the other plans that are currently being discussed in this House, notably Portugal 2030, the PNPOT, the National Reform Plan? What are your priorities for articulating these objectives and investments within a future project for Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u127	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u128	I shall conclude, Mr President. What we can conclude during this debate is that on the side of the PSD and the CDS there is only a desire that things go wrong. [[PSD Member Protest Fernando Virgílio Macedo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u129	Have you ever apologized for bankruptcy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u130	I repeat: only the desire that things go wrong! A perspective of the future, a perspective of development, a word of bet on the capacity of Portugal and the Portuguese do not exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u131	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u132	There is only one thing that is looking at the past and wishing that things do not run well, as they are clearly running, to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u133	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the conclusion of the debate, we are now closing. Thus, for the closing intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our country continues to need public investment, especially quality public investment. Investment that serves as a leverage for private investment and that can promote the growth of our economy. Investment that will be able to respond to the needs of Portuguese in terms of public services that value our natural resources and conservation of nature, which combats regional asymmetries and the abandonment of the rural world. Certainly the discussion around public investment would gain other contours and other scope, would not be the limitations of the budgetary treaty, the obsession with the deficit — which seems most to be a divine imposition or a commandment — and public debt, which, as it is structured, continues to represent a serious obstacle to our development and to drastically limit our options. In any case, public investment needs to be viewed as an indispensable tool to promote the growth of our economy, to combat regional asymmetries and to improve the quality of life of Portuguese people, particularly at the level of public services. in fact, public services remain far from responding to the needs of Portuguese. The problems in the area of health are growing and, although not today's problems, but decades of underfinancing of the National Health Service ( SNS ), whose maximum exponent occurred with the PSD Government and the CDS, continue to feel at all levels. But today there is a strong investment in the health sector for an added reason: we live at a time when some prepare to launch a sort of OPA (public procurement offer) to the National Health Service. They seek to further weaken the National Health Service so that the delivery to the private is almost inevitable, as has happened, on other occasions and in strategic companies for our economy. We believe that health is a right for all citizens who should not and cannot be turned into a business. Therefore, health is required to be a priority when we talk about public investment. But public investment must also be seen as a way of seeing the infrastructures that are essential for national development, in order to enhance the dynamization of our productive apparatus. We are talking, for example, about public transport, which continues to be aware of delays, suppressions and reduction of supply, which is pushing people away from their use and which runs counter to any transport policy that is intended to be sustainable. in this framework, the railway is of decisive importance. When we talk about the railway and its problems, we know what we are talking about, because the Greens have come, during this summer, to travel to the country of train, at an initiative called Trains to Roller, Portugal to Advance. Today, The Greens are on their way to the East Line and tomorrow they will be on their way to the Cascais Line. Therefore, we well know of the problems that the railway is going through and of the problems that it is creating to populations in terms of mobility, but also of the effects at the level of territorial cohesion. That is why the Greens consider it absolutely essential to invest seriously in the railway, particularly in the West Lines, to complete the electrification, which was also planned on the Douro Line, and in its connection to Spain, and on the East Line, in particular on the branch connecting to the industrial area of Portalegre. In addition, it is absolutely imperative to undertake the repair of rolling stock and, for this purpose, workers are indispensable. in fact, the 102 new workers planned for EMEF will not even cover the number of workers who have moved to reform and the 88 planned for CP are absolutely insufficient. It is no wonder, therefore, that the Greens insist again on the need to bear in mind that, when we talk about public investment, we must have public transport and, of course, the railway present in the equation. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u135	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have made this debate by putting a number of issues that we find to be central to the discussion of the National Investment Programme and by putting to the head one of the most critical concerns. I am referring to the exclusion of a set of central areas of national life from this National Investment Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u138	Issues such as the role of public investment in supporting productive sectors to overcome one of the main deficits facing the country, which is the productive deficit, the absence of reference to areas as important as health, education, justice, forces and security services, culture, civil protection, science, all of them central areas in our national life and with a decisive role in the development of the country, are sidelined with the consideration in the National Investment Programme by the government. And we understand why! We know why this happens! We know that this is the result of the European Union's impositions and that the government unfortunately accepts rather than opposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u139	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u140	We know that this is the result of the choices that the European Union has made, of the taxes it has made, already in the discussion of previous Community frameworks, that the Government expects to be placed in the future and, instead of taking the option to defend the national interest, to defend what best serves the interests of the country's development, takes a self-censorship option, incorporating in its own options the acceptance of the European Union's taxes. This is a wrong option, which should be contradicted to defend the interests of the country! [[PCP applause.]] To this, ladies and gentlemen. Members add doubts and concerns, which we have also put in this debate, about the options that the Government takes in the areas that are considered in the National Investment Programme, in areas such as infrastructure, communications and telecommunications, rail, airports, population mobility. We have put a number of concrete issues, not only with regard to the great options that need to be taken but also with regard to their concrete translation into the investments that must be made to serve the people, to serve the development and modernization of the country. The Government's response to the new airport in Lisbon and the option for the airport shuttle in Montijo is remarkable and truly paradigmatic of the options that the government takes: "it is taking advantage of what is there and, for 20 years, it will soon discuss whether a new airport is needed". Ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the country cannot be discussing new airports from 20 to 20 years old. This is a strategic option that has to be taken with the responsibility of strategic option that is and the importance it has for the country. The same applies to the answers given to the questions we brought here about the railway. We asked about the closure of the section of railway between Serada do Vouga and Oliveira de Azemés and the government answered with the reopening of the link from Covilhã to Guarda. We asked about the consideration of strategic investment in rail as a regional development factor, and the government responded to the Sines-Caia link. Mrs. Government members, the closure of kilometres of the railway at a given point in the country is negative and is not compensated for the reopening of other kilometres of railway at other points in the country. And the importance of investment in rail cannot be measured by carriages of goods brought and taken inside and outside the country. The railway must be an element of regional development, which must serve to enable different regions to develop and populations to gain mobility, and not just to be watching trains entering and leaving the country. We have heard from the PSD and the CDS during this debate the desperate attempt, which they have repeated, to make believe that they have not done so much harm to the people and to the country and that they have even been — imagine! — friends of public investment. As hard as they are, PSD and CDS cannot erase the history, the history of their destructive action in the country and the commitment of the national future, the history of the heavy responsibilities that PSD and CDS have for the policy of aggravating exploitation and impoverishment, for the right policy they have attacked, and they want to continue to attack, the workers and the people, and to harm the country. We have not heard the decision to break up with the right-wing policy. We have not heard the option for an alternative policy, which rejects the European Union's taxes and defends a sovereign course of national development. We have not heard the option of breaking up with the European Union's taxes, which places investment on a secondary level, limited and conditioned by the deficit targets, defined and determined in accordance with the interests of the large economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u141	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u142	I shall conclude, Mr President. But it is this alternative policy that the people and the country need to overcome the serious national problems, which are the consequence of the right-wing policy and which persist. A patriotic and left-wing policy that frees the country from submission to the euro and from the taxes and constraints of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u143	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u144	A patriotic and left-wing policy, which assumes public investment as a decisive element for improving the response of public services, for increasing national production, for regional and territorial cohesion, for the development of the interior and the rural world, for the modernisation of infrastructures and for the increase of scientific and technological capacity. This is the patriotic and left-wing policy for which we will continue to beat. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u145	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for the closing intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u146	Mrs. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The CDS participates in this debate with a perfectly quiet conscience, of whom, while in the government, did good to the country, because it pays debts, recover financial autonomy, run with the troika and stop being a protected state is doing good to the country and it is doing good to the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP and BE protests.]] And despite these difficulties we have inherited—and I could give here the example of a heavy inheritance, as Mr. Minister does, remembering only the Marão Tunnel, but that is not what I want to do—in the time of the CDS and the Social Democratic Party, the country has never witnessed such a great degradation of all the public services provided to Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u147	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u148	This is something that makes us think, because the CDS, responsibly and seriously, alerted, in due course, to the problems that could exist in health, if there was no investment. Unfortunately, we were right. It is said by users, that they tell the boards of administration, that they are told by those who contact the National Health Service every day, directly or indirectly. We warned what the lack of public investment could cause in education. Well, the school year starts now and there is no lack of news of serious failures, failures of this governance, supported by PCP management, Left Block, Greens and PS. But we could say something, which was the essence of the debate, about public transport services. If there is a challenge that we should respond with broad consensus is about the role of rail in the country. How does it fit into the national transport system? What is the role of air and road transport? Unfortunately, politics has been erratic in this matter. How can this sector help territorial cohesion? I have asked questions, I hope the Minister will answer, about something that is fundamental to the economy and territorial cohesion, which are those small links, let us call them last mile, let us call them investments that complement other investments already made and that have a huge impact on the export capacity and the ability to attract investment throughout the interior. Well, we have no news. And for these connections, we give our consent. I can only point out two outside my district: the IC6 — and, when Mr State Secretary was in the Oliveira area of the Hospital a very short time ago, he spoke at least in this — and EN125. We can also talk in the case of the railway, in what we want for the transport of passengers, what we want for the transport of goods, what we want on the network, how we want the EMEF and how the country is preparing itself and will be located in what is the liberalisation of the railway sector in 2019, finally in all these matters that need a response. We had a starting point, PETI 3 +, not running away from the government, and well, from what was consensualized there. What we want to say to the Government and the Socialist Party is that if they succeed in fulfilling the promises they made in the 2020 Railway, in the Strategic Plan on Transport and Infrastructure, in health, education and territorial cohesion, the CDS will give its consent. The CDS, in this matter, as always, is guided by responsibility, by the notion that balanced public accounts need to be held. What we cannot do of the debate, once and for all, is a set of facts that we oppose, which is very visible in the set of draft resolutions of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block where they ask for works, but then, in reality, nothing happens. There is a set of announcements, such as this debate that the Socialist Party has pointed out, but then we have to ask: « Then tell us a work that has been completed». We have all had the opportunity to see, recently, the proposal of the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal) for the State budget. One of the structural works, considered by the CIP, is called International Rail Corridor North Aveiro-Salamánca. The Minister will have the opportunity to tell us when the Aveiro-Salamanca Railway Corridor is planned, which is, according to the CIP and the CDS, essential for exports and the Portuguese economy. What's the schedule? What's being done? We want to know whether we actually have a national investment plan or whether we only have a national plan of intentions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u149	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for the closing intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u150	Mr President, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: First of all, we note that this debate, marked by the Socialist Party, demonstrates some anxiety. We know that, from the beginning of the mandate, the Government has the basis of the great consensus for public works and is looking at the PSD to be able to say « we want to approve the two-thirds future investment programme of the Assembly of the Republic ». But—is strange! — this programme is still under public discussion and the PS marks a debate for this purpose. It is soon destroyed in Mr Minister's first intervention, when he says « we will not discuss any of the particular aspects, we will discuss general ideas ». Mr Minister, you have already been here at least twice discussing the general ideas of the National Investment Programme! Twice! Come here a third time to discuss general ideas, two weeks from the end of the deadline, in practice, shows only the anxiety that the PS has, to be able to tell the PSD « we do not understand with you! Do not keep on seeking. ” This seems more political game than anything else, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u152	From the beginning I thought it was a political game, because I did not believe that the government and the Socialist Party looked at the PSD or the CDS and said « you are with us in public investment». It's because they ran public investment between 2011 and 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u153	It's true! Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u154	They hit him! They pressed him! They've been jumping on it to take it to negative values! Is it to these examples that the government wants to give a hand for public investment? It's not possible. I don't think so. What model? Still days ago, we heard the PS speak in a model for a key sector in our country, which is that of health. What is the PSD model? More public-private partnerships(PPI), more business! Is it the public investment in the business that the government wants to promote? Oh, my God! Don't tell me that the PS now wants to get into the PSD PPPs? Oh, my God! Ah, no, sorry, because some of them are also, and many in the investment part, on the side of the Socialist Party. Therefore, this is the first doubt that we may have in this political scenario. Is what the government is actually trying to disenchant, in a play that has taken a few years, is the practice of the past for the business of custom? From this point of view, we do not accept it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u155	But vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u156	But it is true that, if that is the case, we understand the death penalty of the choices. Strategic investments in knowledge, health, public services are lacking here, which we do not see. There are great public works—it is true! — but in the area of custom, large investment, big business. Is this the fundamental point of divergence? Mr Minister, we have been seriously concerned about this reality, because we know that, looking at the concrete choices and, for example, for a fundamental sector, which is that of the railway, after this plan is in progress, it will have more than 100 kilometers than it has today. And it is enough to see what the government says, because it says that Portugal currently has a very low rail coverage density in Europe and that it will have another 100 kilometres in five years. Now, if you are far below today, then, from here to five years, you will be far below. however, the government does not plan to extend the rail properly, as we expected, for passenger transport. It foresees this enlargement for goods—it is true! — with a direct link from the ports to Spain, but the populations, Minister? Oh, my God! Are you guys gonna look at the lines, watch the trains pass? Oh, my God! Is this the model of mobility that the government defends? It does not seem to me, because it does not tackle the major problems of climate change, it does not have any intelligent mobility reform and, in practice, it is to implement what we are already late in, but which does not respond to the needs of the country as regards the populations in particular. We look again at the issue of ports, the economy of the sea, and we see that this National Investment Programme is another key aspect. We see what is the legacy of the Socialist Party in the ports and, now, what is the legacy of the prospects of analysis for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u157	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u158	I shall conclude, Mr President. And the legacy is that he does not want to break with the privatizations that existed in the sector, he does not want to break with an idea of looking at the sea as if it were not public space, but rather space for the private to explore and in fact do not want to invest in knowledge to, as a whole, take advantage of the country, citizens and citizens. Mr Minister, we have taken very little of this debate. We hope that, within 15 days, when the National Investment Programme is being presented and that, yes, to the Assembly of the Republic, we may in particular have much more good news than we are now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u159	For the closing intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: How many times, looking at the past, do we remember works that suffered advances and setbacks, promises of fulfillment and cancellations? We speak of Alqueva, IP3 ( main route No 3 ), Lisbon airport, works on national road No 125 ( EN125 ), railway links from the port of Sines to Spain or the construction of the Marão Tunnel and so many others. How many times have populations and investors happily verified the progress towards, on the next day, or rather, in the next government, everything will stop? We can say that since Fontism that happens. With the new investment plan, PS proposes to change this paradigm. This will therefore be a plan made with citizens and citizens, which, with this debate, seeks convergence between the political majority, seeking to give sound and stable economic signals to national and international business fabric. It is essential that we build the infrastructure that citizens need without making a raza tabula just because they came from the previous government. Thus, contrary to previous practices, the current government has taken up the investment plan in the previous Executive's inherited transport infrastructure since the beginning of the legislature and has demonstrated to the country a good example of responsibility for planning nationally important investments. When the PS reached the Government, the reality of investment in Portugal had a deficit of EUR 1400 million in the Strategic Transport Plan, included projects without secure funding from European funds and the previous government had stalled the country, leaving citizens and investors without route or clear path. It was therefore necessary to raise the sleeves and give the country soul and trust, starting with the existing plan and, in parallel, starting the process of structuring the true investment plan articulated with the objectives of Portugal 2030. At the same time, the country was given a break and yields were recovered, accounts were consolidated, public services recovered and the economy grew robustly and sustainably, reaching about 2, 3 % growth in the second quarter of 2018. Since 2015, people-oriented and economic policies have been promoted, which allows us to state today that the economy has grown 5, 8 %, private consumption 6 %, investment 15, 9 % and exports 16, 7 %. Therefore, we now have conditions to go further: transport, mobility but also environment and energy are key parts for the future of our country's competitiveness and therefore also this investment plan. With this investment plan, it will be the first time a concerted effort will be made for stability in the investment strategy, a strategy aimed at strengthening the international competitiveness of the Portuguese economy. To this end, this plan aligns a strategy for strengthening rail, giving priority to the international connection of the national rail network and thereby seeking to overcome the peripheral reality of Portugal and to make a clear and strong contribution to the flow of national products with an export vocation; at the port level, it ensures an adequate connection with the railway, giving a critical approach to this investment and making the maritime vocation of our country robust. We therefore have railways, ports, mobility, energy as structural bets, in line with Portugal 2030, that is, with the medium and long-term challenges that are placed upon us, thus taking advantage of all the financial resources available to strengthen the territorial cohesion of our country. This is an investment plan for the future, but it is also a responsible plan that — we can never forget — does not want or can do everything at the same time. It therefore assumes the new challenges and ensures that they provide the tools necessary for economic operators to continue the sustained strengthening of our country's recovery and economic growth. At the end of this debate, it is now left to appeal to the political responsibility of those who do not want everything and to oppose it so that, for once, they can accompany us in this paradigm amendment, in the name of a compromise for the future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u161	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Émídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is an important debate which, in fact, deserves the attention of all parliamentary and Portuguese groups. But let us be clear: the Socialist Party comes here, made a wolf with lamb's skin, to appeal to a consensus on the right and on the left, which has systematically refused, bearing in mind that, for three years, it has not given rise to the national investment plan that exists, systematically putting it into question without making the assessment of it, it does not seem appropriate and is a huge political hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u164	This debate is important and indeed deserves to be done, but it cannot serve to forget, disguise and hide the real failure of this government in relation to public investment. And it is not the PSD that says so, it is the IMF, it is the UTAO itself, it is the data of the General State Account that demonstrate that with this government public investment has drastically decreased. Comparing to 2015, the last year of government of the last government, the public investment was worse in 2016, because, despite having been budgeted better, the execution was worse ; in 2017 it also had a better budget and they said that in that year it was going to be, but the result of the execution was again worse than in 2015 ; as for 2018, they say that with certainty it will finally be better than in 2015, but we do not know, we will wait for the execution, because promises, announcements and more promises were made in 2016, 2017 and 2018. For everyone's sake, it would be important that in 2018, finally, public investment was greater than 2015, but look at this : it was always worse, even without any embarrassment like those with which the previous government had to deal, like the pre-bancarrot and how to have the troika in here. Despite all this, it was worse! It is even more serious when we look at the sectoral numbers, because here, in fact, we see the situation of some of our public services. For example, public investment in science in 2015 was EUR 155, EUR 9 million and, in 2016, EUR 81, EUR 2 million, in the 2017 Budget, there was the promise of EUR 240 million, but after that, the government committed itself and this House, with the votes of the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens, approved the Budget, which said it would invest 136 million, but in 2017, only 55 million were executed, well below the 127 million 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u165	It was a little bit!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u166	This is the reality, unfortunately, for the Portuguese, and this, of course, explains much of the degradation of the public services to which we are witnessing, in the north and in the south of the country. Let us therefore be clear: we are very available to discuss the future and we have a good starting point, the PETI3+, which, as you have already mentioned here, resulted in an in-depth debate — Mrs Jamila Madeira, an in-depth debate! — by mobilising more than 1200 people, more than 400 contributions, through sessions, from north to south of the country, with companies, entrepreneurs, universities, authorities, regional coordination committees, in order to reach a set of concrete works to be done over the next few years, not in previous legislation, but throughout this and the next legislatures. Is that exactly what you want to propose now? Great! Do not forget that this has not been done, do not realize that there are no concrete proposals taken by the previous government that continue to have the support of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u168	What is important is to understand what your proposal for the future is. of those important works and infrastructures, which do you want to eliminate? Are we going to understand now why the railway connection from the railway 2020 to the Algarve Line has disappeared from the Railway 2020? Finally, why don't you want to put the Golden Line into goods by 2030, which is considered one of the highest potentials by European experts? That'll be important!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u169	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u170	I shall conclude, Mr President, by recalling that the starting point exists and resulted in a broad debate, a broad consensus. Let us then realize what the Socialist Party and the Government have to say about this, what they want to add and what they want to withdraw,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u171	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u172	... and we will be here to debate and contribute, as we have done in the past, so that the works are actually done in the interests of the people. Now, hypocrisy is enough! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u173	To close the debate, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: during this debate we had the opportunity to pick up some suggestions, some alerts, here and there, some proposals, few, but that were enriching the construction of the National Investment Programme. I believe that, in this sense, the purpose of the Socialist Party was achieved with the scheduling of this debate. Unfortunately, other interventions have focused on a discussion that has shifted over time and, above all, on the subject of today's debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u175	The PS one, for example!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u176	We are discussing the National Investment Programme for the next decade — or at least that is what it was intended — but some Members have been interested in looking for the small controversy, the small clique, instead of contributing with credible proposals for the debate that was really on the table. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We have really heard — and, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we did not want to believe — the PSD says that public investment is necessary now. This was the PSD talking, and I'd say you've lost your memory, you've lost a little bit of your composure, because you're now saying that you need public investment. [[PSD protests.]] At the beginning of the legislature they had done so, when we came to the discussion of the first State budget — I repeat, to the discussion of the first State budget — presented by this government and a Member of Parliament, who is here today, in the House, and who is sympathetically fulfilling, said: "Now is the time for the work! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” in the first discussion of the first State Budget, they said: "Now is the time of the work! » And he's going to ask for works on the highway, and he's going to ask for works all over the country, it was the time of the work! It is unfortunate that this would certainly benefit the Portuguese from this debate, and our position was in that sense, when I assume that it did not come to present the concrete investments — which will appear from the document that we will obviously present later on — but that this was another important moment driven by the Socialist Party to gather contributions to the consensus that we want to obtain around the future infrastructure investment plan. We are now discussing the future because this is the time to do, the moment when, in advance, we first resorted to the strategic options for Portugal in the context of Portugal 2030 and now the infrastructures that will instrumentally support the development of this strategy. We are discussing the future, but let's not escape from the present and we have no problem with making the present balance sheet. We are discussing the future because we prepare and are running the works of the present, those we assume and those we are doing. Although we found a bleak picture of the preparation of infrastructure investments when we arrived at the government, we assumed the implementation of PETI3 +. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I repeat: we have assumed the execution of PETI3 +, giving a very different example of the tradition of breaking the proposals for planning of the previous government and then proposing more or less the same thing, which had also happened in the previous legislation. We assume the execution of PETI3 +, we solve the problems that have been left to us and put projects on the ground in the various sectors. in the highway, but especially in the railway and also in the ports, we were not left with engineering projects, studies, environmental assessments or, in many cases, sources of funding. The airports were privatized without a solution being defined and secured financing for the construction of a new airport in Lisbon, not even for the expansion of existing airport capacity. Public transport companies were in a situation of enormous fragility, after a brutal de-investment and reduction in the number of workers, as part of the 'the worse the better' strategy, because many of these companies were being privatized. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have been able to gradually recover from this brutal liability and the companies are on an upward course, not only in relation to the number of workers, whose bleeding has stagnated and we have begun to recover, but also in relation to the levels of service, which we are trying to improve. We negotiated with the airport dealership five years in advance of the expansion process of the airport capacity of the Lisbon region, while ensuring the execution of important investments at the other airports. With this, we should be able to start, already next year, works at Montijo’s complementary airport and perform other interventions at Humberto Delgado Airport that will enable you to increase your capacity and deal with increasing demand. We launched the 2020 Railway, which is the largest programme for modernisation of the Portuguese railway for many decades, with an investment of more than EUR 2000 million and involving the modernization and electrification of about half of the national rail network and the construction of the largest new railway line in this country of the last 100 years, with the connection of the Port of Sines and the southern ports to the border with Spain. We have works — not a PowerPoint — going through all the main railway axes. on the Mininho Line, we are finishing the electrification of the first section to Viana and are running works already on the stretch to the border. on the Douro Line, the works returned to the caíde-Marco section and the electrification to the Regua, but by our initiative, because otherwise they did not happen at all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the North Line, we finished the works of renewal of the road between Alfarelos and Pampilhosa and we also finished the work of renewal of the Valadares road to Gaia. It was reported yesterday. I do not know if Mr. Hélder Amaral was distracted, but we finished this work of renewing the Valadares road to Gaia. on the Beira Alta Line, we have already finished the works of renovation and consolidation of important stems, we have already launched works on the RIV from the link to the border, we are already in this agreement that was mentioned between the Beira Baixa Line and the Beira Alta Line and we are already in a line that was closed for a decade, which is the section between Covilhã and Guarda. Yes, we reopened, we didn't close or we'll close lines, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! I have just said that we have not closed and we are not going to close lines, which is to leave no doubt about this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the South International Corridor, we are in works between Elvas and the border and we launched this largest railway investment of the last 100 years in Portugal. Yeah, new line. It's 100 km, but it's 100 km that haven't been built 100 years ago in Portugal. There is a great difference between closing lines and opening a strategic line for the competitiveness of Alentejo, the southern region of the country and the southern ports in its connection to the Iberian hinterland. We must also launch — it is our purpose to do so still this year under the 2020 Railway — the electrification of the West Line and the Algarve Line. Finally, with regard to the road sector, which the PSD/CDS Government considered not to deserve the support of the Community funds, was a negative priority, and then, when we arrived at the government, it was time to do work - however, in the time of the previous government, the road was the negative priority - only the most significant dossier, the definition of the solution: the launch of the first structural job competition to modernise the IP3, which will go to the ground next year, already being in operation the stems in the Penacova area, whose intervention was most critical. The full modernisation of the IP3 will extend its route to four tracks by about 85 % of the route, substantially increasing mobility in the region and security in this way so important for the cohesion of the interior of Portugal. As I think you can see, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our debate on the future is open-minded in a work that seems to me to be honest, serious, concrete, intense and already bearing fruit that we have developed in this Parliament. It is this work that we also want to develop in the construction of the National Investment Programme. We therefore expect everyone — from the economy to society in general and politics, of course — to participate in this process of building the consensus that the country needs and that the Portuguese demand. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-19.u177	We have thus reached the end of the thematic debate requested by the PS Parliamentary Group on the National Investment Plan. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow, beginning at 3 p.m. with the following agenda item: point one, political declarations; point two, joint assessment of Petition No 430 / XIII / 3. a ( Federation of Fathers Associations of the Vila Nova de Gaia Council ) — They call for an urgent and effective response to the placement of operational assistants in Portuguese public schools and the Resolution Projects n. 1784 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — by the recognition and qualification of public school educational support staff, 1790 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government review in 2018 the ratio of educational action assistants of the public school in order to strengthen it, 1793 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government allow schools to quickly replace operational assistants in an extended low situation, 1794 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Need to review the ratio of educational action auxiliaries in public school and 1796 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Review and strengthening of the allocation ratio of operational assistants and technical assistants to ungrouped groups and schools; and point three, joint discussion of Petition No 293 / XIII / 2. a ( Daniel of the Conceição Gonçalves da Silva et al.) — They request the installation of a police station in the area of the parish of the New Avenues and of the Resolution Project No 1792 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the re-installation of a PSP team in the new Avenues Freguey area, with adequate effectiveness. Good afternoon to all and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 29 minutes.]]
