ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. The government is not yet present, so we will take advantage of this file. I would ask the Secretary, Mr Alves, to read it, following the vote on an opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and the Proposals for Law No 161 / XIII / 4 have been accepted by the President. a ( GOV ) — Maintains and generalizes the application of the simplified cadastral information system, which falls to 11. the Commission ; 162 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAM ) — Change the value added tax code ( CIVAC ) and return electricity to List I — Goods and services subject to a reduced rate of VAT, which falls to 5. the Commission ; 163 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAM ) — Eighteen amendments to the Statute of the National Health Service, approved by Decree-Law No. 11 / 93 of 15 January, which falls to 9. the Commission ; and 165 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAM ) — Amendment No 73 / 2013, of 3 September, which approved the Financial Scheme of Local Authorities and Intermunicipal Entities, which falls to 11. the Commission, with connection to 5. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were also admitted, the Bills No. 995 / XIII / 4. a ( Legislative Initiative of Citizens) — Maintenance and opening of pharmacy at the facilities of hospitals of the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 1026 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Assigns the collection of samples of water and biofilms in situations of clustering or outbreak to environmental health technicians ( first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; and 1027 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Consecrates the principle of the most favourable treatment for workers ( amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws Nos 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, 55 / 2014 of 25 August, 28 / 2015 of 14 April, 120 / 2015 of 1 September, 8 / 2016 of 1 April, 28 / 2016 of 23 August, 73 / 2017 of 16 August and 14 / 2018 of 19 March ), which goes down to 10. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were also admitted, Parliamentary Assessment No 70 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Decree-Law No 80 / 2018, of 15 October, laying down the principles and rules applicable to the composition, constitution, competences and functioning of ethics commissions that function in public, private and social health institutions as well as in higher education institutions that carry out clinical research and biomedical research centres that develop clinical research, and the Resolution Projects No 1870 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of urgent regulatory measures to protect species of seahorses in Portugal, which falls to 7. the Commission; 1871 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — By the autonomy, reopening of the emergency service and valuing the Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo ( Ovar ) ; 1872 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government update the School Insurance Regulation to include accidents occurring with motor-free velocities falling to 6. the Commission; 1873 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Strengthening Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital in Ovar ; and 1874 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government conclude the works at the Art School António Arroio. Mr President, it is also important to take into account the opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on suspension of office in accordance with Article 4(1) ( b ). the Statute of Deputies, of Deputy Joana Lima ( PS ), electoral circle of Porto, being replaced by Mr João Fonseca, on 15 November 2018, limiting itself to the period of the day indicated and ending at the end of that day. The opinion is in the sense of suspension and the replacement in question is to be admitted, since they meet the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the Government is already present, and we will therefore enter the agenda, with the speciality of the Proposal for a Law No 156 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2019. First of all, at the moment of the opening of the debate, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro, of the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The Socialist Government has presented a bad budget for the country. This budget brings a maximum tax burden on minimum public services; it is a lost opportunity that makes a redistribution of electoral system incomes and wastes the environment without making the structural reforms that the country needs nor the effective budgetary consolidation;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u5	Tell that to the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u6	... forgets, vehemently, the engine of sustained economic growth, which are companies, investment and exports; and, in the typical lack of political seriousness of Prime Minister Antonio Costa, is full of promises they have never wanted to fulfill. A governance and a PSD Budget would be quite different from these, but the opposition cannot make an alternative budget. In the PSD, we must, we can and we want to show our difference, and our difference, our alternative, are the 104 amendments that we present to and from the Portuguese. We present a first group of proposals to correct your most grueling errors and frauds in this Budget: the maximum tax burden; record capacitations; the absence of effective fiscal consolidation; the embassies of energy and culture VAT, of the early reforms and of the steps that are, after all, not for the whole country; and the promises that they have made, without ever wanting to comply, of the reduction of fuel tax or of time for teachers. We present a second group, with proposals that show a different path, a different strategy of sustained growth for the country in essential areas that were either completely forgotten by the Government of the Left or abandoned to the reliable conversation of this majority. There are dozens of measures to pull companies, investment and exports, to strengthen savings, to promote supply and lower housing costs, to pull around, to value regional autonomy and to take care of health and birth. The PSD presents 104 proposals that make the difference but keep the budget balance. Fifty-six of our proposals have no budgetary impact and the proposals that would effectively aggravate the budget balance are more than compensated by the various who reduce expenditure or increase revenue, such as the reduction of office spending, the condition of resources in school manuals, the elimination of tips reduction, measures to reduce debt, the replacement of subcontracting of medical companies, the dissolution of municipal PPPs (public-private partnerships) or the reduction of late payments and the reform of IRC. They have not tried in recent days to come up with the same conversation in 2013 and 2014 that the IRC reform has said! — would drop the recipe. We remember: in 2015, two years of full implementation of the reform in which the rate dropped twice what we now propose, what happened? The rate fell, but the revenue rose in two years, EUR 73 million. With this package, we have managed not only to cover the cost of the proposals presented by the PSD, but that would have an impact on the increase in the balance, but also some of your promises. For example: what they promised, and did not meet, in order to ensure neutrality in the ISP (tax on oil and energy products). Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD has made a constructive contribution. What did the government and the PS do? Perhaps because of the insecurity with the weakness of your Budget, they have walked between delirium and insult. Yes, delirium, when they invented costs! Your accounts, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are as serious and as true as the promise that they made to reduce the ISP, or the promise that they made to the teachers, or that the tax burden would not increase, that public investment would increase with your government, or your truth, that they did not know of the covering of Tanks. Your accounts are as serious as that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u8	It was the delirium, but also the insult. See there this fear of socialists, wanting to accuse others of spending money! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to spend many generations in this country until a socialist comes back to morale to accuse someone of being a spender. [[PSD applause.]] We don't forget! The country has not forgotten how many of you and your government have been there, taking the country to bankruptcy! With our 104 proposals, we give you an opportunity to do what you have forgotten, to honor your word a little more and to make the country's future a little better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u9	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : We value the advances entered in the initial proposal of the State budget, such as the increase in pensions, the freeness of school textbooks, the access to long-term worker reform or the end of the special payment on behalf of micro and small businesses, but we understand that it is possible to go further. It is precisely with this perspective that we will take part in this debate, in the speciality. The CFP presented almost two hundred amendments to the State budget for 2019: proposals to defend, restore and conquer rights for workers; proposals to improve public services and social functions of the State, in health, education, social security, culture or housing; proposals to support agricultural and forestry producers, fishermen, as well as micro and small businesses; proposals to ensure more justice and fiscal equity. A wide range of proposals that improve the initial proposal of the State budget and respond to people's problems and to the country's development needs. The debate today highlights, of course, the proposal for achieving career progression, with the full counting of service time, ensuring that this right is fully realized for special career workers. We also highlight three other proposals for which, as a result of the perseverance of the CFP, the Government has already taken the commitment of its approval in the speciality: the proposal to strengthen the progressiveity of the additional to the IMI, by creating a new step over EUR 2 million, at a rate of 1,5 %, which will ensure a fairer and more appropriate taxation of the high value real estate heritage; the proposal to improve the conditions of access to pensions for workers in mining and mining, as well as workers in the mining and stone processing industry, guaranteeing them the same regime as currently applicable to workers in the mines;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u12	... and the proposal to extend to subscribers of the General Pension Fund the conditions of access to the reform of workers with long careers, eliminating the penalty of the sustainability factor and ensuring the convergence of social protection systems for workers in the public and private sectors. These are just and necessary proposals, for which the CFP has been beating for a long time and will now finally become a reality. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The PS and the government, on their own option, have relied on the European Union's tax and policy jersey and have set as a absolute priority the accelerated reduction of deficit and debt. by doing so, they condition the answer that could and should be given to national problems. The PCP does not flinch or get stuck in this strength shirt. For us, priority continues to be—as it has always been! — the response to the needs of workers, the people and the country. It was for this purpose that we have been in the debate, in general, of the State budget, that is with this objective that we are now in the debate in the specialty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u13	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government of the Socialist Party presented to the country another good budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The debate in the specialty has shown that the Government's proposed budget is responsible, rigorous and gives continuity to the policies that have brought to the country and to the Portuguese the good economic and social results. This budget continues the policy of return on income and reintroduction and recovery of rights, because it was this path that raised the confidence of the economy and Portuguese and confidence relaunched investment, and investment generated economic growth and created jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u16	In three years, tax relief in the IRS (IRS tax on income tax for natural persons) exceeds EUR 1 billion; cuts in wages and pensions have been returned; lower pensions have been increased in the IRS (tax on income tax for natural persons) in three years; lower pensions have been increased in an extraordinary way, year after year; social benefits have been increased, with examples of family income tax and supplementary support for the elderly; a new social benefit has been set up; a new social benefit has been created, the Social Benefit Benefit for inclusion, aimed at people with disabilities who are in very difficult economic situations ; at the end of many years, the migration balance has been increased once again positive; the migration balance has grown again again again; the national minimum wage is increased every year; the national minimum national wage is increased annually; the minimum national wage is raised by approximately 320,000; unemployment has been created; unemployment falls to one half; unemployment has fallen unemployment unemployment unemployment; labour pre unemployment has decreased; labour pre employment has decreased; the average average average growth; the average average wage has increased; the economy growth has increased; the economy has increased; the economy is increased; the real GDP; the real GDP growth; the real GDP is the real GDP; the real GDP; the real real real GDP; the real real GDP is is the real real GDP; the real GDP is the real real real real real real is the real real real real real real real GDP; the real is the real is is the real real real real real GDP; the real is the real is the real is the real is the real GDP the real GDP the real is the real is the real GDP the real GDP the real GDP the real real real real GDP the real GDP the real GDP the real GDP the real GDP the real GDP the real GDP is is is is is the real GDP is the real is the real GDP is the real GDP the real GDP is the real GDP is the real is the real GDP the real GDP the real GDP the real is the real is the real is the real is the real is the is the real is the real is the is the real is the is the is the is the is the is the is the is the is the is the is the real is is is the is the is the is the is the real is the real is the real is the real is the real is the real is the real is the is the real is the real is the real is is is the
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u17	Mr President, I would just ask you to interrupt for a second to ask the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing by to sit down, otherwise we have no way of working. Please, Mr. Deputies, continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. As I was saying, labour productivity has increased 6 % and this path has recovered and strengthened the external credibility of our country. In two years, we saved EUR 1400 million in public debt interest, which has enabled increased public investment in health, education, transport and housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u20	The State Budget submitted by the Government guarantees the continuity of these policies and in 2019 there will be a further increase in the minimum of existence in the IRS, which will lead to 27,000 families no longer paying IRS. The Budget for 2019 will bring a further extraordinary increase in pensions, which targets 78 % of pensioners and more than 90 % of social security pensioners. There will be an increase in public service wages and social benefits will be strengthened again. The unique transit pass will be created, a revolutionary measure for collective transport, which will generate enormous savings for hundreds of thousands of families. The VAT rate (value added tax) will be lower in the energy invoice, relative to the power contracted. The year 2019, through the Budget, will also present the end of the special payment on behalf of companies, a relief to the treasury of huge SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises ), and will bring an increase of 34 % of public investment to strengthen investment in health, transport, housing and education. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS participates in this discussion process in the speciality with the aim of strengthening some of the policies of the Budget in the areas of work and social security, higher education, health and the economy. The speciality process cannot disfigure the Government's budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] During this debate, there is a country out there that awaits a Budget on the path that has been followed, but that it is equally responsible and rigorous. We cannot throw out so many achievements and those who are used to presenting a Budget per year have to know how to "marry" ideas with responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u21	Mr Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Left Block has fought a lot for each of these budgets of the Socialist Party's Government to be Budgets not backward but forward in fiscal justice and social rights over the next four years. This budget is no exception. It is due to this effort, also from the Block, that, for the first time in history, the propines will be reduced,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u24	... that we take another step so that more people can be reformed without the weight of the sustainability factor and that today we are discussing the scope of the reduction of culture's VAT. We want to continue this path in the field of expertise and it was in this sense that we tabled our proposals for amendments to the State budget. They are proposals consistent with our programme and with what we have always defended, are proposals for continuity of what we stand for in the past and in previous budgets, are proposals for compromise with the budgetary negotiations we have made, but above all, with commitment to the people we want to respond to: the workers, the public and the private, the precarious, pensioners, the public services, the poorest, our people, our people. It is to these people that we want to give an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u26	Mrs. Members, all the proposals we have brought to this budget, those that increase revenue with more fiscal justice, those that increase expenditure with more social justice, have been studied and weighted. We do not put forward any proposals that cannot and should not be approved. We do not put forward proposals for irritation, just as we do not vote for provocation. During these three days, we will vote for proposals from all parties with parliamentary seats, but no one can expect the Left Block to whiten the past on the right or let the right confuse the country with what it actually thinks about the present. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last budget of this Parliament. It is a Budget with many limitations but also with very important advances. This is the last budget of this parliamentary majority, a parliamentary majority that was set up to rescue the country from a project on the right to destroy social rights and labour rights. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not forget where we have seen this majority in parliament and we are sure that the country does not either. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u27	You have the floor for one speech, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I would like to begin this initial intervention precisely by taking a sentence from the PSD, also at this initial stage, in which the PSD clearly assumed that a State budget of the PSD would be completely different from that. Of course, yes, Mr. António Leitão Amaro! We all know that, because we all remember the budgets of the PSD/CDS government and the massacre of the solutions that gave the country! We all remember that the PSD and CDS did not really want to end with the overtax of the IRS; we all remember perfectly that the PSD and the CDS assumed that wages would not be restored again; we all remember that the low taxes that the PSD and the CDS wanted were those of the IRC (tax on the income of the collective people), and enormously, for large companies, but not for citizens, at the level of the IRS. Therefore, it is clear that a PSD and CDS budget would be very different and would be much worse. And we all know, too, that many of the proposals that the PSD and the CDS are now presenting, at the level of this Budget, would not be presented if the Budget were the PSD and CDS. Let's not be naive, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u29	I'll be right back to that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u30	With regard to this State budget, what matters, for the Greens, is that it continues to replace incomes which, in our perspective, is fundamental. But we had warned the Government of one issue: that this State budget could not fail to respond to an increase in public investment, because it is essential that our public services can actually function in conditions and respond to those that are the needs of citizens. In the debate on the speciality, what the Greens are going to contribute, and they have contributed, through the proposals presented here and which will, of course, be discussed, to improve the answers that the Budget can give. in this sense, we have very concrete proposals to improve the conditions of our schools; we have concrete proposals to strengthen the conservation of nature in our country; we have concrete answers to the level of rail reinforcement, to the level of maintenance, particularly within the country and on the lines that serve territorial cohesion; we have concrete proposals to the level of alternative mobility, particularly in bicycles, large urban centres; we have responses to the level of boosting investment in culture, especially for artistic creation; we have responses to the level of support for sterilization of animals—is this new paradigm that needs to be implemented, to the level of elimination of architectural barriers and to other areas that we consider fundamental. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what matters now is, in fact, to launch ourselves into the debate in the specialty and to improve those which are the responses given to the country. That is precisely why the Greens are contributing. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP Member Paulo Sá.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u31	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mr João Piinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The budgetary debate has so far been focused on what the Government is proposing and we are discussing what the government has brought us in budgetary matters. From today on, we discussed the alternatives and discussed, from then on, the alternatives that the CDS presents here. He tried — and also the Socialist Party, to some extent, the parties that support this government — to try a discussion on credibility for the submission of proposals. We did not run away from this debate. On credibility for the submission of proposals, there are essentially two points: one is that of budgetary consolidation, another is that of social sensitivity. With regard to budgetary consolidation, who has the most legitimacy? Is it the one who brought a deficit of 11 % to 3 %, making an 8-percentual fiscal consolidation, which was the PSD and CDS during a four-year legislature, or is it the one who received a deficit of 3 % and cannot lead to a positive balance? As regards credibility on consolidation, you, in a legislature, will consolidate a little more than one third of what we have consolidated in the same term of the legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u34	Therefore, we do not accept lessons on credibility in the area of budgetary consolidation. [[CDS-PP applause.]] On social responsibility and income replacement, the previous government received the minimum wage frozen and frozen it; the previous government received the salaries of the public service frozen and thawed them; the previous government received a Memorandum requiring it to freeze pensions and freeze them; the former Government received a country in deep recession and handed over a country in economic growth. Therefore, in terms of reintroduction of income, in terms of reversal of situations of real social injustice, we also have no lessons to receive,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u36	... because you gave us a negative country in all indicators and received a positive country in all indicators. We are also talking. [[CDS-PP applause.]] With regard to the replacement of income, what distinguished the Socialist Party programme from the PSD and CDS programme, and even the Government Programme of the PSD and CDS programme, was not the replacement of income, it was the pace of the replacement of income. And if you could discuss this until last year's budget, which came to this budget, our replacement would be exactly the same. So that's not what distinguishes us either. We therefore present the proposals with the legitimacy of those who have consolidated, in a legislature, more than you have consolidated, with the legitimacy of those who have received all the negative social indicators, all the freezings, and delivered all the positive social indicators...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u37	Increasing poverty, social exclusion! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u38	... and all the beginnings and, moreover, with the legitimacy of those who had committed themselves to making exactly the same replacement of income. So let us concentrate our proposals, firstly, on transparency, on continuing to limit the captivating with which you continue to deceive your partners and deceive the country. Our proposals are of limitation of the deception that were all these Budgets,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u39	... presented by the Socialist Party, and they are proposals in the sense of budgetary truth, that the Left Block and the PCP also try to keep hidden, but that we will not fail here to point out. For each criticism, we have a proposal. We said that this budget was a missed opportunity because we cannot comply with the situation of 17 countries growing more than Portugal only in the European Union. We therefore put forward proposals for economic growth and proposals for the competitiveness of companies. We criticised the fact that four years of Socialist Budgets had done zero for the reversal of the tragic demographic situation in the country and, therefore, we put forward proposals to stimulate birth and enhance the role of Portuguese families. We have criticised the fact that there are not, from the budgetary point of view, sufficient incentives to reverse also the serious situation in terms of territory, concentration on the coast and depopulation of the interior and, therefore, we have put forward proposals, such as that of the tax status of the interior, to reverse that situation. Then, in fiscal justice, this government uses and abuses the greatest tax burden ever... [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u40	... and, therefore, we have put forward proposals to reverse it, such as the elimination of all the additional ISP (tax on oil and energy products) and not just one part, and only for petrol. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u41	Also in the context of social sensitivity, which escapes this budget, we have put forward proposals, such as that of the status of informal caregivers. There are many proposals in many areas, with the expectation that, while the proposals will certainly not turn this bad budget into a good budget, it will depend on the Socialist Party, the PCP and the Left Block have the responsibility to turn their bad budget into a somewhat less bad budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u42	On behalf of the Government, Mr Pedro Nuno Santos, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I wanted to start by greeting you all. We are starting the process of discussion and voting on the budget, especially at a high time in Parliament, with regard to the debate on the State budget. More than 900 proposals have been submitted, which shows Parliament's vitality. If they asked the government, we would prefer our proposal not to be altered, but that would not be democracy. Democracy is Parliament and it is a sign of the vitality of this democracy that we have parliamentary groups to put forward proposals. I am of the time when the parliamentary group that supported the Government was merely presenting the proposals that the Government was asking it to submit to it to correct the bill. [[All right!]] [[The CDS-PP's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u44	But this is not the case today, and Portuguese democracy is winning it. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] The goal was to give everyone a compliment, but I failed! [[PS deputy Fernando Rocha Andrade's laughs.]] I wanted to address a special word to the parliamentary majority. Three years ago, there were very few who believed that we would last longer than a few weeks. Nevertheless, today we are beginning to discuss the fourth State Budget of this Government in the speciality. What the left did in Portugal was historic: it increased its political autonomy and ended with the monopoly of alliances, understandings and agreements that only the right had. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was not only a political victory from the point of view of parliamentary arrangements or majority support, it was also a victory in terms of political, economic and social results that we can talk about today, without any of the parties—Left bloc, Communist Party Portuguese, Ecological Party « The Greens »—if we had to cancel or dissolve, as we were used to seeing, in the past, when there were agreements between the PSD and the CDS. None of the parties that make up this majority have lost their autonomy or their identity nor has it dissolved or ceased to defend what they have always believed in. This is no less good for us or for the country, it's better! Democracy goes richer when the parties do not dissolve, do not cancel and preserve their identity, as has been achieved with this majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are far from having our problems solved. We have a country with high levels of poverty and inequality and with high problems in its public services. We, these four parties that make up the majority, are more aware of it than anyone else in this country, but we also know, we are aware and proud of the work we have done together in the last three years. The main criticism — the first, however abandoned — that was made to this State budget was very close to that which had been made to the remaining State budgets. They said it was electoralism. When I was in opposition, I always understood that the criticism of electoralism should never be addressed to those in power. It always seemed to me that it was a way of taking the following: "Proposals are good, I cannot criticize them, the most I can say is that they are electoralists. Do not keep on seeking. ” To be fair, the PSD, when it accuses a certain document or the State budget of being an electorate, is not wanting to praise it, as it is evident, because it understands that electoralism is indeed bad. And the PSD understands that electoralism is indeed bad because it is its conception of « State budget », as well as of « state reforms ». For the PSD, reforms that are reforms, such as Budget that is Budget, have to hurt, have to have a punitive character, have to be difficult, have to be against the people, have to be against the population, because, if not, they are electoralists. That is why he uses the term 'electoralism', because that is his political concept. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u45	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u46	The economy is recovering and it was only lacking that this would not result in an improvement in the political response to Portuguese. If the economy improves, the Portuguese have to live better! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u47	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u48	But there was an evolution: the criticism now is not of electoralism, it is of lies! This is a budget of lies, as it has always been, during this last governance of the PS... [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] Sometimes they had to hit palms! They say the PSD and the CDS that this is a budget of lies and that they're going to dismantle the ambush, the lies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u49	Finally, a truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u50	Let's continue with the truth, Mr. Deputies. But they needed to explain it, because we present ourselves here with the credibility of those who have already presented three budgets and have scrupulously complied with them! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We meet the goals and the measures... [[PSD protests.]] I was asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen with me. Have the courage to address any reformed Portuguese, the overwhelming majority of the Portuguese reformed, and to ask you whether it is true or it is a lie that you have already had an increase of 20 € in your pension, which will add 10 € in early January! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Is it a lie that the pensions of most Portuguese pensioners will increase 30 € after years of freezing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u51	Who froze them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u52	Who worked a whole life... [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u53	Who froze them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u54	Is it true or is it a lie that reforms in Portugal will increase 30 €? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's true or it's a lie, or it's a trick, that family allowance, for example, 1. the step, between 12 and 36 months, increased from 36 € to 150 €? Oh, my God! Is that true or is it a lie? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Is it true or is it a lie that the overtax is already finished in 2017? Oh, my God! [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] It's true, or it's a lie, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u55	That's a lie! It ended in 2018!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u56	Good, they're saying it was in 2018...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u57	I call on the Secretary of State not to engage in dialogue with the Members. Members individually.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u58	Mr President, I am speaking, I am not in dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u59	Please continue, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u60	Mr. Secretary of State is asking questions and we are answering!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u61	Those are rhetorical questions, I'll try to do them differently. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u62	Ah, but they're green!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u63	They will say, in a next intervention — not now, please, because I would like to finish — whether it is true or not that there was a reduction in the IRS to a considerable part of the Portuguese taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u64	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u65	Is it true or is it a lie that VAT for restoration has dropped? Oh, my God! They will also say, in the next intervention, whether it is true or not, that the social rate, which benefits 800 000 families, means a reduction, for one third, of the energy bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u66	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u67	Mr. João Almeida will already explain why it is a lie. He'll explain! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u68	They're houses, they're not families!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u69	Okay, so it's 600,000! You'll explain, sir! Is it true or is it a lie that, at the end of this legislature, school textbooks will be free for the student population in Portugal? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Is it true or is it a lie that the workers who receive the lowest salary in this country, in 2015, won €505 and, from January 1, 2019, will earn €600? Oh, my God! Is that true or is it a lie? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u70	And how much did they win in 2011? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u71	Is it true or is it a lie that careers have been frozen? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u72	Who froze them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u73	Faces, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I know they continue to go to 2010, but in 2018 we have presented a Budget that continues to fulfill what we have been saying since 2015. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] We will all have the opportunity to confront the Portuguese people so that we can know who he will give reason, to us or to the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS, us or Mr Aguiar Branco. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese people have a government that represents them, the Portuguese people have a government that respects them, and today we are presenting ourselves here with the credibility of those who have already fulfilled three State budgets! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u74	Mrs. Members, let us then begin the discussion, in the specialty, of the Bill No 156 / XIII / 4. a — Approves the State budget for 2019, and we start with Article 4. — The conditional use of budgetary appropriations is also under discussion of all proposals for amendments relating to this article, in particular proposals 310 - C, 694 - C and 777 - C, submitted respectively by the CDS-PP, the PSD and the Left Block. Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, recognizing captivations as budgetary management instruments and ensuring the normal functioning of public services, proposes a maximum limit in this Article which will be 75 % of the initial children of 2018. We impose a limit, because we do not accept that captivating is in itself a government action tool used to deceive the Portuguese and the coalition partners of the government. Moreover, when this government is the champion of the abusive and exorbitant permanent recourse to captivating without any justification and, of course, assumes, in a blatant manner, that it will not execute, in the Budget for 2019, about 590 million euros. In three years, this government captured more than the previous government in an entire legislature: it was about EUR 2000 million. If there are champions of some ranking around the Budget, they are this government and Minister Mário Centeno — recently recognized by the surname The Cactivator —,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u76	... that prolongs austerity in the form of captivating, leaving public services, such as health and public transport, practically in need. Yes, you need a brake — and in the end! — in your captivity, but it is not because they need brakes, it is because they have the deposit on the reserve, as a result of your political options. Through overcrowding, they lead the country to suffocation and, by inherently, take quality of life to the Portuguese, even putting some of them at risk. We also propose a standard that prevents seizures into independent regulatory entities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, keeping the budgets of the regulators « in captivity » — in some cases, the seizures even reached 40 % — represents maintaining a weakening pattern of the regulators, as has been promoted by this Government. No one understands that they have been able to carry out very important investigations in the context of the national economy. Only with truly independent entities can we avoid an economy and a society captured by obscure interests. Finally, Mr President, I leave a challenge to the Left Block. In the last debate on this subject, the Left Block agreed with the diagnosis, but said that the moment was not right, which would be in the State Budget. Well, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, we are here to discuss this issue and we are waiting for the support of the Left Block. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u77	In this connection, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u78	Mr President, I believe that the intervention we have just heard will have been the first of several that we are going to see in which the PSD tries to create confusion about the use of various budgetary concepts. in this case, the confusion is about the concept of 'capitation', in which the honourable Member begins by declaring that he believes and accepts the concept to destroy it soon thereafter. But there is confusion, above all, because the PSD aims to equate, in people's heads, what is a Budget in which nominally cuts the expenditure and another Budget in which the expenditure rises, but the pace of this rise is subject to a control mechanism. It should be remembered that, as mentioned here by the Council of Public Finance, still in last week's hearings, in this Budget for 2018 or in the Budget for 2017, the percentage of expenditure subject to conditional use, i.e. captivating, is in line with what is traditional in Portugal. Why is the overall volume of captivity greater in these three budgets than in the four? Well, perhaps because of what Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget also observed in his hearing: nowadays, captives are greater, because budgets are greater, because expenditure ceilings have increased...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u79	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u80	...to give rise to the recovery of income and rights and, therefore, to correct those measures which were supposedly of consolidation, but which, as it has been seen, were always temporary budgetary measures. Finally, Mrs. Members, since there has been talk here of legitimacy and moral authority, there is very little moral authority to criticise control and budgetary management measures which, for four years, have always presented Budgets which have cut down on nominal expenditure and which, nevertheless, have not been able to comply with any of these budgets. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u81	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 8. o — Budget transfers and proposed amendments, including proposals 191 - C, 471 - C and 714 - C, respectively submitted by the NAP, the CDS-PP and the PSD. Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Two weeks ago, in the debate of the State budget, the Government announced the planned funds for maintenance in Transtex and Soflus in 2019. Now, on the basis of government figures itself, it is money that exceeds the values that have been spent on maintaining these companies by the end of September.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u83	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u84	This confirms that the values announced by the Government for these companies are clearly insufficient, as in fact they were already in the initial forecast of the State budget. The figures in the budget implementation show that resources need to be effectively strengthened for the operational capacity of Transtex and Soflusa, but more than that, it is the concrete life that demonstrates this every day. The proposal of the CFP is to reinforce by EUR 5, 25 million the amount to be transferred from the State budget to Transtex and Soflusa to EUR 8, 45 million in order to ensure the necessary expenditure for the maintenance of their fleets of ships and points, taking into account the amounts incurred in the current year and the value of inflation. This morning, as we speak here, there are problems in the crossing of the Tejo : there is no transport of vehicles, because the two ferryboats are out of service due to failure. There's a country out there, gentlemen. Members, who need public transport and that requires serious investment and a strengthening of funds in the budget. They have dropped the PCP proposal a year ago, with the results seen; now they do not repeat the mistake. In the morning, people don't need promises, they need boats; companies don't need ads, they need operational means and responsiveness. The proposal of the CFP is a concrete contribution to progress in this direction. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u85	In the same context, Mr Luís Marques Guedes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer here to two proposals tabled by the Social Democratic Party concerning this article. First of all, the fight against crime and within it, the fight against corruption cannot spend their lives filling the politicians' mouths, and then that does not have any kind of reflection in reality. In particular, the incomprehensible replacement of the Attorney General of the Republic to the Assembly of the Republic cannot now add an investment in the area of research by the Judicial Police ( PJ ) to the phenomenon of corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u88	The PSD therefore proposes a strengthening of the budget of the Ministry of Justice for the Judiciary Police in the area of criminal investigation of EUR 5 million. On the other hand, it is not understandable to keep the Constitutional Court in a situation of lack of resources and remedies, much claimed by the Court itself, even at a time when the Assembly of the Republic is preparing a package in the area of transparency which will increase competence to the Constitutional Court. It is only out of hypocrisy that this increase in competence does not add up to the Assembly of the Republic as well. The PSD therefore proposes an increase in the budget of the Constitutional Court in this area in the order of EUR 4 million. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u89	To speak on this subject, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u90	Mr. President, telegraphically, I just want to say that we spoke in legacies recently, and the truth is that, with regard to the legacy of the PSD / CDS government on the Judicial Police, nothing better than a title of the September 2016 Newspaper, according to which the PSD / CDS government « left the PJ in a dramatic situation ». [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u91	It is obvious that the budget proposal strengthens the appropriations for the Judicial Police, but what I wanted to say - that is the reason for my intervention - has to do with the Constitutional Court. And it is good to note that in this Parliament there has been a significant reinforcement of funds, in fact, it is sufficient to say that, with regard to staff spending, the initial appropriation planned for 2019 is higher, in about one third, than 2015, which is not just. But the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is not insensitive to the content of the letter sent by the President of the Constitutional Court to His Excellency the President of the Assembly of the Republic and, therefore, we will not cease to act in accordance with the vote that we shall do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u92	There's a good proposal from the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u93	I would ask the parliamentary committees to write in advance the Members who will use the floor in the debate of the various articles, because it is very difficult for the Bureau to change the entries on the debates. Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this context, and at the outset, I stress that even with regard to the Entity of Accounts the CDS also has a proposal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u95	That's not right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u96	... but on Article 8. the, in general, and considering that, from our point of view, this budget debate cannot be, and it should not be, as has been said here, a closed debate, starting with the fact that there is a set of matters, many of which have to do with the statute of the Judicial Police, which says that it has never been in a situation like the current one, with the statute of the judicial officers and with the status of the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), on which the Government, year after year, Budget after year, says that it will solve, says that it will bring out the law, but until now the law has not gone out and the problem has never been solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u97	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u98	in this respect, the CDS has and has always had an absolute position of coherence: we are advocates of a State budget in which the functions of sovereignty — which are, moreover, one of the major failures, but the main, of this government — are valued and in which there are means to value them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u100	That is why we propose a strengthening of money so that more men and women can enter either the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) or the PSP ( Public Security Police ).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u102	In the PSP there are not even planned admissions and, as regards the GNR, considering up to its new functions, notably in the fight against fires, the planned admissions are clearly insufficient. And taking the logic of Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs here a little while ago, it is possible to ask: Is it true or is it a lie that the effectors in PSP and GNR are clearly insufficient? Oh, my God! True, Mr. Secretary of State, they are insufficient! Is it true or is it a lie that you promise, year after year, to invest in PSP, GNR and PJ and, year after year, to leave the investment aside? Oh, my God! It is absolutely true, Mr Secretary of State! It is true or it is a lie that there are facilities, such as those of the Bella Vista and those of the Help, in Lisbon, and others, by the country outside, which are degraded and falling, without the minimum working conditions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u104	...and that, year after year, the gentlemen there will put some drops in the Budget, saying that they will do the work, but the work is never done and the facilities are getting worse and worse? Oh, my God! Absolutely true, Mr. Secretary of State! Is it true or is it a lie that the average age of men who are fighting crime in the street, risking their lives day after day, is greater than 40 years, when they should be in their 30s? Oh, my God! That's absolutely true, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u106	To conclude, it is true or it is a lie that we have more and more news of situations of insecurity, of complaints from the people, of complaints from the traders — and, following the logic of what I have just said, is for these people that the Budget is made, that the Budget should be addressed, in order to resolve their concerns and concerns — and that there are more and more complaints? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u108	Is it true or is it a lie that men who have to guarantee our safety are fighting more and more demands and difficulties to ensure it? Oh, my God! Our proposal is a coherent exercise,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u110	...of the model of governance that we defend, that we always defend in the past and that we continue to defend today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u111	We move on to Article 9. o — Budgetary changes. You have the floor by the Government, Mr. Secretary of State of the Local Authorities, Carlos Miguel.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my compliments. Article 9. the, as well as Article 69. the, discusses a proposal presented by the PSD that aims to decentralization or, better speaking, that aims to postpone decentralization. Indeed, just like the others. Members recall, the framework law, adopted last July, provides that the Government has an obligation to negotiate or consensualize with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities all sectoral diplomas and then, once negotiated, approve them. That is what the Government has done and today we have all the sectoral diplomas approved by the Government and half of them promulgated by the President of the Republic. in these diplomas, what is expected is that the Government will notify, one by one, the Portuguese municipalities about the money to be transferred, concerning the competences that will be transferred — the financial envelope corresponding to each of them — and that, after being assessed by the municipalities themselves, the Government, through an order signed by three State Secretaries, will carry out these transfers. What the PSD proposes here is a different method that goes beyond this, i.e. the government cannot make these municipal transfers to the municipality, going to seek the budget of the respective ministry and inserting into the Ministry of Internal Administration, read local authorities, but to present a law where these same transfers are expected. This mechanism will, by law, require that decentralization not take place at the beginning of 2019 to most likely be done at the beginning of 2020. We are used to this process and, in this process, we are used to the PSD being part of the solution, and it was part of it. With this proposal, PSD is part of the problem. With this proposal, the PSD will block decentralisation and, with this blockade, we end up delaying decentralisation for one year, as far as all transfers binding on the financial package are concerned. The Government wants to carry out the decentralization approved in the Assembly of the Republic. This reform can even be done through a decree-law, but to do it through a law is to refer to the calendars something which is required by the Portuguese municipalities today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u114	My fellow Members, in our understanding, is not the time to go back to decentralization and it is not the time to go back to the agreement which, in good time, was concluded between the government and the leadership of the PSD. Decentralisation is a further value for our democracy, it is a value for the public sector of the state and, Mr President, it is a value for the public sector of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not time to move forward or postpone what is planned, which is legislated and that people and municipalities are waiting for. I hope that in this House there will be a good sense of thought to make it depend on the transfer of money from a law is to put a year on those same transfers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u115	On the same article, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course you want Article 9. Article 69 is required. it is very important for us to continue and achieve decentralization. In addition, we also know the importance and relevance of the Fund for Financing Decentralisation ( FFD ), which is the backbone of this reform. The PSD proposal for this article, as Mr. Secretary of State pointed out, will create distances, slowness and may in some way block the process in 2019. We are sure that the PSD does not want this blockade. In fact, the agreement between the Government and the PSD on 18 April was fundamental for us to be able to move this process forward, this great reform of the State. We therefore propose to the PSD that in its proposal for an amendment to Article 69. the, insert the reference to a decree-law instead of mentioning « a bill containing the maps with the amounts of the FFD from appropriations(...) ». By virtue of the decree, we would be able to address this issue, maintain the speed of the process and we would not fail to confer the transparency and strength that it must have, which was surely the objective of the PSD proposal, i.e. to secure the process and transparency. In this way, this transparency would be safeguarded. I wonder if they are available to make this change in order to ensure that the process is not blocked and, on the contrary, continues with the imperative that the same substance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u117	Let's move on to Article 13. o — Transfers to foundations. Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for this article, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents a proposal on the financing of the National Railway Museum, located in the city of Entronicamento. This is an infrastructure that has a valuable internationally recognized spoil. It is from the history of our country that we speak, as we see, for example, with symbols such as the Royal Train and the Presidential Train. This is a museum belonging to the Foundation National Railway Museum Armando Ginestal Machado. In the legislation establishing its founding council, it was determined that its headquarters was in the Enthronement, an inseparably linked city, either by its genesis, or by its history, to rail transport. However, the Foundation has been experiencing a difficult economic and financial situation since 2011 with the reduction of its budget in the order of 50 %. This happened because of the cuts that were made in support of the foundations by the previous government, despite the truly encouraging numbers of the flow to the Museum, revealing all the potential existing in its husbandry. Recognizing the importance of the Museum for the region and for the country, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents a proposal to exempt the transfer limits of the founders and the equivalents to the Foundation of the Museum, allowing the essential financial value for its maintenance and necessary investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u119	With regard to the same article, Mr. Carlos Matias, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2017, the first award for the Best Public Event of the World at BEA World Festival, with 300 candidatures from 27 countries, came to Portugal with the Presidential Train, developed in a partnership between the National Railway Museum and a company. Also last year, this museum, based in the Enthronement, was considered by the public as one of the five best national museums to receive families. However, due to lack of funding, the Foundation National Railway Museum Armando Ginestal Machado, an absolutely credible entity, has lived on the threshold of survival, constantly threatened. However, without the legislative amendment proposed by the Budget Act, none of the founding entities can increase the financial transfer to the Museum, even if they want to do so — and they want. Once again, we propose that this impediment be removed and that the National Railway Museum Foundation join the list of exceptions to the blocking of financial transfers. We hope that after a year, all parties have understood how important it is to save this project so valuable to our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u121	We turn to Chapter III, Section I, Article 16. o — Remunerative valuations, and the proposals of the Greens, the CDS-PP and the PSD. Mr. Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Fatima Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, throughout this legislature, the Government has made budgetaryly responsible choices, but also strategically intelligent choices for the future of public administration. We combine, in all our choices, the weighting of sustainability with a vision of the future and we prepare a strong public administration capable of designing and implementing public policies oriented to citizens and to serve the country better and better. To achieve this purpose we articulate the choices we make about three dimensions: to value workers, to improve working environments and to modernize public management, choices that the State Budget for 2019 reflects in a coherent set of measures. The Budget for 2019 has a particular relevance for the Public Administration, as it shows the fulfilment of all the commitments set out in the Government Programme at the beginning of the Legislation. And it goes further to the extent that the macroeconomic scenario has made it possible to meet the demands of workers who were not initially contemplated, with a reduction to half the period initially considered for defrosting careers. We're doing it and we're going further. In 2019, the Government will consolidate a path of return to a sustainable normality in the Public Administration, completing a cycle of recovery of rights and progressively re-establishing normality in management in order to improve the income of workers in public functions and to cover as many workers as possible with remuneration valuations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, normality is first and foremost reflected in the development of careers. The defrosting of promotions and advances in the careers of employees of the Public Administration began in 2018, re-establishing in this legislation, in just two years, the full normality of remuneration valuations. This is the Government's most relevant commitment to public administration and is also the measure with greater budgetary impact. Article 16 is in this line. the, in the same way as expected in 2018, establishes the remuneration valuations. We're doing it and we're going further. Normality is also reflected, secondly, in the recognition of merit. Therefore, a set of management instruments that have been prevented or very limited is reinstated. Thus, the possibility of managerial changes of remunerative valuation, of change in the position of remuneration under the General Public Service Labour Act is resumed and a mechanism of performance premiums is also re-established in broader forms. In order to promote timely compliance with workers' rights and to reflect the relevance that the Government attaches to these measures, it is determined to establish efficiency objectives and targets for the timely realization of remuneration valuations, which will be relevant to the evaluation of public bodies' leaders. The Budget also guarantees an overall vision of the Public Administration, aligning the options for the administrative public sector, for the business public sector and for regulatory entities, stressing the prevalence of the provisions established through collective labour regulation instruments. We're doing it and we're going further. Thirdly, this Budget also takes steps to restore normality in management, restating other instruments with a remuneration character. That is why in Article 17. — allow me to move on to this article — the possibility of using an instrument to encourage mobility is reintroduced, the ability to offer workers an additional pay position while they are in interservice mobility. On the other hand, the mechanism for the negotiation of the remuneration position in the competitive procedures provided for in Article 38 is again activated. the General Law of Labour in Public Functions. These instruments are regulated to be used in a strategic way so that as many workers as possible have remuneration value in 2019 and at the same time to promote equity, articulating the instruments between themselves in order to ensure the balance in the conjugation of their effects. We fulfill our commitments and go further, managing the present with focus on the future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, so that we can manage the present with focus on the future, new measures are planned that reflect the Government's strategy for public administration. in this logic, incentives to stimulate efficient and innovative practices are extended to regional administration and local administration. workers who organize themselves in teams and carry out projects with measurable efficiency and innovation results can be assigned monetary and non-pecuniary incentives, contributing to their active participation in the permanent improvement of public services. On the other hand, we are committed to promoting the improvement of working conditions, we have introduced efficient and responsible management objectives for workers in the evaluation and accountability frameworks of public bodies to promote reconciliation between private time and professional time, and the Government's commitment to the allocation of public workers' services and its qualification is further strengthened. We have already assumed the need for multi-annual forecasting of effectiveness and the recruitment of 1,000 qualified workers with higher education is planned to rejuvenate and train the Public Administration in order to strengthen competence centres, strategic areas for the design and planning of public policies and their digital transformation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government is working to ensure that the Public Administration has an attractive and sustainable future that offers professional and personal development pathways to those and those working in it. For this reason, we argue that regaining normalcy in the management of Public Administration is more than creating the conditions for workers to resume the regular development of their careers. We go further because we follow the great transformations that have come to take place in public administrations and in people's management models. For this reason, no investment can be in the background. It is essential to invest in the three key pillars for the sustainable development of public services: to value workers, to invest in working conditions and to develop management models in public bodies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u123	Mrs Rita Rato from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, there are no quality public services without valued workers, respected in their rights and in appropriate numbers to ensure the functioning of public services. For this reason, the CFP has always raised three essential issues regarding public employment: increasing wages, because many public administration workers have low wages; hiring the professionals in need, and the CFP has specific proposals to present in this State budget regarding health, security forces and other sectors; and combating precariousness. It is not possible to escape from these three questions: to increase wages, to hire professionals in need, to combat precariousness. So we want to highlight a proposal that we bring here. The Secretary of State said, and well, that a path for the replacement of rights and income has been made. It is true, because many have been stolen rights to employees of the Public Administration. That is why this path for the replacement of rights is very fair, and it took time. The return to normality is part of the principle of such a basic thing as this: the accounting of all the time of service, without blackout, is normal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u125	The proposal we bring here and we want to highlight is exactly that of accounting for all the time of service that workers have performed in their duties, because they have ensured the functioning of the public school, the security forces, justice, health and other sectors. This time of service has to be counted for career progression. And that is not a favour, it is normal to count the time of service, because these workers have been ensuring the operation of public services over several years. The proposal of the CFP is best suited to this because it ensures compliance with what was approved in the State Budget for 2018, refers to the way in which this solution can be implemented and suggests the implementation of a solution that has recently been negotiated in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. We therefore propose that the Government at the negotiating level ensure compliance with what was approved in 2018 and that, in a seven-year period, find a normal solution to what is normal, which is full respect for the accounting of working time and the rights of workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u126	Mrs Margarida Mano of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u127	Mr. President and Mr. Members, we are here today talking about teachers, not because the government proposal has any reference to teachers, not because the parties supporting the government have done so, not even because the unions have demanded it; we are here today talking about teachers, because the PSD has announced and submitted a proposal... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u128	...to force the Government to return to negotiations,... [[PSD applause.]] ... negotiations, these, which the Government unilaterally interrupted. We have put forward this proposal in order to frame a solution that, we believe, in a fair way and in a framework of budgetary sustainability, continues the commitments that the Government has made towards teachers. The behaviour of the Government and the parties that support it has so far been full of contradictions, lack of rigour and political cynicism. The freezing was a decision taken in the time of the government of José Socrates, maintained during the period when the country was under external intervention,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u129	Say again: maintained and approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u130	... proposed by the Prime Minister, who has, however, forgotten and approved by the parties supporting the Government in the first two years of this legislature. Only in 2018 was a negotiating process approved in the Budget to define the final conditions. And what did we see happen in 2018? Exactly the opposite! What we saw in 2018 was that, in the Government, the Minister of Education disappeared from the process and when it appeared, in June, at the first meeting, it was to conclude the negotiations. The Prime Minister opened the work announcement, comparing teachers to kilometres of tar, and the government decides unilaterally, without explanation, to define only two years should be the time counted. On the other hand, the parties that support the government dance a dance of momentary interests, now saying that they support teachers, now approving Budgets with freezings,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u131	You're guessing rain!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u132	...in a pact of silence on the backs of the teachers with whom they played during the entire legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u133	You've already noticed she's gonna be caught! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u134	The PSD position is known: we were, from the very first moment, in favour of thawing, denouncing the government's initial option of career discrimination in public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u135	That's what we're going to see in the afternoon in the vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u136	It is therefore a question of justice, but it is also a question of vision. It is that education is, par excellence, where you see the ambition of a government for the future of a country and this is a Budget that announces, in words, a great ambition in education, but what numbers reveal is that spending, as a percentage of GDP, in education will be lower in 2019 than it was in 2015! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u137	in a country with an alarming aging of its teachers and little attractiveness of the profession with younger ones, devaluation and — worse! — to disregard this profession is, by definition, to devalue the education of our children. We are well aware of the importance of sustainability and lack of resources and seek to combine them with principles of social justice, merit and responsibility. We know that it is not for Parliament to replace the government by defining deadlines or modes, which can only be defined in consultation on the basis of detailed information. We will therefore vote against the proposals for final formulae. Mr. Prime Minister asked, at the end of the week, what was the point of adopting a standard exactly the same as it was adopted in 2018. Only the Prime Minister and the government are distracted and they have not noticed: teachers say it makes all the sense, the unions say it makes all the sense, the parties who are in Parliament say it makes sense. And you know why? Because this norm has not been applied, or because it has been misapplied! We see negotiation as an opportunity to define a model of commitment that takes into account reformist aspects, such as access, evaluation and career progression. This is the responsibility of the Government and the Government has to negotiate with the social partners in a serious and transparent way to propose a just, equitable and sustainable solution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u138	I give the floor to Mr Nuno Magalhães for the CDS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, with regard to the special careers of the Public Administration, the CDS does something very simple that should be even unnecessary: it obliges the Government to govern. To that end, the Government must do something very simple, which is to dialogue with the social partners in particular. We therefore put forward a proposal which, as a whole, seems to us the fairest, the most responsible and the most enforceable. Just because it covers all special careers—teachers, security forces and magistrates; responsible, because it requires transparent accounts on the part of the government; feasible, because it foresees before promising and does not do as the government, which promises, does not foresee and then does not comply. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u140	It is therefore the same standard as that adopted in this Parliament on the State Budget for 2018. We therefore make an appeal and a challenge: to the Government that governs and to the House that legislates and, above all, to the majority that supports this government that is consistent. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u141	Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block will vote in favour of all proposals from any party that recognizes the time of service that is due to the special careers of the public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u143	Transparency is this!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u144	In fact, that was the commitment we made and that we are going to fulfill.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u145	PSD isn't like that anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u146	Attention, however, to the PSD proposal, which only repeats last year's proposal, the same one that left the teachers waiting, the same one that pushed the unions into a monologue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u147	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u148	What the Left Block proposes here is trade union negotiation, with a safeguard clause: if the Government will refuse to recognise and phase out the service time of special careers, they will be recovered by 20 % a year. That is the safeguard clause we propose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u150	We also propose that this time of service may be converted into time for retirement. What we want to know and ask the PSD is whether it will follow this proposal of the Left Block or whether the proposal here today will not be a provocation, because — attention! — teachers have expectations that have been created by the PSD here and they will whether or not they will take advantage of the vote that the PSD makes this afternoon. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u151	Mr Porfirio Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing Mrs Margarida Mano is right: the PSD position is known! It was you who took tens of thousands of professionals from public school;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... it was you who chose the public school to sacrifice and therefore cut up over EUR 1000 million of what was planned in the Memorandum of Understanding at school; it was you who put money in private school to take students out of public school;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...the teachers and the other professionals of education were the ones who had not thought or planned, nor wanted to defuse careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u154	The PSD position and, in fact, the CDS position is also known! Our position is another, as has already been reaffirmed here: to value the Public Administration, to value careers, to value professionals. In the specific case of public school, value teachers and other professionals. So, in addition to fulfilling what we promise,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... defrosting and restarting career progression, we also commit ourselves to the unions to develop a negotiating process to mitigate the effect of freezing and also commit ourselves, within Budget, to finding a solution that takes into account the resources available and the sustainability of the solution. And let's do it! We also encouraged the Government to go as far as possible, but always saying that it was the negotiating way that had to be followed to find solutions. Those who, in view of the position of the government, who have taken a step forward and made proposals not to treat teachers less well than others, those who have repeatedly encouraged the trade union intransigence are responsible for not having gone further, because they have not been able to explore all the possibilities to do what, here, in the majority and in the government, we want to do, which is to continue to value the professionals of the Public Administration, the professionals of education, the teachers and other workers. One thing is right: we don't have a time machine to return to the past as if we could restore history. [[PSD member Protests António Topa.]] What we have is political will and determination to keep going. And continuing forward is knowing that the road is still narrow; continuing forward is knowing that we cannot take false steps; continuing forward is knowing that we have to be determined, responsible and do only what is sustainable at every moment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u155	That's what we're doing, that's what we're gonna do and we're gonna count on all those who want to continue, in the future, to work for the appreciation of the professionals of the Public Administration and continue to work for the professionals of the public school. For this, sustainability, sustainability, sustainability. We shall not lose, with no irresponsibility, not a degree, not a degree of the margin of manoeuvre which has cost so much to conquer. That is our determination! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u156	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true, Mrs Margarida Mano, that, from the very first moment, the PSD is in favour of counting all the time of service. I would like to remind the honourable Member that the PSD has not voted in favour of the rule of the State budget for 2018 on this matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u158	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u159	... not so-little voted in favour of the draft resolution presented here by the Greens and which gave rise to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2018, which determines the counting of all the time of service. Therefore, the PSD has changed its position, but now we're going to have to realize if it changed its position of truth or strategically. If it is strategically, Madam Member, the PSD will have a vote on the other proposals on the counting of the time of service presented by the other parties. If the PSD is speaking the truth, it will vote in favour of the other proposals which are being tabled here. Let us see, in fact, how consistent the PSD is with this matter or whether you are just doing a show-off, which, moreover, is nothing that surprises us. Let's see this afternoon, the answer will be given. With regard to the PS, I remember yesterday, if I am not mistaken, Mr Carlos César says that the PS's commitment is to citizens rather than to be a government spokesman. Indeed, Mr Carlos César, it is necessary to know whether the PS maintains its consistency with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2018 on the counting of all the time of service, which the PS voted in favour. This is, in fact, the commitment the PS has to citizens who are subject to this issue, particularly teachers, but also other professionals who depend, for the sake of their career, on the counting of all time of service. Furthermore, the Greens continue to say that it is not possible to delete service time effectively provided, either for what effect it is, in particular, for career progression. Therefore, if a model of recovery of all time of service is proposed in a phased way, I believe that this already responds to the concerns of the government. And, speaking in government, I mean that this doesn't get anything, strictly nothing, to move forward and continue with this fear of not wanting to count all the time of service. The government doesn't win anything, why? Because teachers and other professionals who are in exactly the same situation will also not gain anything from this. Therefore, the government is either working to improve people's living conditions and what is right or, then, is not going far. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u160	Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Education, Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by reminding you that, even before the article of the previous budget law was adopted in this House, the Government had already negotiated a commitment with the unions in which it was committed to negotiating this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the government did not need a rule in the budget law to commit itself to negotiating. It was committed on November 18 to negotiate to mitigate the time of frozen service and to negotiate with the unions the time, mode and timetable of this career recomposition. And do it! Do it for six months, do it at delayed monthly meetings, worked and worked for all sides. At the end of these, he made an approach in which he proposed to the unions the recovery of almost three years of service time and did not, on the part of the unions, agree to it. Despite having no agreement on this, the government has advanced with the approval of a decree of law that corporates this same recovery of three years. It is therefore false that the Government unilaterally interrupted the negotiations. Don't! They went all the way, but they ended up with no agreement, as often happens. However, despite the lack of agreement, the Government has nevertheless decided to pass a decree which recovers these three years of service. So what we are now proposing is that what the Government has done for six months and in good faith is done now. It is nothing that the Government needs the Assembly to determine. I repeat: we negotiated, it was a long, time-consuming, difficult process in which — and despite the lack of agreement — the government decided to recover three years of service from teachers. I remember, in fact, that the successive rules introduced into the State budget that frozen careers in terms of what they did and were those rules, and not who took them off, which determined that in special careers time did not count.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u163	It is necessary to assume those who have adopted the rules of freezing and it is necessary not to place the responsibility on which, at last, it has resumed the normality of careers, defusing them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u164	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is of course a relevant matter, whose debate is being held on this first day of discussion of the budget. We have already made clear the perspective of the CFP. In fact, this has been made clear over the course of this time, in particular with the presentation of the proposal that we bring to the discussion. We are convinced that the proposal of the CFP is in fact the one that serves the interests of the workers of the special careers of the Public Administration — teachers, the workers of the security forces and services, justice, health and so many other areas where there are careers with special rules of progression. Our proposal aims at the three objectives which we have made clear from the outset. First, do not set up a negotiation process that is not complete; second, ensure that this negotiating process will only be completed when a solution is defined which considers the full counting of the time of service; third, we do not put to the discussion and vote any proposals that define a final formula for solving this problem. However, we set limits in the event that there is a phase of remunerative valuation, and this phase cannot exceed seven years and should be initiated in 2019. We have not defined final formulas, nor have we defined other conditions that could undermine collective bargaining or even result in damage to workers in special careers, as is the case in other proposals that have been put forward. Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are convinced that all banks can vote in favour of the CFP proposal, because it does not define final formulas, Mrs Margarida Mano, defines rather frameworks for solving the problem. Concern about the sustainability of budgetary resources is resolved in paragraph 1, with the recovery of the article already contained in the 2018 Budget, so this too cannot be a pretext for the proposal of the CFP not to be approved. We are truly convinced that our proposal, being approved, will provide the necessary framework for a solution that truly corresponds to the rights and interests of the workers of special careers—teachers and all the other workers involved in this issue. on our part, we will not let the struggle of any of these workers fall. We want to know whether the speech they make out there will or will not correspond to the vote in favour of the CFP proposal. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u166	Mr Joana Mortágua, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u167	Mr President, I would like to insist in this House on this very important debate. There are more than half a million civil servants and most of these employees did not have equal access to recovery of service time, nor did they have the right to progress in their careers; most of these employees did not have equal access to careers. So we insist on the PSD to answer us here if what they present to the country is a provocation to teachers and a provocation to the security forces or if it is to take seriously. in this case, they may vote in favour of the Left Block proposal, in particular in the safeguard clause, which does not determine how the Government should negotiate, nor what agreement should be reached, but where only it is said that, if the agreement is not reached, there is a recovery of 20 % per year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u168	We moved on to Article 20. o — Incentives to efficiency and innovation in public management. Mrs Carla Barros of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, I would like to tell you that there is no memory in the history of the country of a government that has so much promised public servants and so little has done for them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u170	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u171	There is no memory in this country, Mrs. Secretary of State, of a government that has done so little and has done so badly to public services in this country. The Secretary of State, with regard to the hiring of more workers, would like to ask you now whether it is a lie or truth or whether it is true or a lie which he promised to the Portuguese that by the end of 2018 thousands and thousands of precarious workers would be integrated into the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u172	For you, the state was supposed to privatize everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u173	Is it true or is it a lie, Mrs Secretary of State, that, with the proposal to add the Socialist Party, in this State budget, you are recognizing the enormous failure around the methodology of the integration of precarious workers into the State? Tell me, Madam Secretary of State, will or will not be fulfilled the entry into the State in 2019 of more 1000 workers, who were assumed by this Budget? Is it true or is it a lie, Madam Secretary of State, that you, together with the Government, are not being serious neither with the employees of the Public Administration nor with the Portuguese in general? [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u174	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an indication that we are now going to discuss Article 26. o — Recruitment of workers and supply of permanent needs in public services, and proposals 2 - C, Greens, 12 - C, Left Block, 147 - C, NAP, 180 - C, NAP, and 500 - C, Left Block. To that end, I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, during this legislature, several have been alerts to the need for more workers and working conditions and to the guarantee of the rights of Portuguese citizens abroad. In São Paulo, the consul suspended visa and nationality applications due to lack of workers. The suspension has risen, but the number of workers is the same. In London, complaints about services have been recurrent and workers have no hands to measure. Citizens are left unanswered in time and time. The Government itself recognises, on the map of the Budget, that, apart from the integration of precariouss, there was no increase of consular workers. The lack of a convenient survey of the needs of consular services has also been the reason for the absence of a pragmatic view of the Ministry's external services network, as it has been exposed by the audits of the General Inspectorate Diplomatica and Consular. We therefore propose strengthening the consulates of São Paulo and London and the already late and obviously necessary identification of needs in all other services of the external network. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u176	Mrs. Wanda Guimarães of the PS, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the fight against precariousness has been one of the priorities of this government. The Programme for the Regularization of the Precarious Links of Public Administration ( PREVPAP ) is, in fact, the consecration of what is fundamental to the Socialist Party and its vision of an inclusive society and the promotion of decent work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u179	This was only possible — it must be strengthened — because the left parliament supported, made proposals and voted in favour, contrary to the right which it not only rejected, as it did not present a single proposal,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... which reveals, in fact, the deep disinterest of this right by public officials, who now come here in a sort of late rehabilitation attempt, saying that you are very concerned. But this proposal was missing, because although the General Law on Public Works, in its article 34. the, ensures that literary qualifications are not only necessary, they can now be replaced by professional experience, because there were cases in which this situation was not happening as we would like. This is the necessary clarification for some workers not to be prevented from accessing PREVPAP and for more and more workers whose professional achievement and stability this government and this bench are defending. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u180	You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Greens believe that combating the precariousness and recruitment of new public administration professionals is crucial for effective public services. in this sense, I would like to highlight here a proposal presented by the Greens for the hiring of more than 25 nature watchers for the year 2019. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the State Budget, we have come to make proposals for strengthening these human resources in terms of nature surveillance. We will thus arrive at the end of the legislature with more than 100 new human resources and new professionals for the surveillance of our protected areas, but not only, given that the area of activity, let us say, these professionals are not confined only to protected areas. There are enough protected areas that have only one nature watcher, and this surveillance is not effectively guaranteed. in this sense, we reinforce this idea: human resources are crucial to the proper functioning of services and to the quality of services that are provided. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u182	We turn to Article 30. o — Provision of judicial service by retired judges, of proposals 466 - C, of the PCP, 720 - C, of the PSD, 73 - C, of the BE, 153 - C, of the PAN, and of the PAN, as well as of the PAN, and also, if I understand the script, of Article 30. o -A. Mrs Ana Mesquita from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the valorisation of public school must necessarily go through respect for the rights of its workers and the improvement of their working conditions. The CFP presents a number of proposals in this regard. One of them resolves the injustice that thousands of teachers are suffering because they do not have their working time properly counted for purposes of access to social benefits because they are being wrongly regarded as part-time employees rather than teachers with incomplete hours. Another proposal goes through the review of the ratio of educational and administrative action assistants, as thousands of these workers are still needed in full-time and effectively linked in public school, especially due to the inadequacy of the existing ratio to the concrete reality of schools. We stress again the importance of the CFP proposal for the full counting of service time. Justice is this: the proposal that best serves the rights of workers in the special careers of the Public Administration, including teachers and educators, respecting the role of trade unions and collective bargaining and pointing to a concrete outcome, by observing a solution already negotiated in Madeira for a problem that the government has created with its intransigence. More, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have publicly stated that they are defending teachers' demands, cannot now set out pretexts and subterfuges of the last hour to drop the teacher's struggle and avoid voting favourably on the proposal of the CFP, which is the only one that effectively solves the problem. As for us, we will not give up and continue to fight for 9 years, 4 months and 2 days! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u184	You now have the floor Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, John Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u185	Mr President, we wanted to mention here that in relation to public services, in this legislature, the Government began a process of recovery of the cut made by the previous Government. During the previous government, the number of workers in the Public Administration was cut by 70 000. in this government, with a particular incidence in the National Health Service, in education and science, there was a remarkable recovery of the number of workers, with more 8600 workers of the National Health Service, plus 2500 doctors, plus 4000 nurses, increasing the number of workers in the National Health Service to 8600. In schools, the number of workers increased by 5000, plus 3000 operational assistants on the basis of an agreement and a standard approved in Parliament with the left-wing majority, which strengthened, and much more, the number of operational assistants in schools. At universities we increased the number of researchers and teachers in 2000, between 2015 and 2018. We started an investment recovery process in public services and this is about hiring workers to the most critical areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u186	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 31. o — Recruitment of workers in public higher education institutions, adding the following proposals: 671 - C, of the NAP; 13 - C, of the EAP; 14 - C of the CFP; 34 - C, of the CFP; 58 - C, of the EPO; 208 - C, of the CFP; 531 - C, of the CSD-PP; 636 - C, of the NAP; and 373 - C, of the CFP. Mrs. Angela Moreira from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP presents proposals for science strengthening: the progressive integration of scientific research scholarships into the career of scientific research and the repeal of the Statute of the Research Fellowship ; the updating of the value of scientific research scholarships; the replacement of grants to scholarships for participation in missions and congresses ; a plan to update, modernize and strengthen the means of State laboratories ; a programme to dynamize the National Scientific and Technological System ( SCTN ). The use of research scholarships to carry out scientific work in the SCTN using precarious links translates into the devaluation of the researcher's work. The CFP proposes the progressive integration of all scholarships into the scientific research career and, until the integration of all scholarships is a reality, an annual update from 2019 onwards of the research scholarships. We propose the replacement of previously existing grants, such as that for participation in congresses and for those to whom the delivery of theses is not yet authorized in digital format, the CFP understands that the State Laboratories are fundamental instruments for national sovereignty in all areas where they provide services and develop scientific activities. For a long time, the CFP was the only one to submit proposals to see all the conditions for its operation, through modernisation and strengthening of means. This is another proposal that reinforces this need. The existence of a coherent and upward national scientific and technological system is central to the articulation between the productive sector and social, human and territorial development. in this sense, the PCP proposes the creation of a dynamization program of the national scientific and technological system, contemplating directed measures both for the public sector and for the private sector. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u188	We shall enter into Article 34. o — Replacement of subcontracting of companies by hiring health professionals, incorporating the following proposals: 25 - C, from BE; 33 - C, from BE; and 403 - C, also from BE. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, building a National Health Service with professionals who are at the place where they are needed is the commitment that the Left Block brings to the State Budget for 2019. Therefore, we present several proposals for addendum to the Budget: strengthening nearly 200 professionals in INEM ( Instituto Nacional de Emergence Médica de Portugal ) to ensure the operationality of existing means and the opening of new means; hiring psychologists in health centres, because mental health must be a bet of the National Health Service; hiring nutritionists in health centres, because prevention and disease control are also carried out by this way, especially in a country where diabetes is an epidemic; hiring environmental health technicians; opening more vacancies in areas lacking to fix doctors in the regions of the country; increasing vacancies for specialized medical training, through an extraordinary competition. We cannot fail to say that more doctors need to be trained in Portugal, so that the National Health Service is also a better service for all users. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the commitment of the Left Block is that of building a National Health Service of quality. It remains to be known, and we will soon know in the votes of these left bloc proposals whether the commitment of the other parties is the same. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u190	Mr Luís Vales, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Article 34. the proposal for the State Budget Act for 2019 is well the mark of the current left-wing political majority. Under the pompous title « Replacement of subcontracting companies by hiring health professionals », this article is limited to reproducing an article identical to that of the State Budget for this year and should achieve a result identical to this year, that is strictly zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u192	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u193	It is that in the last three years the Government of the Socialist Party, with the support of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, has increased the use of medical services in the National Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, after the former PSD Government had reduced these services by EUR 130 million in 2010 to around EUR 80 million in 2015, the current government has again increased costs with the so-called « medical-jobs » to more than EUR 100 million in 2016, as well as in 2017. The problem is that this article does not assume any commitment, any effective timing, any concrete quantification of reductions in medical services in the SNS. In addition, in 2017, the government even promised to make them marginal. The word given was not an honest word!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u195	What the PSD does is to appeal to the responsibility of the Government, i.e. to quantify and schedule the reduction in the use of these benefits, in agreement with the commitments that the Government made to itself in 2017 in the context of the budget implementation of that year. We therefore propose a reduction of 35% of the quarterly charges with these contracts compared to the same period, confident that only in this way will greater quality be achieved in medical work and a lower cost for taxpayers, with perverse costs and that there is an urgent need to disincent in the public health sector. Therefore, we also propose the end of the captives applied to the Health Regulatory Entity ( ERS ), since it is important not to withdraw the necessary means for monitoring the quality of health services that the left ones have allowed to deteriorate in recent years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u196	We turn to Chapter IV on Regional Finance, particularly Article 54. o — Economic revitalization and aid to the Third Island. Mrs. Lara Martinho, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS Parliamentary Group has presented two relevant proposals in relation to key areas for the Azores. One is about the economic revitalization of the Third Island, which is already a reality thanks to this government as well. It is a reality with Ryanair's operation, with the certification of Lajes airport, with the transfer of land to the construction of the Lajes cargo terminal, with the transfer to the North American neighbourhood region, which allowed the creation of Third Tech Island, or with the development of projects such as the Centre for Atlantic Defence ( CeDa ). It is a reality, because there is a new accountability and action by the United States of America in the face of decontamination and a responsibility for action also by the Government of the Republic, so for the first time in 2018, there is compensation to the City Hall of Victoria Beach, of the costs with water analysis as well as support for the new water supply network. These measures are now being strengthened in this State budget for 2019. Despite the much that has been achieved, there is still a way to go, because the reality is that we started from scratch, nothing has been done by the former PSD Government and CDS. Nothing! Therefore, we presented an initiative to support the legalization of the American neighborhood of Santa Rita, built in the 1950s by the United States Air Force, with the permission of the Portuguese Ministry of Defence, not only financial support but also through the creation of conditions so that the Authority can acquire the rustic buildings, with a view to the legalization of this neighborhood. The importance of this initiative, in particular by responding to nearly 100 families living there, we hope to have the support of all parties for their approval. We have also put forward another proposal on the overcosts of island universities. The University of the Azores, as well as the University of Madeira, play an irreplaceable role in the development of our regions, but the funds made available to these universities have not envisaged any increase that will allow the overcosts to be faced by all recognized. This proposal aims to address this failure, ensuring that the State promotes the necessary studies and communicates to the Assembly of the Republic in order to increase the financing of island universities, in order to compensate for the overcosts of insularity and outermost regions. We therefore hope that this proposal will also be accompanied by all parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u198	Mrs Berta Cabral, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the Azores, this budget is a real disappointment. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u200	It is a new set of proposals, which have moved from year to year without realisation, a series of proclaiming provisions for the electorate to see, which, in practice, are full of nothing. in this context, the PSD members elected by the Azores, a group in which I am included, presented a dozen proposals for amendment and addition to this Budget, duly quantified and specified, regarding the investments of state services in the region. We have also put forward proposals on the urgency of fully fulfilling the plan for the economic revitalization of the Third Island in this Parliament. We also put forward proposals to stop the increase in fuels in the Azores; proposals on the increase in support for students at the University of Azores and also on the promotion of the immediate regularization of debts to the pharmaceuticals of the health subsystems by the National Health Service. These are just a few examples of the 10 proposals we have put forward, because we have been elected and we are in this House to first defend the Azores and the Azores, and not to be a government resonance box. Defending the Azores and the Azores is affirming our autonomy, defending subsidiarity, national cohesion and territorial continuity. At the end of the day, we'll see who's with the Azores and who's against the Azores. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u201	We turn to Article 59. or — Horta Airport. Mr. João Castro, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the proposed State Budget for 2019, the Government of the Republic formalizes for the first time the intention to expand the Horta airport track, in respect of the recommendations of the International Civil Aviation Organization. thus, it meets the hopes of the local populations, the positions taken by the government bodies of the Autonomous Region of Azores, as well as the recommendations presented by the different banks present here and approved unanimously. The PSD and the CDS, and only these, present amendments. It's appropriate to say, welcome! However, they have forgotten that they have left the TAP, even publicly, to abandon the Horta route, which has omitted this need from the book of charges for the privatization of ANA, which they have rejected this opportunity by the voice of the then Prime Minister, in the Hall Nobre of the City Hall of Horta. They now put forward proposals for amendments behind the damage, as if they had made some contribution so that this objective could be achieved, confirming what must be done, what they should have done and, in fact, failed to do. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u203	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the word game has limits, I'd say it's got a short leg. This government in good time corrects the way, assuming itself as part of the solution. We welcome the express proposal that, for the first time, I repeat, gives the objective of this relevance, continuing territorial continuity and mobility throughout the national territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u204	The assessment of Article 60 is followed. o — Madeira Central Hospital. Mr Ernesto Ferraz of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u205	Mr President, members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the debt accumulated by the Regional PSD Government in the Autonomous Region of Madeira for many years resulted in a burden on the shoulders of the Madeirans for the coming decades. At present, it is incomprehensible that the Government of the Republic does not lower the high interest rates on the loan granted to the autonomous region or does not eliminate the spread of 0, 15 percentage points imposing on it. For the Left Block this requirement is a guarantee that the State is supportive of the Madeirans and that it does not overburden them with the errors and deviations of the Regional Government and that the Government of the Republic does not continue to profit from interest over one of its regions. This solidarity should also be demonstrated by the Government in the state participation in the construction and equipment of the future central hospital of Madeira. Mr Prime Minister committed himself to 50 % of the funds during this year, during a visit to the region, because Madeira does not only need the new hospital, Madeira needs a well-equipped public hospital, with various valences that respond to the needs of 260 000 residents of an island and outermost region and without any alternative for health care. A project of common interest requires the Government's solidarity in 50 % of the funds, according to the commitment made, without retreats, or malabarisms towards a region of the country where they live in Portuguese like all others and requires the cooperation of the two governments to carry on this project necessary for the coming decades. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u206	Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this government's addrabices around the new Madeira hospital and the interest rate of the loan to the region continues. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Instead of correcting funding from 13 % to 50 % of Madeira's hospital and reviewing the interest rate, allowing real and effective savings for Madeiran families and companies, it is frightening that the government and PS keep everything in it and even worsen the situation by demanding the early payment of the debt to the region. More: the government has given us a new surprise when it issued an alleged clarification on the VAT of the hospital last Thursday which, instead of clarifying, confuses more and is worth very little because it is not a budgetary rule. The P.S. Madeira once again turned its back on the Madeirans and abandoned them by presenting zero — I repeat, zero — proposals or measures to this Budget to relieve the garrot imposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u208	What about the Madeira Regional Government?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS and the parties that support the government today have a new opportunity to correct this injustice towards the Madeirans. To this end, it is enough to approve the PSD proposals and, in particular, the only proposal clarifying 50 % for Madeira hospital, the overall amount of funding due and VAT. It's the PSD proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u210	Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin precisely on this issue of Madeira hospital. Today, we're just talking about the question of Madeira hospital because the regional government, the PSD,... [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] ... launched the idea of Madeira Hospital in the year 2000. Now, between 2000 and 2015, the Regional Government of the PSD had access to EUR 27 billion in taxes, state transfers, transfers from the European Union and in debt, Mrs Sara Madruga of the Costa, a lot of debt. Now, EUR 27 billion gives to build 90 hospitals of the same size as the regional government wants to do in Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u213	You know how many they've done all this time? None!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u214	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u215	No way! They didn't even restructure the hospital! [[P.S.'s applause.]] So today, this theme of Madeira's hospital is only about because the PSD has no notion of priorities, it has no notion of what is effectively important for Madeirans and did what it shouldn't do, it didn't do what it should! On this issue, with regard to the hospital, I want to conclude by saying the following: the PS Parliamentary Group will clarify very concretely what we have been saying since 2017. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] The Government will co-finance 50% of the hospital as planned in the 2017 Budget, in the 2018 Budget and as it now has a material expression in the 2019 Budget. And there's only material expression in the 2019 Budget because Mr. PSD and the Regional Government in particular failed to present the proposal for a project of common interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u216	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u217	They failed in 2017, failed in 2018! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And only now is it possible to have that material expression! Finally, on the question of interest, Mr Ernesto Ferraz of the Left Block, it is a lie that there is no government effort to reduce interest. This effort is planned in the Budget. I'll make a reminder again and talk a little bit of history. We all need to remember why Madeira is paying such a expensive loan with so much impact on Madeiran society. It is doing so because the PSD government has destroyed regional finances.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u219	Because the regional government of the PSD has made an absolutely unpaid debt and at a certain point it had to deal with the national government—see, in the interest of the truth, it is necessary to repeat, a PSD government. Therefore, who established this interest and debt contract business were two PSD governments: the Regional Government and the National Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the PS Government is doing today is correcting what you have never been able to correct and that have made the Madeirans victims. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u220	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor at this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have had the most predictable moment of this Budget: that, by 24. Mr. Carlos Pereira has promised Madeira's hospital! Only Mr. Carlos Pereira is he still believes in Mr. Carlos Pereira! Therefore, Mr President, I would like to make the following clear: 50 % of what?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u222	Read the Budget! It's written!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u223	Is it 50% of the total cost of the hospital or a value that the Prime Minister imposes, a priori, what is 96 million euros? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] Once again, we will pass to the fourth stone released from Madeira hospital without there being a second! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u224	On this point too, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u225	Mr President, I would like to respond to the doubts raised by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the central hospital in Madeira, I have already made it very clear, in the last intervention I did here, that what the government is going to do is meet the commitment it has made and which is written in the Council of Ministers resolution. The Government will finance 50% of the expenditure with the new Madeira hospital. It will not finance 50 % of the expenditure with the new Madeira hospital plus 50 % of what is returned buildings. This is because when the new Madeira hospital exists, the two buildings where hospitals currently work will be returned. [[Protests by PS Member Paulo Neves.]] These buildings can then be used by the Regional Government of Madeira, within its regional autonomy, to do what you understand for Madeira and Madeira. The proposal we put forward is a fair proposal, which establishes solidarity between the Republic and the Autonomous Region of Madeira, so the project was recognised as a project of common interest and shares efforts. I am sure that the Portuguese, all Portuguese, regardless of whether they live in Madeira, the Azores or the continent, understand that this is a fair proposal that fulfills what has been promised. Finally, and with regard to VAT, so that it is clear, I no longer understand, then, what is the matter? A number of questions were raised about whether VAT was included. A clarification has been made which makes it clear that VAT is included. Well, if you haven't understood yet, then I don't know what else you can do to make it clear that VAT is included! VAT is included! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to PAEF ( Economic and Financial Assistance Programme ) / Madeira, already the last time I came here I had the opportunity to explain to Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa what is in the Budget. As for the accusation that nothing is being done, I apologize, but, as I said at the time, it is not true, it is a lie. And as for saying that there is a shortening of the maturity of the loan, I cannot even understand where the honourable Member has been looking for this idea, because it does not exist in the Budget or anywhere! What is in the Budget is a reduction of around 10% of what is interest expenditure. Translates what is the alignment between the cost of PAEF / Madeira and the cost of financing of the Republic. Anything that goes beyond this is an unjustified transfer from the State budget to the regional budget. It doesn't make sense that there's a subsidy for something that doesn't have a counterpart, something that doesn't set anything up that's fair. It is a pure and hard transfer from the State budget to Madeira, and that is something we do not agree with, it is something that cannot be done and that does not have a rational justification. What is presented is fair and contributes and shows solidarity among all Portuguese, regardless of where they live. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u226	Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u227	Mr President, you may continue to say what you want, but, Secretary of State, 96, 5 million are not the 50% that have been promised to the new hospital in Madeira! With regard to the interest rate, the Government has not yet been able to explain why it is asking for the early payment of the debt to the region, which is totally unacceptable. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u228	I believe that we can move on to a subsequent article, in this case Article 63. o. Mr. Paulo Neves, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin with an authentic appeal to all parties, but in particular to the Socialist Party, to accompany the Maderians and the Port-Saints through the PSD proposals in defending the constitutional principle of territorial continuity. Let us join and respect our colleagues in the Legislative Assembly of Madeira, which, unanimously, I repeat, unanimously! — recently approved the new system of support for the mobility of Madeirans. It is in this sense that the PSD Parliamentary Group presents, in this State budget, a proposal that obliges the Government of the Republic to improve the current system, making it less bureaucratic in order to prevent the Portuguese of the islands from making money available to the State in the mobility allowance. To vote next to us, next to the PSD, is to vote next to all the Portuguese of Madeira. in this issue of mobility, we add air mobility to maritime mobility, also very important for the islands. We propose that the Government of the Republic assume its responsibilities by supporting the annual maritime link throughout the year between Madeira and Lisbon. In short, the PSD proposes that the State, as it reads, the Government of the Republic, should take on its responsibilities in air and maritime mobility between the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the continent. I'm finishing up with a suggestion to the gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party elected by Madeira, who did not present any suggestions themselves in this Budget, which is original and shameful: they join the PSD proposals, especially those made by the members of the Democratic Social Party elected by the people of Madeira. If you do not have any proposals, join us, which is what the Madeirans expect! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u230	Mr Under-Secretary of State and Finance has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u231	Mr President, I already realized that Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa is not about to listen to me, but I think Mr Paulo Neves will be about to hear me and hear what I have to say about the social mobility allowance. Social mobility allowance meets a constitutional principle of territorial continuity that is essential. But we must look at this subsidy in an integrated way and at all aspects, particularly the configuration that it currently has, which does not induce the correct incentives and which has led to an explosion of expenditure, which has shifted from about EUR 20 million to something that can reach around EUR 80 million this year. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] And that is the fault of those who presented — and it was the PSD/CDS government — a regime in which the traveller pays a fixed party and the State pays whatever it is, contrary to what was the previous regime. Therefore, we are available to discuss a social mobility allowance, a subsidy that is less bureaucratic, fairer, that has the right incentives and that allows, on the one hand, more mobility and not only expenditure, which has been found, and, on the other hand, that has the incentives to seek the most efficient, cheaper solutions between the State and those who are beneficiaries of that allowance, and that all have greater mobility without this increasing the expenditure on levels that are not sustainable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u232	We are now in accordance with Article 69. o. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the first opportunity, the government fails twice in compliance with the new Local Finance Act. It fails to subtract close to EUR 20 million from local authorities and inter-municipal entities in terms of financial transfers and failure to provide the Decentralisation Financing Fund ( FFF ) with any funds to finance the new powers to be transferred. The government thus fails with the process of decentralisation, the cornerstone of the reform of the state, but it wants to continue to fail the authorships, proposing that the funds to be allocated to the Decentralisation Fund remain well noticed in the judgment of a mere statement by the Minister of Finance. This is absolutely unacceptable, so we propose that the amounts of the Decentralisation Fund be submitted by the Government to Parliament in the form of a bill. This does not delay the process, the government is late in three years around this file, which makes it, yes, Mr Secretary of State, in a more transparent process. That's what determines the Local Finance Act, that's what Portuguese autoarchs expect. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u234	In the context of this article, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget John Leon has the floor. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u235	Mr President, I would just like to point out that the increase in the transfer of funds to the authorities in the State budget for next year, of more than 6 %, is the largest increase of the century and complies with the Local Finance Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u236	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is waiting for further inscriptions on this article. [[Pause.]] With no further inscriptions, we can turn to Chapter VI on social security. Article 90. it has aggregated the following amendments: 69 - C, submitted by the Left Block ; 570 - C, presented by the CDS-PP ; 576 - C, presented by the PSD ; and 644 - C, presented by the PAN. In order to speak on these proposals which I have just mentioned, several Members are included. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Dignity for those who work, justice for those who work; improving the conditions of those who work and ensuring that everyone has conditions after they stop working. That is what defines one of the foundations of our government action, that is what defines a great pillar of social justice, and that is our orientation in this section, in this article, in the system of flexible access to pensions. Justice, because without it there is no equality. Justice, because it is with her that we keep our word. Justice, because it is with it that we credible our action. Justice, because it is with the gradual replacement of rights and incomes that we meet our budgetary goals, contrary to the right, which did not comply with justice, did not meet the pensioners and did not meet their budgetary goals either. [[PSD protests.]] Where you cut us rest; where you froze us we increased; where you wanted to privatize, ceiling, we say: "Never! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Never, because freedom is guaranteed with public and universal social security, the guarantee that no pensioner is left behind as soon as he needs access to his reform. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u238	That is why the Socialist Party has presented not only its measures within the State budget to eliminate the sustainability factor, to ensure the improvement of the conditions of access to the pension system and specific workers—as is the case with the workers of the prairies, which we will still have time to discuss in other articles—but also to ensure that no pensioner is harmed by some of the proposals that can be read in that sense. in this sense, the government presented a reform anticipation regime, eliminating the sustainability factor for pensioners aged 60 years and 40 years of contributing career. This is an extraordinary commitment to our pensioners, and it is therefore essential to safeguard that, with this commitment, we do not call into question the rights of pensioners who do not meet the conditions of this new regime proposed by the Government and ensure that these continue to apply the flexibility regime currently in force. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u239	Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes from the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u240	Mr President, intergenerational equity, particularly with regard to the sustainability of social security, does not give immediate votes or great titles in newspapers. But the PSD has demanded -it will require-CL -and will always insist on its discussion. We insist, because defending the public social security system depends on the trust contract that is established between generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u242	This was a constantly broken trust whenever you gave it a shot or a vote. They are revoking the problem, reducing the benefits in future pensions, in future generations that they contribute today. [[BE's protests.]] These generations, as they do not feel immediately, do not weigh the cost of votes! To further conceal the effect and this effective disregard for intergenerational equity, they associated the sustainability of social security with the shameful narrative of the war between generations, implying that some Portuguese, some grandson or some grandfather would only be concerned with their pension and not with the pension of the other. That's what they said and it was a shame! [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] But in the PSD we are not conditioned by instrumental ideological ghosts. In the PSD, the truth comes face to face and without false propagandistic velcros. In the past, the majority who now governs refused to discuss sustainability in an open and open manner. They rejected transparency. What we are now proposing is even more clear: we want a chapter for intergenerational equity in the sustainability report accompanying the State budget. We want every Portuguese to be able to draw your conclusion, then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because we do not accept anyone in Portugal saying: « I am already waiting for no money to pay for my reform! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We have been elected to take up the problems and to solve them, regardless of the immediate votes. If this chapter existed today, I would say, for example, and at best, that someone aged 34 would no longer be reformed, nor in the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security. And if this is the case in this optimistic time, what will happen when you arrive at the pre-announced « Mortagua crisis »? [[Protests from the member of BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you vote against this proposal, against this accountability and clarification, it is because you lack the courage to take on the truth or because it matters only what is worth immediate votes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u243	Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, for the third consecutive year, the State Budget envisages an extraordinary increase in pensions, inseparable from the intervention and persistence of the CFP which has never been satisfied with the defrosting of pensions and which has always insisted on the need for the replacement of the purchasing power lost by pensioners and pensioners, an increase that for the first time will be fully realized in January 2019, something for which the CFP has fought and will benefit more than a million and a half of pensioners and pensioners. The strengthening and expansion of family allowance, in which the CFP has insisted, is an important step forward for children between 3 and 6 years of age, especially for 4 years. the family allowance step, covering children who so far had no access to it. We also note the positive elements for long careers. By valuing these advances, we understand that it is necessary to go further and, for this, we present proposals that strengthen the social protection of the pensioners, the unemployed, the families and the disabled. We extend the elimination of the sustainability factor to the subscribers of the CGA ( General Pension Fund ), ensuring that all workers benefit from this State budget in terms of long careers. We eliminated penalties for already retired workers, who were forced to anticipate their reform and who suffered brutal cuts in pensions. With this proposal, we end with an injustice that persists for these reformers. We strengthen the social protection of the unemployed, making definitive the extraordinary measure of support for the long-term unemployed, eliminating the sustainability factor for long-term unemployment pensions, and insisting that there is a need for a solution for these workers, pushed by labour reality for early reforms. Defending family allowance as a right of the child, and that the same must be universal, we deliver proposals for this path, but also for ensuring the allocation of prenatal allowance to the families of the 4. the step, accompanying the path of replacement of the family allowance. We ended with the existing limitation on access to the supplement by dependency, restating a right that PSD and CDS withdrew. We insist on the free multi-use attestation and advocate that, together with organizations of people with disabilities, conditions for access to reform for people with disabilities are assessed, but we also reinforce the response of the social benefit for inclusion (PSI), ensuring their access to those who have acquired a disability before 55 years of age, but whose certification has been required later, and we propose that the PSI be allocated to people with a disability of less than 60 % in a particularly disabling situation, as well as those who have acquired a disability after 55 years of age. We also defend that we consider the payment of the PSI at 14 months. These are just proposals that respond to sense needs and problems, correct injustice and restore rights and deepen social protection. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u245	Mr. José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the bill we have negotiated, we have ensured several very important measures for pensioners and for the sustainability of social security, measures in the time frames of irresponsible speech, hatred and lies and intergenerational retaliation that the PSD has done here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u247	What are these measures? It is the annual increase in pensions resulting from the law that we defrosted in 2015 ; the extraordinary increase to guarantee a minimum of 10 € of increase already in January ; the correction of the value of minimum pensions; the maintenance of access to the solidarity complement for elderly pensioners injured in Mota Soares ; access to the rapid wear reform of stone workers, which will include not only the workers of extraction but also the workers of the transformation of stone and lavaries ; finally, more favourable rules for the early reforms of those who began to discount before the age of 20 and is, at the age of 60, 40 years of discounts. What do we want in the specialty? First, ensure that the end of the sustainability factor to this group of pensioners applies not only to social security but also to the General Pension Fund. Secondly, to ensure that those who started working as a child, who today would not have any penalty for the rules we approved, but had the misfortune of reforming with the rules of the PSD and the CDS, can benefit from a reform supplement capable of being a compensation for the cuts they had and for their child labour. Third, end the sustainability factor for the remaining anticipated pensions and special schemes. It is possible, it is fair, and we appeal to it to be approved. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u248	Mrs Susana Lamas of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to begin by saying that the flexible scheme of age access to pensions, which is of the greatest importance, required to be treated clearly and seriously, which has not happened. It was all a joke! The Minister of Labour has announced the elimination of the sustainability factor for pensioners who, at the age of 60, have at least 40 years of contributions. And here began the confusion. The first question is: will the regime emerging in 2019 coexist with the current flexibility regime? The Minister explained, but it has not yet been understood, there is no certainty, only confusion, and the proof of this is the amendment put forward by the Socialist Party. Second joke: dates. In January, workers aged 63 years or older can be accessed and only from October 2019 workers aged 60 years or older. Why this distinction? Why these two moments? Why only in October? Proximity of elections? Very timely, we would say! And since we're talking about bullshit, we would also like to know if the Budget has a solution for months and months of waiting to delay the allocation of pensions by the National Pension Centre. We hope that this issue will be resolved in this budget and will not go on. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u250	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal from the State budget on the measure of early reforms for those who at the age of 60 have 40 years of career does not go through a great illusion, to say even a great lie. The Government, with the support of this majority, has been promising this and that and, after all, what we read in the text of the State Budget is only, and only, the introduction of huge iniquity, leaving out who can have more than 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, and have more years of career, 41, 42, 43, 44 years, and not be covered by this measure. So it's a big lie and CDS doesn't go into lies. The CDS-PP will exercise its sense of responsibility, voting against this proposal, and will not embark on what is the competition of hypocrisy on the part of the extreme-left parties, who, in the same sentence in which they say that they have negotiated this Budget, are neither ashamed or ashamed to present proposals, more this and all and its opposite, but who, you will see, is not in the State Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u252	The extreme right has not yet presented an Alternative State Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u253	The Government replied to this proposal saying that it was not electoralism because it was in the Government Programme. Liar! This measure is not in the Government Programme! But it is in the Government's programme what is the status and measures for informal caregivers. On this issue, and even though it is in the Government Programme, there is nothing relevant in this State budget. And once again, the extreme left, with hypocrisy, shuts up and approves a Budget that does not fight for what you are promising your voters. The CDS-PP will not do so and make a proposal, at least trying to help the government to fulfill what it has promised and to ensure what is most essential, more urgent, more necessary for all those who are in this situation and who have to do with the rest of the informal caregiver. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know how urgent this matter is and therefore we hope that they will approve this proposal from the CDS, which is to establish justice, because that is our role. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u254	Mr. Jorge Falcato Simões, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the reasons for anticipating the retirement age of disabled workers were expressed in a petition which in one month collected more than 4500 signatures and will be delivered to this Parliament tomorrow. I quote what the petitioners say: "We know what it is to have a disability, we know what it is to age with a disability. We know that people who live and age with a long-term disability have a high prevalence of secondary health conditions, such as pain, tiredness or weakness, depression, sleep disorders, memory and attention problems, intestinal and urinary problems, pressure ulcers, overweight and obesity, among others. We know how over- effort we make. We know how this effort affects our aging and how, in most of the deficiencies, there is early aging, even affecting, in many diseases, the average life expectancy. It is justified, as for some professions considered to be of rapid wear, to lower the retirement age, as is already the case, for example, in France or Brazil. Do not keep on seeking. ” Do justice! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u256	Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Cláudia Joaquim.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed incredible that, over the past three years, when we are discussing the fourth State budget, we have heard some references from Members of the PSD Parliamentary Groups and the CDS-PP on equity and sustainability, on trust between generations, on transparency in social security, on a system of flexibility and clarity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u258	They're in your report!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u259	It is totally unbelievable for a number of reasons. First, because it was the PSD/CDS government that did everything to discredit the public social security system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u260	It was the PSD/CDS Government that did everything to reduce resources, to reduce capacity, so that the public social security system would not respond to that response and therefore it would not be necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u262	It was the PSD/CDS government that took a set of measures against pensioners. And did not take them for the imposition of the troika, many were added during the negotiation with the troika! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS protests.]] And I'm going to erase them! I can tell you more: you have worsened the ESC (extraordinary contribution of solidarity) in 2012 ; then you have had the lead of the Court of Auditors in the courts of Christmas and holiday allowances and you have again worsened the ESC in 2013 ; you are not satisfied with this, you have increased the retention rate of IRS ; in 2014 you have been confronted with decisions of the Court of Auditors that involved returning EUR 900 million to wages and pensions - you have re-enlarged the ESC! Do you know what it means to extend ESC? It means that it was EUR 463 million in 2014 in the General Tax Fund, that it was EUR 212 million in social security, and that in 2013 it was EUR 387 million plus EUR 153 million in additional revenue which resulted only from a capped tax that applied to pensioners. These values would be added to the extraordinary transfer of the State budget to the sustainability of the short-term pension scheme, which involved transfers of EUR 1430 million, of EUR 1329 million — that is what we are talking about. Your decisions have sought to discredit the public social security system. Why? Because there was a focus, in the script of the state reform, on the ceiling. This was the goal, it was the goal of the privatization of the public social security system. But it was also what was the new measure of social security sustainability that was contained in the Stability Programme presented by the then Government for 2016 - 2019: such cuts of 600 million euros in pensions! And do you know what the gentlemen are even more aware of?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u263	It's in your report this year!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u264	Madam Member, if you would like to hear me, very well; if not, call the microphone and say what you have to say! You predicted in the Stability Programme that between 2015 and 2019 there would be a decrease in social security revenues by 0.7 percentage points of GDP. I am sorry to report that what we have is a very sustained growth in social security contributions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u265	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u266	What we have is a replacement, an increase in pensions! [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] What we have is an increase in coverage and protection in the solidarity complement for the elderly, in the social income of insertion, the creation of a dedicated performance for people with disabilities, unlike a cut, unlike the introduction of a condition of resources in the complement for dependence. In fact, I think it is interesting that there is also now, by the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups, so much concern with the informal caregiver when they cut the allowance for assistance to the third person and when they applied the condition of appeal in the first-dependence supplement! [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, yes, it is possible to have political measures to move towards sustainability of social security: sustainability of social security in the short term, because we no longer need extraordinary transfers from the State budget, we no longer need extraordinary complements of solidarity; and in the long term, because we have structural measures that make us have the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund to allow pension payments for more than 19 years than you have anticipated! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, you are so concerned about the people who are now 35 years old — we are too — but you have not been at least concerned when this ceiling of the FEFSS (Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security) ended 19 years earlier, so with much worse conditions for the sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u267	And the sustainability of this year?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u268	He's trying to stop the intervention from being heard because it costs him the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u269	There must be consistency, it must indeed not put the generations against each other, and that is why we have - you know what, Member of Parliament? — a system of distribution, which I have many doubts that know what it is! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u270	But what is this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u271	It is possible, in this State budget, to have a set of measures to strengthen the protection of the elderly, which allow an extraordinary update, at the beginning of the year, to restore the one who was a cut, a suspension of the former Government; it is possible to have a supplement for the new minimum pensions, so that they can also benefit from the one who was the extraordinary update of these three years; it is possible to have a regime that protects the very long contribution careers of those people who have begun to work very young.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u272	Those who are older don't count!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u273	And do you know that these people were unable to access early retirement between 2012 and 2015? That's what happened! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also have a new regime of early reforms that will protect people who, at the age of 60, have 40 years of contributing careers, but who also allows to maintain the current regime for people who do not have such long careers. There is no doubt about that: it is possible to do all this, it is possible to improve the lives of pensioners, it is possible that more than 80 % of pensions will have a real update in the years 2018 and 2019 without jeopardising the sustainability of social security and without jeopardizing it in the long term, mainly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u274	Let us turn to Article 94. o — Informal caregivers. Mrs Helga Correia, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u275	Mr President, Article 94. the, without calendaring, is an illusion measure that serves only to silence the inconveniences of the governing arch parties. The informal caregivers deserve more. Without prejudice to the urgent need for the creation of a statute, we present a proposal that seeks to recognize expenditure on contracts to support people in the home, and is now comparable, for the purposes of IRS, to charges with households. It is not enough to put a standard in the Budget and say they recognize your work. It is urgent to act and not to delude! [[PS protests.]] The PSD never deluded; it spoke truth to the Portuguese. It was the PS in the government in 2010 that began the cuts in social support! We saved the country! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u276	Mr. José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block has, at the right time, presented in this Parliament a bill to create the status of informal caregivers, the great demand of informal caregivers. This debate runs in the Commission and we have been waiting for it to be closed with the government hearing. We included in the State Budget a standard to recognize caregivers and which commits the government to strengthen social support and rest in the caregiver in 2019. To this standard, the PCP wanted to add a pilot project; the PSD wanted to add a rule that is not about informal caregivers; the NAP made copy-paste of a draft resolution that is already in the Commission and the CDS put a standard in which it proposes 15 days of rest, when the law already defines the right to 90 days of rest for informal caregivers, plus two and a half months than what the CDS proposes. The real problem is not what the law says about rest. It is the price, it is the lack of social security support and the lack of vacancies. That's what we need to work on! The Block does not oppose any budgetary measure that can be positive for caregivers. However, we do not deceive caregivers. We will begin to answer them seriously when we have the status. All our commitment is for this status to see the light of the day. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u278	We move on to Article 102. o — Transfer of VAT to social security, and to proposals 156 - C, from the CFP, 546 - C, from the CSD-PP, and 879 - C, from the PSD. Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The institutions of the social economy, in particular the IPSS, provide a relevant service to Portuguese people, in particular citizens in situations of greater fragility. That is why the greatest injustice is that these institutions, which result from the goodwill and humanism of Portuguese people, are disrespected and not safeguarded by the government which contractualizes support for children, young people, the elderly, the disabled and the needy. It is sad, but this government does not respect these institutions because since 2017 the Government has not returned VAT to IPSS, jeopardising its financial stability and the quality of its services. That is why the PSD presents a proposal aimed at correcting this huge injustice. It's not worth everything! It is not worth keeping the VAT money that is from the IPSS! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u280	Article 106 is hereby followed. o — Social benefit for inclusion. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal reveals worrying figures on demographics. We have an increasingly aging society with less and less births. This is a problem that should concern us all because we have to create and revise public policies in order to support families and births. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u282	We therefore regret from the outset that this concern about the reversal of this « demographic winter » is not reflected in this State Budget for 2019. That is why the PSD has proposed a set of measures to support families and births, always taking into account the need to reconcile the reconciliation between family life and working life. We therefore propose an increase in money for day care, and the Government should strengthen cooperation agreements with the sectors of the social economy and increase the coverage rate of such equipment throughout the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u283	We propose that the timetables of these establishments be extended to make the situation of the work of the parents compatible. We propose the creation of support for companies that invest in the creation of kindergartens and kindergartens. We also propose greater fiscal justice for families with more children, thus increasing IRS deductions for education, training and health costs. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These are fundamental proposals for the good of the country and of the Portuguese. They must therefore be approved in this plenary. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u284	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Chapter VII — Active operations, regularisations and guarantees. To intervene on Article 121. Mr Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The public debt in Portugal rose successively with this government, reaching the historical maximum of close to EUR 250 billion in 2018. As a percentage of GDP, Portuguese public debt is the third highest in Europe. This level of public indebtedness is too high a risk for Portugal not only because it adversely affects economic growth but especially because it represents a risk factor for the country, for families and businesses, with turbulence in international financial markets. In addition, Mr. Members of the Government, the Government has no credible basis in this Budget to justify EUR 800 million of net financing needs, and Parliament could therefore never « pass a blank check » to this Government without justification. The PSD therefore believes that the government must be more demanding in reducing debt and proposes to reduce by 10 % the limit of the indebtedness that is authorized by Parliament. But the PSD goes further: fiscal consolidation since 2016 depends too much on contingent factors and which are not repeatable, such as improving the conditions for financing the State or dividends of the Banco de Portugal, which result largely from the ECB's expansionary monetary policy ( the European Central Bank ) which is beginning to change. Therefore, the PSD proposes in the State budget that these gains, which are of a provisional and temporary nature, be applied to debt reduction, as was done in the past with privatisations. With this government, Portugal is at the mercy of external shocks that can beat our economy at any time. And for the PSD, this situation is unacceptable. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u286	Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u287	Mr President, I wanted to make an intervention, but there is no need. There is no need to remind the PSD that public debt is finally falling in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-11-26.u288	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our script for today. It is therefore my duty to announce that our next session will take place tomorrow, for 10 hours, with the following agenda: discussion of the rules of law, vote on the rules of law and the continuation of the discussion, in the speciality, of the Bill No 156 / XIII / 4. a — Approves the State budget for 2019. The times available for this purpose are those in the electronic picture. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 56 minutes.]]
