ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities to open gallery doors to the public. I begin by wishing everyone a good year of 2018. The first item on today's agenda, which was not scheduled for the previous week, is the reading of a message from Mr President of the Republic, which will be made before the political statements. Meanwhile, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will do the favor of reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to motions for resolutions Nos 62 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Council of Europe Convention on Counterfeiting of Medicinal Products and similar Infringements involving Threats to Public Health, opened for signature in Moscow on 28 October 2011 which falls to 2. the Commission, and 63 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention of the Council of Europe against Human Trafficking, opened for signature in Santiago de Compostela, on 22 March 2015, which falls to 2. the Commission. The projects of lein.o 710 / XIII ( 3 ) were also entered. ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code by assigning Carnival Tuesday as a compulsory national holiday ( NAP), 711 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the law on the monitoring of European affairs ( CDS-PP ), 712 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Revokes the application to public servants of the adaptability and hourly bank mechanisms by the fifth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Law on Public Works ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 713 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the employer's business framework, ensuring effective compliance with working hours and reconciliation of work with family life and repealing the adaptability and hourly bank mechanisms, in group modalities and by collective regulation, taking place at 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 714 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the employer's duties framework, ensuring the effective performance of working hours and reconciliation of work with family life and repealing individual adaptability mechanisms and the individual hourly bank, starting at 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 715 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Renews the principle of the most favourable treatment and regulates the succession of collective labour agreements by proceeding with 12. the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 716 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotes the participation of workers in safety and health at work ( first amendment to Law No 102 / 2009 of 10 September establishing the legal regime for the promotion of safety and health at work ) ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 717 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May on the monitoring, assessment and delivery by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the construction process of the European Union ( PSD ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 718 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Abolition of value-added numbers and additional availability of telephone lines with the prefix « 2 » for contact with public entities and companies providing public services ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 719 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Takes more guarantees of animal welfare with regard to the transport of live animals ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 720 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the arrangements applicable to the out-of-court collection of overdue claims and to undertakings engaged in this activity ( PS ), 721 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations ( amends Law No 5 / 93 of 1 March ) ( BE ), 722 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August by strengthening the means of monitoring, assessment and pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union ( BE ), 723 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines that for each three buildings under local lease the owner shall ensure that the property is intended for long-term lease ( PAN) and 724 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure with regard to the crime of ill-treatment of animals and related articles ( PAN ). Finally, draft resolutions 1212 / XIII ( 3 ) were introduced. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an agro-food scientific committee ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1213 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the seasonal wetland of fresh water from Alagoas Brancas ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1214 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement a regime in which the transport of live animals via long-distance travel to third countries is permitted only in exceptional situations ( NAP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1215 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government do not provide for any public incentive for livestock production undertakings exporting live animals to third countries ( NAPs ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1216 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt the measures recommended in the follow-up report on pollution in the Tejo River, promote monitoring of the river course and water quality, promote the review of the Albufeira Convention and take a position on the Almaraz Nuclear Central ( PSD ), 1217 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to disseminate and facilitate the application of animal welfare legislation ( BE ), 1218 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the study of tourist cargo capacity in certain cities and promote tourism activity in areas with lower population density (NAP) and 1219 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a working group to develop a plan to prevent and deal with the cases of Noé's syndrome, better known as « animal accumulation » ( PAN ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us therefore enter the agenda, the first item of which is the reading of the message of the President of the Republic who returned, without promulgation, the Order of the Assembly of the Republic No 177 / XIII, concerning amendments to the Law of the Organization, the Functioning and Process of the Constitutional Court, the Law of the Political Parties, the Law of the Financing of Political Parties and the Election Campaigns and the Law of the Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing. The basis for this non-promulgation is the message that I read: « Your Excellency President of the Assembly of the Republic, I address your Excellency in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic, concerning the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 177 / XIII, amending Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of the Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ), Organic Law No 2 / 2003 of 22 August ( Law of the Political Parties ), Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ) and Organic Law No 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Law of the Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing ). The regime of financing political parties and electoral campaigns is structural for democracy and essential for the credibility of its institutions. Moreover, as regards it, political parties are, by the nature of things, obliged to special publicity and transparency, so that they cannot be unjustly seen as deciding for reasons of strict self-interest. The Decree submitted to the promulgation contains two types of material. One, which was the basis for its preparation, relates to the supervision of party finances by the Political Accounts and Financing Entity and the Constitutional Court. This part resulted from the call for attention and then decisive contribution from the Constitutional Court in a procedure which I have followed since the first hour and in which, despite the technical nature of the amendments, there was minimal justification in parliamentary work. In fact, the Project Motives Exhibition that has become the Decree enables us to understand the scope of the innovations introduced, moreover, the object of express, even if succinct, mention in plenary. However, the Decree adopted by the Assembly of the Republic concerned the monitoring of party finances, other appreciable provisions, two of which are particularly relevant, in relation to the mode of financing and in their entirety a significant change in the current regime: the end of any overall limit to private financing and, at the same time, the non-reduction of public funding translated into the VAT exemption scheme. All in a line of openness to the rise in revenue and therefore the expenditure of the parties. unlike the success of the other part of the diploma, as regards the above provisions there is no justification in the Exhibition of Reasons. Moreover: there was no word of explanation or defense in the parliamentary debate in plenary, the only one, in the present case, capable of documentary access by the Portuguese. That is, a fundamental matter in the field of party financing is changed without it being possible to know, from the process of drafting the law, the reason for being the choice made. There may be and there are several positions on this subject: from the trend towards drastic reduction of revenue and party expenditure to the orientation for its unlimited increase, through intermediate solutions of periodic adjustments to the limit, depending on the most various factors; from exclusively private financing to exclusively public financing, through mixed, dominant private or public systems. What cannot be decided without any justification for the legislator's choice. Democracy is also the adoption of decision-making processes that can be controlled by the citizens. This is called advertising and transparency. Regardless of my personal position, unlike the one enshrined, as President of the Republic, I cannot promulgate legislative solutions, knowingly essential, without any knowledge of their grounds. Therefore, in honor of the constitutional role of political parties, requiring in this particular area publicity and transparency, which prevents negative judgments for the credibility of such important democratic institutions, those that feed undesirable populisms, I understand that the Assembly of the Republic should have the opportunity to reconsider the matter. This will enable it, in particular, to proceed immediately to the debate and to the basis, with public knowledge, of the solutions adopted on the method of party financing. Or, alternatively, to purge it in order to safeguard the entry into force without delay of the rules on supervision by the Political Accounts and Financing Entity and the Constitutional Court. Therefore, without enactment, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 177 / XIII amending Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Organization Act, Operation and Procedure of the Constitutional Court ), Organic Law No 2 / 2003 of 22 August ( Political Parties Act ), Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns Financing Act ) and Organic Law No 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Organization and Operation Law of the Entity for Political Accounts and Financing Act ). Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa President of the Republic. Do not keep on seeking. ” Let us therefore, as agreed today at the Conference of Leaders, hold a first debate on this message from the President of the Republic, for which each parliamentary group has three minutes and the NAP has one minute. in the few moments when there was debate immediately following the reading of the message by Mr President of the Republic, there were already two solutions: one, to wait for the Members' registrations and the second, to start with the smallest party member until the party with more expression. [[Pause.]] The Bureau recorded the inclusion of Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group for an intervention. Therefore, from now on, all other parliamentary groups can register for the same purpose. Please, Mr. Pedro Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The President of the Republic has decided to return the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic on party financing on the basis of the lack of publicly sound reasoning on the change introduced in the way in which political parties are financed. We note that the President of the Republic does not question the constitutionality of the diploma or identifies reasons for content on the basis of his veto. With this decision, we believe that the possibility of a new assessment of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic on amendments to the Party Financing Act is opened. The bloc welcomes Parliament's return to this issue by solving the problems of scrutiny and transparency that have raised the presidential veto, but also concern, controversy and debate in society. At all levels, the Assembly of the Republic must be exemplary in democratic processes which, necessarily, because it is a principle of democracy, must be subject to public scrutiny from the beginning to the end, because only that is clear and indeed democratic. The opposite gives rise to all disorders and populisms like those of which this case was an example. This new moment of parliamentary review will also help to correct and improve the law, taking into account the public debate that has taken place. The Block is available and interested in improving the Law, reaffirming everything it has been defending, in particular in previous legislative initiatives on financing, taxation and the maximum requirement for monitoring the parties' accounts. As soon as the legislative process is opened, the Block will present its proposals publicly, always safeguarding the corrections recommended by the Constitutional Court to the parties, in order to ensure the constitutional soundness of the Party Financing Act and the strict monitoring of its accounts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u5	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, in December last year, this House discussed and voted for amendments to the Political Party Financing Act, the Greens voted in favour. And we voted in favour because we consider, in fact, that these amendments were and are appropriate and timely. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the Act currently in force presents problems from the point of view of its conformity with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, problems which were even signalled by the Constitutional Court itself, as, moreover, is public. On procedural matters, it is worth recalling that this Act was scheduled by consensus at the Conference of Leaders, without opposition from any political force, including the forces that voted against these amendments, and the same is said about the times distributed for its discussion. In fact, the grid established for the discussion of these amendments was also consensual at the Conference of Leaders and the same Conference of Leaders was even sensitive to the requirement of one of the parties who voted against but who did not have the right to vote in this debate - in this case, the NAP, which required time for this discussion, to which the Conference of Leaders acceded, and which, after all, did not use it. On the content, and more specifically on the two questions presented in the message by Mr President of the Republic, I am now referring to the limit for the raising of funds and the question of VAT ( value added tax ). On these matters, it is important to say that the Greens have always defended a system of financing the semi-public parties and therefore it does not seem to us to make sense that they impose limits on the political parties' own activity in order to raise funds. That is, as long as this fund-raising meets the criteria of transparency and supervision, we see no reason to limit the political parties' own activity and therefore we consider it meaningless to limit or establish ceilings for the raising of funds by political parties. As regards VAT, there is little more because the scheme is not amended, which is some clarification in order to prevent the Tax Authority from deciding which actions fall within the concept of party activity. What is intended is to withdraw the discretionary power of the Tax Authority to decide, for example, that a congress or convention of a particular party does not fit this concept of party activity and, in other cases, considers that it does, yes, fit. That was exactly what was intended to prevent. Therefore, the Greens, while respecting the decision of the President of the Republic and even admitting that there may be a new discussion in plenary on the subject, believe that this House has all the conditions to confirm the amendments which were adopted in December...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u7	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u8	... so the forces that have proposed and approved the amendments remain available for this purpose. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u9	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We follow the presidential veto on amendments to the Party Financing Act. This veto strengthened the sense of vote of the NAP, which was opposed to the package of proposals, which includes further measures, to the issue of the recommendations made by the Constitutional Court regarding the supervision of party finance. We accept the suggestions of the Constitutional Court, but we cannot agree with the end of the global limit for fund-raising, which opens a dangerous precedent for potentially opaque funding to political parties. Much less we can agree with the total refund of VAT for all party actions, which, in our view, institutionalizes an unfair and disproportionate privilege for political parties. The NAP will submit amendments to withdraw these measures, while maintaining the rules on supervision by the Entity of Accounts and the Constitutional Court. We believe, yes, that a democracy has costs, we argue that the financing of the parties must be eminently public,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u11	Ah! Hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u12	... but the operating rules shall contain limits and brakes and shall be discussed by all.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u14	Mr José Silvano of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has naturally received the decision of the President of the Republic. Democracy worked, the Assembly of the Republic exercised its powers and the President of the Republic too. A golden rule of democracy has been fulfilled. It is important to say that no political party should be insensitive to the manifestations of our citizens, and it is clear that Parliament, as a whole and in its plurality, must find new ways and solutions that meet the Portuguese people and their desire for greater scrutiny of the procedures of the Assembly of the Republic. We have already said, and we repeat today, that we live together and continue to live as long as it takes with this Law, we are not in a hurry to change it. The President of the PSD Parliamentary Group has also already said that we will wait for the election of the next leader to take a public position on this matter. In conclusion, it must be said that more than a dozen amendments to the Law were proposed and only two of them deserved public challenge. The President himself said in his message that if we withdrew two of them, he would be willing to pass the diploma. A lot was good and the Portuguese should know that. This Decree also contains positive changes and made with great consensus. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u16	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS welcomes the veto of the President of the Republic to the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic which approved the amendments to the Party Financing Act. In fact, the CDS, through its President, Dr. Assumption Cristas, has appealed to the President to return this legislation to the Assembly. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] This veto is thus understandable, expectable and by us even desirable.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u19	As we had the opportunity to say here in plenary on 21 December, the problem with these amendments was the 'now': now more this, now more so. We repeat: the issue of solving constitutionality problems in the party account monitoring model, two amendments were introduced which call into question this model and the transparency of funding. We repeat what we said from the beginning: we are against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u20	All right! [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u21	Having not, in fact, these two rules out of the party's consensual proposal, the CDS came out. We are therefore of a calm conscience, for we have warned in time. [[All right!]] [[Protests of PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u22	We therefore consider that the limit should be maintained in the raising of funds from the parties — in fact, as the Constitutional Court has warned, is where there are serious problems of supervision at the moment — and we are against the extension of the VAT exemption in respect of all the expenditure of the parties. Each of these changes is serious, but the two joints are very serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u23	That's fake! That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u24	There should also be no doubt as to the possible retroactivity of these amendments.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u25	It's fake too! That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u26	That is why the CDS has already announced that it will propose changes in this direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u28	We hope that the Assembly of the Republic will approve them; if they are not approved, we will propose the repeal of these rules in the Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u30	The veto of the President of the Republic gives all parties a new opportunity to correct the mistakes they have made. The worst thing to do is to give reasons for populism, in this legislative process or in any other way. [[PS's, BE's, PCP's and Greens' laughter and protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I repeat: the worst is to give reasons for populism to manifest itself and therefore we appeal to all parties to join the CDS, correct these errors and approve the amendments that the CDS will propose. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u31	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The veto of the President of the Republic to this diploma on party financing makes it clear that there is no problem of unconstitutionality. This was a problem which, for several days, was shaken by public opinion and published opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u33	So why has the diploma been vetoed?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u34	The veto of the President of the Republic was carried out in the exercise of a political power to politically veto something that he politically disagrees with. He called on the President of the Republic to 'no publicly scouting grounds' for the options contained in this diploma. It is important to say that we do not remember an unscrutinised matter that has been as carefully scrutinized as this one. Unfortunately, it was not scolded on the basis of clarification, on the basis of debate, on the basis of clarification, it was scolded on the basis of mystification, on the basis of lies, on the basis of slander... [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] ...and, including, on the basis of falsehoods on its content. The fact that CDS repeats a lie a thousand times doesn't make it true! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u35	Is Mr. President of the Republic a liar or is the CFP ashamed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u36	Mr. President and Mr. Members: There was no secret work on this subject, there was an informal working group, based on a suggestion from the Constitutional Court, in which the CDS participated from the beginning to the end—of the principle at the end! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] This working group assessed the possibility of presenting a legislative initiative by party leaders. The conclusion of this viability, of course the CDS disagreed with two concrete questions... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u37	It is true that he disagreed with two concrete questions,... [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u38	We don't miss the truth! We don't miss the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u39	... but the assessment of the other party leaders that it was possible to present a legislative initiative led to their presentation. The legislative procedure shall be public from the beginning to the end. There is no request for publicity to a non-existent process, because until the presentation of the legislative initiative, what was the assessment of the feasibility of the presentation of a legislative initiative and, from the moment it was concluded by this feasibility, it was presented and scheduled, without the opposition of the CDS, with a grid to which the CDS did not oppose. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Don't talk in secrecy, because clearly there was no secrecy. We will naturally wait for the debate on the confirmation or amendment of this diploma. But we want to say something very clear: the CFP does not deny anything that it has signed and approved and does not let itself be intimidated by any campaigns to manipulate public opinion. They don't intimidate us! [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] Mr President, in conclusion, we want to say that the CFP has always opposed and continues to oppose the Law coming from 2003, which has scandalously increased public subsidies, seeking to prohibit the possibility of parties entering their own funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u40	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u41	These amendments do not change their essential matrix, but they contain improvements that we think are important for clarification and transparency of the one who is party funding, and that we do not abdicate. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u42	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr. Jorge Lacão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Democracy works. The Assembly of the Republic exercised its power to pass a decree. The President of the Republic, in his political scrutiny, considered returning this decree for further consideration to the Assembly of the Republic. We therefore accept as completely normal the exercise of that power by Mr President of the Republic. Moreover, the circumstances of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly provide for a period of 15 days until the possibility of re-evaluation of the diploma means a requirement for us to weigh arguments, in particular when they are established by the President of the Republic in his interinstitutional relationship with Parliament. That is why we have every willingness to make that same recompendation. however, I would like to point out from the outset that it is clear from the message of the President of the Republic the climate of institutional cooperation between the political parties in this House and the Constitutional Court. If we remind ourselves that, in addition to the principle of the separation of powers, there is also a principle of interdependence that calls for trust between the holders of the organs of sovereignty, the Assembly of the Republic as a whole gave a lesson of confidence in the way it established this relationship with the Constitutional Court in the preparatory process of the diploma concerned. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u44	Of course, it may and may legitimately be questioned about the justification and advertising conditions that the diploma can obtain at its legislative stage. We are available to consider all the implications of improving parliamentary work, particularly on the scheduling criteria. For this reason, today it was raised at the Conference of Leaders, as everyone knows, the possibility of a specific reflection on how the schedules, scheduling times and the preparatory conditions of the diplomas are adequately realized. However, I would like to stress that, in relation to the fate of the Decree, the Socialist Party remains fully available, as it has maintained throughout preparatory work, to dialogue with the political parties as a whole. And because this is the case, we are fully available for the call for this matter to be settled in the shortest possible time. We will respect the calendars of others. for our part, we are available to start the work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u45	Mr António Carlos Monteiro asked for the floor for a second speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I have asked you to tell Mr António Filipe that we do not accept that he calls us liars. [[PCP protests.]] Mr António Filipe knows very well that it is true from the outset that the CDS said it was against. What the honourable Member does not say in this plenary—and that is the truth—is that it is against the monitoring of the parties' accounts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u47	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u48	... which was established in 2003.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u49	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u50	That was important to be said here! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u51	Now he's being a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u52	So, Mr.António Filipe, we did not take home riots, we did not accept what you just said and make it very clear that we warned and, from the outset, we said that we were against these two amendments. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u53	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u54	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u55	Mr. President, if this intervention...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u56	Sir, I'm sorry, but what is the regimental figure you want to use?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u57	Mr President, that is what I shall put to your consideration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u58	Not to me! [[Laughing.]] Mr President, please say what you want to do. Do you want to intervene to defend consideration?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u59	Mr. President, if Mr. António Carlos Monteiro's intervention has been qualified as a defense of honour, as it seems to have been,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u60	No, no! It was an intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u61	I wanted to explain. Not being, we need to defend the honor of the bench against what has been said.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u62	So please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u63	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, from the outset, we made it very clear that the CDS disagreed with two provisions of this Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u64	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u65	This has never been omitted, which, in fact, shows that this process was not as obscure as anyone intended to make believe, and this became clear. It is also true that the CDS, from the beginning, which reminds me, has participated in all, I repeat, all the meetings of the working group...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u66	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u67	... and reserved its position on this point, as other parties, throughout the process, were evolving and reserving their positions and perfecting what they thought about it. That's how it was to the end. However, it is not true what you have been saying, i.e. that the provisions adopted are intended, in particular, to have retroactive effects. It is not true, simply! In particular, as regards disputes that some parties may have — it is not our case —...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u68	Yeah, no! That's the case with the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u69	... concerning the abusive interpretations of the Tax Authority as regards the application of VAT. It's good that this is clear! It's good that this is clear! Therefore, what you have been saying, including the possibility of amendments adopted at the VAT level, implies additional funding to the parties is not true. In fact, those who have come to defend that parties must depend almost exclusively on the state are you,... [[PCP applause.]] ... which in 2003 approved legislation in that regard. That is why, according to official data, the CDS is the only party that depends almost 100 % of the public grant. You live at the expense of the taxpayers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u71	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u72	Therefore, they have the way they refer to the other parties. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] I just wanted to say that we consider it a point of honor and it is scrupulously that there is transparency and that the monitoring of party financing...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u73	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that there is a need for strict supervision. Mr. António Carlos Monteiro knows the reasons for the complaint he has...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u75	It's been too long, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u76	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, the honourable Member knows the reasons for the complaint he has about the Entity for how he has treated his party even in matters of supervision.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u77	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u78	So, honourable Member, don't say no. We are in favour of maximum transparency and maximum supervision, but we do not confuse things as you want. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u79	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is almost fun that whoever offends and calls a liar is who invokes the defense of honor to attack the CDS again. [[PCP Protests and CDS-PP Counter-Protests.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Filipe, the CDS has been in this working group since the beginning and since the beginning of these two amendments. In fact, we have been alone against these changes and feel a calm conscience. And, Mr António Filipe, we have a calm conscience because it is enough to read the proposals adopted by you: the extension of VAT, yes, that is what is expected, when the Constitutional Court draws attention to the difficulties of supervision in fundraising. What is the solution that you have found? End the limit to fundraisers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u81	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u82	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u83	I remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, in Article 7. o — Transitional rules — it is written that these amendments apply to all proceedings, including pending proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u84	There are no retroactive tax rules!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u85	Therefore, I do not fail to note that Mr.António Filipe starts by calling me and the CDS of liars and then invokes a defense of honor to try to justify...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u86	There are no retroactive tax rules!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u87	... what the honourable Member says and which does not correspond to the truth. So I repeat, we are very calm and we appeal to all parties to correct the mistakes that have been made. I think it's important, even because it's these mistakes that populism is fueling.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u88	What feeds populism are speeches like yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u89	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned, we do not want to feed populism. We have warned in time and, therefore, we appeal again to all parties, without exception: we will correct this error. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u90	Let us begin the second item on our agenda, which consists of political declarations. Let us begin with the political declaration of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr. Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: following the political veto decided by Mr President of the Republic on the revision of the legal system of party financing — and regardless of the assessment to be made, as has now just been recorded — I believe that this is already the time, the place and the way to assume responsibility and clarify positions. It should be stressed that the review of this complex of diplomas resulted from an appeal addressed to the Assembly of the Republic by the President of the Constitutional Court, considering that the current regime affected procedures which, in addition to unconstitutional, create serious dysfunctions to the work of the Court. In response to these concerns, from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, an informal working group was set up to assess the possibilities of party understanding on possible legislative initiatives and in what terms. It was then established that the work would take place in a negotiating reserve framework, which is essential for maintaining informal contacts with the Constitutional Court, which is not a legislative body and only in an absent context of party disputes could collaborate with a view to a comprehensive solution. It is therefore time to say clearly: reserved and prior inter-party negotiations when initiating or culminating in a legislative process are an entirely common procedure in party democracy. Can anyone pretend to ignore how many such meetings of certainty occurred between the parties of the previous coalition and occur within the framework of the current parliamentary majority? Criticisms of the interparty working method lack a serious basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u93	The meetings of the working group were, as they had to be, reserved, but were not secretive. Your calendar is still on the website of the Assembly of the Republic and its coordinator, on 18 October, at a meeting of 1. the Commission, informed the Commission of obtaining a widely consensual text, having decided that the document should be sent to the management of the parliamentary groups and to the only Member of the NAP, for the appropriate purposes. No one was left out, but the beginning of the legislative process would have to take place only now, after subscribing a bill by whom he understood it, if he understood it. It is true that your subscription, your schedule and your assessment have focused on the last 48 hours of the parliamentary work of the past year. This procedure is not without criticism. The comments on the lack of public clarification deserve from us, without effort, reflection and acceptance. They deserve, without discontinuing the parliamentary calendar, very saturated, and yet pressured by the persistent and legitimate expectation — not to say just a necessity — of the Constitutional Court to see the defects indicated resolved, to the point of suggesting the entry into force of the law on the day of its publication. Without objecting to the meaning of what has been described, the PS Parliamentary Group intends to withdraw a fundamental consequence: the need for a redoubled surveillance by the strictest compliance of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, in particular with regard to the scheduling of diplomas, which should take place only after the early receipt of prior opinion in the legislative process, and the scheduling of projects only announced but without formal entry into the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic, including connection schedules, must be refused at the same time. The criteria for political opportunity should not replace procedural requirements. It is therefore important to take a clear position at the Leaders' Conference on some of the most controversial aspects in our scheduling processes. With regard to the matters of the Decree, I refer first of all to the lifting of the existing ceiling on fund-raising. It was the Constitutional Court itself that led to the treatment of the topic and everyone, with the exception of the CDS, considered that the existing rules ensured the suitability of the procedures. The parties are the only type of collective entity to deal with constraints on the ability to raise funds, perhaps finding no justification for the legal good to be protected: the value of transparency. Secondly, there is the question of VAT exemption, an existing exemption. The rule has been reported—and I quote—to all the acquisitions of goods and services for the business of the parties. In view of the provisions of its legal status, which provides for parties to pursue their purposes freely without interference from public authorities, we consider it to be avoiding the risks of discretionary tax administration in the qualification of the nature of party activities, which are exclusively linked to their political purposes, as a fundamental democratic principle. It was therefore a standard of clarification, and it is as such of good faith that must be understood.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u94	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u95	I will finish, Mr. President. Thirdly, as regards the alleged mobile of the PS in resolving its fiscal dispute, having therefore collaborated in conferring retroactive nature to the new law, it is absolutely necessary to say two things: first, the transitional rule expressly safeguard — and I quote — "the validity of all acts produced in the application of the previous law", thus not affecting any dispute pending in fiscal jurisdiction. Second, the rule fully transposes the solution as suggested by the Constitutional Court, which properly conceived it to better regulate the procedural issues between itself and the Entity of Accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u97	And because there is no more time, this is the clarity of all this and nothing more than this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u98	Mr Jorge Lacão, you have signed up to ask for clarifications of four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask you to inform the Bureau of how you intend to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u99	I answer once in a while, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u100	To make the first request for clarification, Mr José Silvano, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u101	Mr President, Mr President, Mr Lacão, past the parties, and after dust settle on the discussion of this problem and the specific issue of the informal group, whose existence, form and content here so well described, I wanted to ask you two questions, although not on my own behalf, because I was a member of this working group and I take part in this participation. In fact, I was educated to always take on my responsibilities, because those who participate take on the responsibilities of what they participate in. [[PSD applause.]] On behalf of the clarification of public opinion, which has been so intoxicated on this specific matter in recent times, I asked you to answer, firstly, a concrete question: with the parliamentary experience you already have, I would like you to tell us whether it is normal or not, whether it happened in previous years or not, the political parties meet in informal groups to obtain consensus on certain specific matters. Was that normal in this Parliament or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u103	Secondly, I would ask you, too, incisively, not that you doubt this, as I said to you, because I have already participated, the following: was it necessary for an informal group to, as it is said, discuss a benefit of itself? Did you feel that you were discussing a benefit of someone? These two issues are essential, not for me and may not be for the Assembly, but for the discussion and information of public opinion. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u104	To reply, Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u105	Mr President, Mr Silvano, I am grateful for your question, which may perhaps allow us to go even further into what is at stake. in my speech, I had the opportunity to say that, under the previous legislation — certainly no one doubt, and I gave two examples — many meetings will have taken place with the CDS in the context of the coalition then formed in a bilateral negotiating process. And no one will doubt that, within the current parliamentary majority, many are the interparty meetings necessary to exchange views and achieve results. One thing is this, another is the formal initiation of legislative procedures, with respect to the rules of the Assembly of the Republic. What we have seen in these days was the two moments and the two plans entirely confused. He asked whether, according to my parliamentary experience, and with regard to past legislatures, I would have something to say. I shall reply with the greatest honesty: I have recently heard a television commentator, who in the past was the leader of his Parliamentary Group, saying that the process conducted in the working group had been in his own words « a scandal ». This same commentator, at the height of the PSD Parliamentary Group, met with me informally, then in my condition as leader of the PS Parliamentary Group, and we linked our two parties to a constitutional review agreement at the highest level of the state's legislative process. at that time, as we know, he was President of his party Prof. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa and was Secretary General of my party the Eng.o António Guterres. The agreement between the two parties was concluded. That if you know, there was no, nor should there be, informal meetings and agreement between the parties, but there was a result, there was a subsequent legislative process, there was an approval of the Constitution and I personally, and I am convinced that your party too, pride us much of the work done on that occasion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u106	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u107	Mr President, Mr Lacão, I would like to congratulate you not only on bringing this matter up again for discussion in this plenary but, above all, on your efforts and contribution to clarify what is really at stake with the amendments to the Political Party Financing Act. In fact, there is much to clarify on this subject, especially after all that has been said and written in recent days. First, we heard voices say that these changes were unconstitutional, but until today no one has been able to identify the norm of our Constitution which is at issue with these amendments. And why? That's all because there's no confrontation with our Constitution. In fact, if there were any doubts, that would be clear in the message from the President of the Republic on this matter. however, the question of the constitutionality of these changes fuelled the discussion on this subject for several days. This example shows, however, very clearly, the distorted way in which the discussion has been discussed. Then came the discussion of the working group, as if it were not usual in the legislative process the existence of working groups. Then came the secretism conversation when, after all, all parliamentary groups participated in this working group. The NAP Member certainly did not participate because he did not want to. Then fiscal retroactivity was mentioned, when we all know that in our legal order there is no place for the retroactivity of tax rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u108	Well, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u109	And this had to be said, because I have doubts that those who insist on continuing to distort the path of this discussion will still win the business. We're still to see. We therefore consider that this path is sent, that it is necessary to clarify and therefore I greet Mr Jorge Lacão for the contributions he has made and also for bringing this discussion back to plenary. Finally, I have a request for clarification to make to you, Mr Commissioner: this path which the debate has known or has taken, I would say even, anti-party, is good or bad for our democracy, in the opinion of the honourable Member? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u110	Mr. Jorge Lacão has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u111	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, we know that it is fashionable to make parties the bonbo of the party when any pretext seems good. Firstly, I believe that the fundamental duty of a democrat, if he believes in pluralist democracy, is to understand that his first responsibility is to safeguard the dignity of political parties. Secondly, in order to safeguard the dignity of political parties, each party itself must behave with dignity. There is one thing I would like to highlight here: all the parties in the working group had a constructive, highly smooth and good faith attitude, and what I would expect is that this good faith would be brought to the normal consequences, however controversial the debate in public opinion was. When I see, for example, that in the framework of the working group, no one has raised any reservation on the transitional standard, nor do we have to assume this clearly, it has been accepted by all of us, by a proposal, better said, by a suggestion put forward by the Constitutional Court, and that, later on, if there is a problem of dubious constitutionality and the imputation that there would have been a pre-established intention in order to achieve a retroactive effect, that no one clearly wanted to achieve, yes, it is already a bad faith of political attitude. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And those who do so cannot speak of the dignity of political parties, because they begin by not knowing how to dignify themselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u112	You now have the floor to ask for clarification from the CFP Parliamentary Group Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u113	Mr President, Mr Jorge Lacão, would like to welcome your statement, which has been timely and has made it possible to clarify some issues, particularly procedural, concerning the operation of the Assembly, and to which I would add nothing. What I said about the way this process went is exactly what happened and contrary to any thesis of secrecy or less correctness of operation in the context of the interparty dialogue which would necessarily have to exist in such a matter. But, Mr, there are three issues of content that have been raised and that would be the major objections to these amendments. The honourable Member has already pointed out that there is no retroactivity, fully denying everything that has been said, which is now being blamed on the outstanding parties of millions due to an amendment which simply does not have that effect. As regards ceilinging, the following question is put: in a framework of mixed financing of the parties, in which there is a public grant component and a possibility component of private lending of party funding with all possible and imaginary controls... Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the law of financing of the parties in force has an impact on the parties possibilities of supervision which are intrusive — even more, abusively intrusive — which do not apply to any other entity, public or private, in this country. It is important to say this, i.e. to say that political parties are the most controlled entities in this country by the Accounts Entity and I believe that no one who has the slightest knowledge of cause in this matter will deny me. However, does it make any sense to maintain this picture that, in addition to donors being identified, the obligation to be made by bank transfer identified or properly identified cheques is to establish, in addition, an annual ceiling? And that a party which, in particular, wants to do remodeling works in a district headquarters is prevented from doing so when the financing law does not prevent it?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u114	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u115	I'm done now, Mr. President. My last question has to do with VAT. It is completely false to say that today, with the amendments that have been voted on, all the VAT supported by the parties was returned. That's not true. There is one point that would always remain in that any purchase of goods and services that is likely to affect the competition pays VAT, a party that has a...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u116	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u117	Therefore, Mr. Jorge Lacão, the question is whether it is acceptable for the Tax Authority to interpret the law to its free will in order to consider that a particular matter should be exempt but that another, identical, should not be. That is the point, Mr President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u118	To reply, Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u119	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, I thank you for the questions you have raised and I would like to stress the following: many times in this House we have had occasions to converge and we have had times to diverge. I believe that we both know that when we agree or disagree, we are deeply encouraged by a spirit of public service and an integral good faith in the attitudes we take in the defense of that public service. I therefore believe that you did very well to ask the questions you have raised. First of all, with regard to the fund-raising ceiling, I have had the opportunity to say — and I would like to stress this — that, when we think about it, it makes sense to ask ourselves whether there is a sufficient reason for parties to be the only type of organisation in civil society that has a constraint on the possibility of securing funding, when the parties are precisely that entity which has a special supervisory regime since donors cannot give beyond the limits laid down in the law, since the accounting system requires that identification, since there is an entity of accounts which controls, in full, wants the process of transparency of these various procedures. Therefore, in this sense, we consider that the issue of supervision identified by the Constitutional Court was fully justified and therefore sought to find a solution, preserving, as it is preserved, the fundamental value of transparency. Mr President, the issue of VAT is of the greatest importance and the honourable Member said the essential thing, because the essential thing is reflected in the law of political parties themselves. In this law there is an article which has under the heading « Principle of freedom » and this fundamental article says that parties — and I quote — « freely pursue their purposes without interference from the public authorities ». Well, of both: either the law allows the interference of public authorities or does not allow. The law doesn't allow it. Not allowing, really, the question that you put makes all the sense. Can there be discretionary interpretation by the tax administration of the nature of the acts practiced by the parties? We have come to the conclusion that we should not, and therefore we have clarified the law, but that is all we have done. We have clarified the law, I repeat, concerning all the activities of the parties, but the parties do not commit themselves to trade operations, the parties are bound by the same law to pursue exclusively political purposes, and that is what the detractors should explain and have so far refused to do. But it is our duty, and it is also our right, to speak clearly and not to be afraid to say what should be said. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u120	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u121	Mr President, Mr Lacão, I will ask you a question which seems to be the essential issue of the statement you made, not so much about what you said, but above all about what you did not say, and I believe all Portuguese were hoping that you would come here, on behalf of the Socialist Party, to announce. The honourable Member has come to tell the story a little bit. It has been said that there was a working group—it is true—that this working group intended to comply, accept, from the procedural point of view, some suggestions from the Constitutional Court—it is true—that the CDS participated in this good faith group—is true—and it is also true that, on the basis of this working group to accept suggestions from the Constitutional Court, it has made deeper changes, in particular by eliminating the limit of fund-raising. And now, by answering a question from the CDS by Mr António Filipe, I say: yes, Mr Deputies, for the CDS makes sense that there is a limit to fund-raising and makes sense that political parties are the only ones with that limit. Do you know why, Your Honor? It is that political parties are the only ones who can win elections and, by winning elections, they can govern chambers and rule the country. And it is precisely in the name of this transparency that, in order to avoid certain promiscuities, there must be this limit. [[CDS-PP applause.]] That is why, Mr President, the CDS, in early July, in September, in October, in November, in December, on December 19 at the Conference of Leaders, on December 21 at the plenary, at 10 a.m. and 34 minutes, said exactly the same as it says today, that is, it says yes to the suggestions of the Constitutional Court and, of course, says no to the issue, to the change of VAT in order to be more favourable to the parties. What are you guys talking about? Members are basically the following: The Entity of Accounts, the Constitutional Court, has doubts. What are you doing? Doubts are eliminated. All right, I agree with the principle of, in doubt, being more favourable to the parties. That is where we disagree, Mr, and that is what we have tried to explain to you. So, coming here, I end with the question you are asking: what will the PS do?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u122	I ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u123	I'm done now, Mr. President. As you said, Mr Deputy, I end with the following question: what are the PS juris? Will you or will you not approve the proposals presented by the CDS today?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u124	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u125	Will you or will you not respect the veto of the President of the Republic? Will you or will you not rephrase the VAT regime? Are you going to go back or not to have a fund-raising limit? These are the questions that the country expects to see answered. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u126	To reply, Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u127	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, if the honourable Member was right, he did not have, the current regime of the possibility of raising funds would be a regime made aside of transparency. That is because you have not spoken here, nor have you been careful to know whether you are right or wrong — in our view, you are right — the restrictions on individual appropriations for political parties. What you have just said is that, for reasons of transparency, it is in favour of the ceiling and against its elimination, which means that, if you are right, then the possibility of raising €630 000 within the ceiling may be hurt by lack of transparency. That's not true. You must recognize that it is not true, and if it is not true for this amount, what we have to ask is on behalf of which we prevent a very fundamental legal party, which has a talent to do so, from raising funds on its own initiative. This is the answer that the CDS has not been able to give so far. The honourable Member said: 'The working group met around the proposals, the suggestions of the Constitutional Court...' It is true. And he added: "and, to the ride of these...". No, Mr President, there was no ride of anything, there was a consistent work within this working group, in which all the issues raised by its members were openly discussed among all, without a ride or any sub-alternity. They were all treated equally, with seriousness and weighting. What you implicitly say is that your representation in the working group on other matters, not just these, which have been extravagant from the proposal of the Constitutional Court has been on their way. We do not offend you, because we respect your work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we respect yours, you know how to respect everyone else. Finally, the question about what we are going to do next is very simple to answer: we have worked together, seeking as much consensus as possible, we do not take off this attitude and we will keep it to the end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u128	For a political statement on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 2018 represents an increase in national minimum wage and a reduction in labour income taxes. It also represents the actual increase in pensions and the defrosting of careers. This year, 2018, is the year in which we do justice to Pedro Mota Soares’ injuries, extending the solidarity complement for the elderly to whom he reformed in anticipation with enormous penalties ; it is the year in doing justice to the unemployed, eliminating the 10% cut in unemployment allowance, which only punished those most in need of support. They're small steps, but they make the difference. The Left Block has contributed decisively to all these policies. We are proud of this and of the fact that we have made it possible, because with these policies pensioners will have higher pensions, workers will have higher wages and the unemployed will have better living conditions. But 2018 must be even more than this. The country also needs and requires 2018 to be the year of investment in public services, which is the year in which the National Health Service ( SNS ) begins to recover from the long years of subordination and the long years of deinvestment. That is the year in which we recovered the National Health Service from the evil that the PSD and CDS did to it when they cut the budget, when thousands of professionals left when they closed services, when they doubled the moderate rates, when they made access to health difficult, when they cut the SNS to deliver it to private people. Who needs the National Health Service, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you know how important it was to stop the destruction on the right, but you also know that there is still so much to do. When we still have hundreds of thousands of users without a family doctor, when we still have many consultations that are carried out beyond the legal limit, when we still lack health professionals, when we wait hours in the emergencies and when there are even hospitals to put patients in monkeys because of the overcrowding in the nurses, then we know that there is still much to be done. When there are still barriers to access to health care, when moderate rates and non-emergency transport payments prevent consultations and treatments, we know that we still have almost everything to do. When promiscuity between the public and the private withdraws doctors from the National Health Service and results in a consecutive and increasing income to the private, when this promiscuity degrades the public service and withdraws resources from it, then we have almost everything to do. When public-private partnerships (PPI) continue to be renewed, as recently happened, then we know that much more needs to be done. Yes, it was important to stop the right-wing project that destroyed our public health service, but it is now necessary to rebuild a general, universal and free SNS. António Arnaut recently said that the SNS is — and I quote — "dangerous and needing to be saved, if it will not only be missed" and follows this true statement with a proposal that is presented this week together with John Semedo : to review the Health Bases Law. Yes, there is a need for a new Basics Law that strengthens the National Health Service, where the private relationship with the public can only be complementary and never competitive, where the private cannot live at the expense of the degradation of the public and where money cannot be taken from the public to deliver to the private. [[Congratulations from BE.]] There is a need for a new Basics Law to purge public-private partnerships, real public money bakers from our National Health Service, which separates the public from the private, which ends with promiscuity, which ends with moderate rates and other payments that make access to health difficult. The Left Block wants to do this discussion, will participate in it and will present a proposal in the Assembly of the Republic to build a basic law that closes the doors to businesses made with people's health and, alternatively, opens the door to a new National Health Service of fully public management, with adequate funding for the investment you need to make, with the number of professionals sufficient and without barriers that prevent or limit access. These are the essential choices and this is the time to make them. Every day we adopt them is a day when the SNS gets worse. The National Health Service is a pillar of the social state, it is strategy and investment in the future because it is a condition of equality and quality of life. No policy to recover the country and the dignity of those who live here can pass by the National Health Service and the Left Block will not pass by the urgency that is to recover the SNS. We hope that no other party will go beyond this need. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u130	Thank you very much, Mr Moisés Ferreira, for the precision in the use of your time. The Bureau noted the inclusion of four Mrs in order to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u131	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u132	That is why you have the floor, firstly, to ask for clarification, Mr António Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u133	Mr. President, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, the true reform of the National Health Service, operated by this XXI Constitutional Government from 2015 onwards, was the conversion of human capital and the motivation of health professionals as well as the replacement of their working rights. I recall that between 2016 and 2017 more than 6000 new health professionals have entered, and I remember that only now, at the beginning of January, 3937 young doctors have entered to start their specific training and have already entered more than 116 inmates this year in the specialty than last year. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the real conversion made in a serious, responsible and sustainable way. This process is therefore essential for better access, greater readiness and better quality of services to our citizens. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, many of the arguments used here seem reasonable, fair and relevant. In fact, we assume that we have a sustainability problem of the National Health Service. But, attention, it was not us who decreed the guaranteed sustainability of the National Health Service; we well know who it was. We are working to reduce the consequences, particularly the early access of the Portuguese to the SNS, respecting the highest constitutional universal service, generally and tends to be free, it was not, in fact, a socialist father of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, a new health-based law is needed, improving and favouring the public sector and maintaining the private sector as a complement. Having no ideological prejudice in this area, we want an ever stronger, more self-sufficient and more sustainable SNS. I ask you: will the honourable Member and the Left Block be available for joint, comprehensive work, establishing consensus on this matter in order to make health protection an effective right to all citizens in freedom of demand and care in accordance with the Constitution and the law? I would also like to ask you, Mr President, about the need to provide the National Health Service with human, technical and financial resources necessary to carry out its functions and objectives. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party will be, as it has always been, in the front line to not let you overthrow the spirit that you chaired the National Health Service, respecting not only our history and our memory but looking at the future in a responsible and progressive way. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u134	Also to ask for clarification, Mr Luís Vales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u135	Mr President, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, made an intervention on a hypothetical amendment to the Health Bases Act promoted by Dr. António Arnaut and Dr. João Semedo, but what you want, and we know, even if you do not yet have the courage to assume, is to statize the Portuguese health system, is to abolish cooperation and link between the State and the private and social sectors, it is to end the conventions in the National Health Service. You don't care about people or the accessibility of patients to health care. If the price to be paid for the statization of the health system is more waiting lists, less consultations and less access to health, so much worse for people, who will be victims of this vision that everything has to be public and that private and private activities of solidarity are sin. As long as you bring this ideological talk to Parliament, the PSD Parliamentary Group wants to discuss what is going on in real life. The chaos reigns in the emergencies of SNS hospitals, which have overcrowded services, affecting thousands of people throughout the country, as well as having to wait more than five hours, as can be read in the Manhã Post issue of 30 December, and there are nearly 700 doctors to hire. And do you come with the conversation of the health system's statization? Oh, my God! You support a government that is debasing the National Health Service, where thousands of doctors and nurses are missing ; a government that has promised to reduce the use of emergencies, but instead has increased them, and very significantly ; a government that claims to reduce the use of so-called "training doctors", but we all know that it has increased these services to more than 100 million euros a year. Finally, it is a government without a north and no strategy. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, I ask you: how can the Left Block continue to support a government that says something and does its opposite, a government that has launched the health chaos, a government that is degrading the access of patients to health services?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u136	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u137	Finally, I would also like to ask the honourable Member whether the Left Bloc has already drawn a red line to the Government on this matter and whether it has already managed to convert the Socialist Party to more of its totalitarian drift which now seeks to turn the Portuguese into guinea pigs of your demagogy. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u138	To respond to the two requests for clarification, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr.António Sales and Mr. Luís Vales, I thank you for the questions you have raised. With your permission, I begin by replying to Mr Luís Vales. in fact, Mr Deputy, what we want is simple and public. He knows what we stand for — everyone knows: a National Health Service of quality, funded, with the appropriate budget and with public management, because we believe that health should not be a business and therefore public management is that it guarantees this principle and places the interest of users at the heart of their management and policy. But we also know what you want, what you have done and what you stand for. They throw at us with the stone of stagnation because they defend privatization — it's as simple as that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u140	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u141	We well remember the list made by your Government of the 30 hospitals to be handed over to the private sector, and we also recall, because it is recent, what is mentioned in the report by the Court of Auditors — the honourable Member will know — about the delivery of the Northern Rehabilitation Centre to the Holy House of Mercy of the Port. It referred to the Court of Auditors as an opaque process, which did not take account of the public interest and which no studies were conducted. So we also know what you are defending. Mr António Sales, the minimums have been restored for the functioning of the National Health Service, and I said so recently in my political statement. We stopped the destruction that the PSD and CDS-PP were doing to the National Health Service, but now it is necessary to open a new chapter, which is to rebuild and rebuild the new National Health Service, once again making it general, universal and free—not only trendly free, but free. Therefore, we have listened very carefully to the words, including those of concern, by Antonio Arnaut, who says that a new basic law is needed, which says it is necessary to separate the public and the private, which says it is necessary to take away the business of the private, which says it is necessary to end the PPPs in health, which says it is necessary to channel this money that is wasted with the private to invest in the National Health Service. That is what we want and it is for this compromise that we are available, hoping that the Socialist Party will also be available. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u142	For clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u143	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, I greet you for bringing the issue of health to debate. The time it was put on the patients of the National Health Service not a diaper but a plastic bag replacing that diaper has passed. The time when the State Secretaries did not see evidence that they were patients hospitalized in macas in the corridors or chairs and that they said it was all right in the National Health Service, that the patients were very well accommodated and that the health care was being provided well has passed. The time when PSD and CDS-PP daily attacked the rights of workers and users of the National Health Service, thanks to the result and struggle of workers in 2015 has passed. In fact, he said very well that there is still much to do in the National Health Service. The serious, disastrous consequences and the ideological option taken by the PSD and CDS-PP regarding the National Health Service will still take a long time to overcome. There were timid advances in reversing this policy, but they are far from what is necessary and mandatory to do in defense of the National Health Service and it is not going further by choice of the Socialist Party, which does not want to be released from external constraints, debt, the euro and compliance with the deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u144	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u145	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, the question I put to you is this: does the CFP agree that the best defence of the National Health Service is in fact the fulfilment of the article of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which clearly refers to the right to health, i.e. the defence of the National Health Service universal, general and free, and the full end of the business of the large economic groups, which are bleeding the financial and human resources that are currently lacking the National Health Service and which are essential to comply with the Constitution? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u146	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u147	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, I would like to thank you for bringing the issue of health now, at the beginning of parliamentary work, and what is regrettable is that you did it for the worst reasons, because the Portuguese, who are following us, know that today, day by day, in the real country, health is the worst and most affecting areas. The CDS is available to discuss the future of the National Health Service and to, in the light of its set of values, those who have always defined, improve the health of Portuguese; it is not available for demagogy, nor to hide what is happening today in the National Health Service, for which this government, the government that you support, has indeed responsibilities. We are very concerned about this, and I do not know how Mr. Moisés Ferreira can convince the Portuguese that, two and a half years after he has been in office, it is the previous government that is responsible for what is happening today: waiting lines in the emergencies, patients in macas waiting to be hospitalized, patients in maca with refusal of admission and with need of transfer, which is prolonged for days. I know what I am talking about, Mr Commissioner, I know the Real Country and I regret that the Members who are in the field of health do not know that there are no materials, there are no medicines, there are cuts in the supply of medicines and that there are unhappy professionals, who sign documents to say that they are out of their responsibilities, such health professionals as you say you defend and that today they manifest themselves clearly dissatisfied with the working conditions they have in the SNS. Therefore, with so many problems, particularly shortcomings in INEM, delays in admissions and waiting lines in emergencies, not yet in the flu peak — I repeat, we are not still in the flu peak — and having a government that has ruled for two years and so on, we have to talk about responsibilities here. Who are the real leaders? Those who rule today. You are also responsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u149	You cannot forget that they support this government and that they are responsible for the consequences of the choices they have taken when they have supported a given State budget. You are responsible and cannot be relieved of these responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u150	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u151	I will finish, Mr. President. I ask you, Mr President, what will you do to demand that the government now govern — now, not spreading the problem and not ignoring itself in the past — to take steps to resolve chaos in emergencies, chaos with human resources, delays in consultations, debts to pharmaceuticals and problems with INEM? What's the Left Block going to do? I can't believe it's a motion of censure. So tell me what you're going to do to effectively move from words to actions. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u152	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u153	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, people feel every day degradation in the National Health Service. We just said in the political statement we just made. In fact, we have just said that we must act now, because every day that SNS passes, it degrades more, and it is not now. It's not a year ago, it's not two years ago, it's not three years ago, it's a long time ago, and your government has contributed decisively to this degradation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u154	Not yours? Oh, my God! Didn't you vote for the State budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u155	What Mrs Deputy and her Government have done to the National Health Service has contributed decisively to the degradation situation in which she is in. We do not need Manhã Post to know how the National Health Service is located,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u156	Don't you need it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u157	... nor to know the difficulties that users face, because we ourselves are these users,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u158	...because we ourselves know these users, because we know the reality of what happens. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Now, the question is to know what the solutions are. And the solutions that the CDS-PP would have to present and that in the past it presented were the salary cut to professionals, the redundancies in barda — were 4000 professionals lost in the National Health Service with its government —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u159	Say your solutions! Say yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u160	... and the cut of more than EUR 1000 million in the budget of the National Health Service. Great solution I had to present! [[You see the result.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u161	Mrs. Deputy asked for solutions from the Left Block. In the last State budget, we presented a proposal for a multi-annual investment and funding plan in the National Health Service, which did not even have the reception of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u162	No PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u163	After all, he doesn't want that investment, but we're going to keep insisting. We will continue to insist, yes, because we agree with what Mrs Carla Cruz said: it is necessary to comply with the right to health. It is necessary to comply with the right to health and what you know today and feel is that the policy of the PSD and CDS-PP did not leave you missing but left deep wounds—...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u164	What about your politics? Oh, my God! What about yours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u165	... I repeat, deep wounds—that it is necessary to resolve and heal. So we bring a solution: review the Basics Law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u166	It's hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u167	... because we cannot continue to waste millions of euros, hundreds of millions of euros, billions of euros with private businesses removed from the National Health Service. Yes, fulfilling the right to health is fulfilling the National Health Service and the National Health Service is a public service, with public management. Therefore, we propose that the Basic Law be revised so that it be consecrated and made clear. The question here is whether the PSD and CDS-PP want to accompany us in this defense of the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u168	Did you agree with the PS or the CDS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u169	For a political statement, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: contrary to what Mr. Prime Minister said at the wrong time, 2017 was not a particularly tasty year. on the contrary, and quite the contrary, it was a year in which Portugal was well on what does not depend on the government but in which the state has failed, cryingly, where it is most needed and where its mission is absolutely irreplaceable. We all need to understand, until it repeats itself, that in 2017 the government failed to fight fires, failed to protect people and unfortunately continues to fail in support of the victims. The year 2017 was the year in which the quality of public services gradually continued to deteriorate, while late payments continued gradually to increase. It was a year in which weapons from the barracks disappeared and in which so far no one can explain what happened and, much less, the Minister of the Guard. It was a year in which we heard all the time about reintroduction of income, but in which, after all, the tax burden has even increased. It was a year in which, in view of what was known in the case of the Very rare, we had a minister to deny all responsibility. It was finally a year when Parliament decided to adopt amendments to the law on the financing of the parties to the issue — yes, to the issue! — compensation and suggestions from the Constitutional Court, but reaching decisions that little or nothing has to do with these suggestions, i.e. setting the end of any global limit on private financing and a VAT exemption scheme. The CDS understands the dangers of easy populism and that is precisely why we have been, and we are against these amendments. There is no better way to open the door to an anti-party and anti-political discourse than the parties themselves legislate, even more on a matter like this and without basing their positions in an opaque and retroactive manner and, apparently, in some cases, without their own consent to the votes expressed in this same plenary, it has not been long. If we do not all understand this lesson, which is a real lesson from almost everything that must not happen in Parliament, we will hardly get Parliament to regain the confidence of the Portuguese people who have been shaken by this episode. If this Parliament still, as we have seen this afternoon, thinks that everything went very well with this process and that there is nothing to correct, we are now digging into a very dangerous gap between Parliament and the country. The CDS has appealed to the veto of Mr President of the Republic to these amendments and is now following the content of the message of this same veto by proposing the elimination of the total VAT exemption, the elimination of the end of the limit for fund raising and the elimination of retroactive effects. Correcting, and correcting quickly, this huge mess was a good way to start well this year what ended very badly last year. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government has decided to start 2018 by giving its wings to its ability to create new forms of austerity. Thus, it decided to start the year with another one to increase the tax on oil and energy products ( ISP ), this time the pretext of inflation. When the government began its mandate, it increased gas oil and gasoline on the pretext that the increase was neutral and that it was only to compensate the State for the loss of tax revenue with the decrease in the price of oil. When the price of oil increased again, after all, the increase was no longer neutral, it was even the state to pick up more and more when the Portuguese needed to fill the deposit. Now, apparently, the pretext is inflation. That is to say, whether the price of oil goes down, whether it goes up or keeps up, there is always a new pretext for raising taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u171	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u172	If we compare the price of diesel on January 1 of this year with the price of two years ago, before the first increase of this government, on February 8, 2016, we see that the Portuguese are paying more than 33 cents per litre. In other words, this means that supplying a 60-litre fuel tank costs more than 20, 16 € than it cost in February 2016. It is the real face of the new austerity of this government, which takes away with one hand what you have restored with the other. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u173	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u174	in the same way, the Government came, at the beginning of the year, back in the promises and commitments made, with regard to the IRS, approving the retention tables at the source of IRS, which, in practice, postpone, for another year, the end of the overtax and the changes that they so greatly appreciated in this year's budget and during the campaign of the autarchics. It seems that another electoral campaign will be needed for the Portuguese to feel in their pocket the promises of the current majority, as far as the IRS is concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u175	A simulator was good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u176	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this scenario where the Government is trying, by increasingly creative means, to seek more and more revenue, it is particularly incomprehensible that it decides to take a revenue which, even by legal imposition, should be to apply in social action, in those who need it most, and will apply it in bank and in financial speculation. I speak, of course, of the truly pilgrimage idea, whose authorship many deny, probably not by chance, to take on recipes from the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa and to apply them in the capital of the Montepio bank. That is to say, truly, and you put things in a cruelly, take out those who need the most to give a bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u177	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u178	I will finish, Mr. President. On this subject, the CDS has already requested the hearings of Minister Vieira da Silva and Mr Provedor of the Holy House of Mercy, which was approved yesterday. I conclude by saying that, in this matter, as in all those in which Portugal needs a firm and constructive opposition, the CDS says « present». We will start the year with a congress to define strategies, a parliamentary journey to propose policies and with our initiative to listen to Portugal, because we know that in politics proximity cannot only be a speech, it must, above all, be a practice. This is the task of the opposition and this is the mission of the CDS. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u179	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record the registration of two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u180	at the end, both together.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u181	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u182	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has noted that she understands the risks of easy populism, but, curiously, she is dedicated to creating a particularly difficult populism. The CDS is invested in creating — against the facts, against the reality and against what the country actually experiences on a daily basis — a parallel reality in which it tries to base its intervention. But in particular, it remains shocking that, even after two interventions dedicated to the theme of the party financing law, the CDS continues to insist on objectively manipulating what was discussed and what was presented. [[CDS-PP protests.]] I challenge Mrs Deputies, since it was not possible in previous debates this afternoon to say where the retroactive effect of the party financing law lies, when in reality what is reflected in the diploma is a norm that results precisely from the proposals put forward by the Constitutional Court to solve a problem of application of the procedural law over time, objecting that the CDS never had memory, nor capacity, to note the times when it worked in the working group which prepared the proposal for amendment of the law. Therefore, Mrs. Member, it is this difficult populism, a last-minute populism, which currently inspires the CDS. It is a populism that does not look at the reality of what was discussed seriously and is a populism that is available for everything, to try some demagogic tips in the parliamentary debate, because, in fact, if the CDS were interested in a serious debate about the balance sheet of what was the year 2017, perhaps, looked at those who are the real results of government. These real results may not be perfect, we may not all be satisfied with everything that has been achieved, but note that unemployment is still falling, that the deficit has not been consolidated, that public debt is not back, that we do not leave the excessive deficit procedure, that we do not leave the financial rating agencies' garbage, that we do not finally consolidate the banking system through a successful public recapitalisation of the General Deposit Board, that our European partners do not recognize this reality with the merit that they recognize to those who are Portuguese leaders and political leaders capable of achieving, that there was no increase in exports, that there was no increase in investment, that there was no replacement of income, wages and pensions, that the minimum wage has not increased is only in this fictional world in which the CDS continues to reside. And it's a world of fiction, curiously, very much like what the country was when the PSD and CDS actually governed it. These are the facts, Mrs Deputies, that are the objective indicators of economic reality and that effectively translate into an improvement in people's quality of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u183	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u184	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, these are the objective indicators of economic reality that effectively translate into an improvement in people's quality of life, a real increase in what is available in people's pockets and in what is available for them to be able to access public services, which, we know, are not yet at the ideal point that we would like but that surely built a much better, much more positive evolution than what we had witnessed. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, if you would like to make the 2017 balance sheet, perhaps it would be better for the country, Parliament and the CDS Parliamentary Group to look at the reality of the country rather than the notion of fiction that was being built in the CDS Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u185	To request clarification, Mr José Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u186	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I would like to say that you are right when you say that in 2017 the state failed and the government showed its true face, and this is even more important. The government showed arrogance, first of all; it showed deresponsibility, ignoring problems, especially by disregarding the social dialogue itself and the contributions and initiatives of other political forces of the opposition itself. The government showed insensitivity by ignoring the weakest, their problems, taking into account that they did not exist. The government imposed a hidden austerity, from indirect taxes and charges that currently penalize the Portuguese, perhaps more than ever. The government has allowed for a clear degradation of public services. The Government showed in 2017 what it really intends to do — and I congratulate the honourable Member for bringing this matter to the colloquium and this discussion. And more than that, in 2017, we came to know something serious, something that is not often discussed but that we know it affects all Portuguese too: never, in the last 30 years, mortality on roads has increased as much as this year. How do you comment on this aspect? You discussed here another issue that goes through the credibility of public life, the credibility of political life. Obviously, the financing of parties is a central aspect in this area, but also in this area, the reform of the political system, the reform of how politicians confront society, implies other matters, namely their proximity to voters, people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u187	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u188	...the number of Members, the number of electors in general. I would like you to express here the opinion of the CDS on these issues and the need for changes in these areas as well. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u189	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions and start by answering Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. Mr Delgado Alves accused me of populism, manipulation, fictional creation, finally, it was a real rain of accusations, perhaps to excuse some bad conscience, Mr. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]] I explain and I do it easily. With regard to the first question, namely the financing of the parties, he thinks that everything went very well with this process. I don't think so. I disagree. [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]] The honourable Member seems to think and agrees with the changes. I'm not, I disagree and I voted against. [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]] And this, Mr President, is not a fiction, it is a reality, it is what actually happened. The honourable Member has left me here a challenge, accusing me even of manipulation, when he asks me where the retroactive effect lies. Mr Deputy, in a so-called transitional standard, which reads as follows : « This law applies to new processes and pending proceedings on the date of their entry into force (... ) ». [[Protests by PS MP Jorge Lacão.]] Mr President, if the amendments adopted apply to pending proceedings, it is good to see that this means that the amendments will have a retroactive effect. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This seems clear and obvious to me. Mr President, you can call populist, you can call what you understand, but I would call-CL-it-sense, and I leave this challenge to you: Mr and the rest of you. Are you really convinced that everything went well with this process and that these amendments make sense? Frankly, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I doubt that there are a lot of people outside this room who find that, and if we continue to have discussions completely outside of what is happening outside of this room, I fear that we will end up having very little productive discussions. [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]] Secondly, you said in your speech that all this was fiction. Look, Mr. Deputy, I wish they were. I wish that many of the things I pointed out here, which were very serious and that happened in 2017 were fictions. Unfortunately, they're not. But, in spite of everything, at least serious, such as, for example, the increase in gas and gasoline, I challenge - to tell me where fiction is. I told you that gas oil has increased over the past two years about 33 cents per litre, say, here, whether it is true or false. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u191	I told you that to fill a 60-litre deposit, the Portuguese spent more than 20 euros. Whether it's true or false, whether it's fiction or reality. This is because, Mr President, I have some difficulty in having discussions with eloquent words and great speeches but then without facts and without numbers. And so I'd like to know, what I said, what is exactly a lie. And I would also like you to say whether the retention tables at the source of the IRS correspond to the amendments that were approved here or whether they correspond only to a small party, which makes the State fit the revenue and not make that refund, leaving this return, to coincide with the coincidences, Mr Deputies, the year of elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u192	Madam Member, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u193	Mr. Member, I could have brought many other examples, I could have talked about the increase of the General Deposit Box commissions,... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ... in what that means for many Portuguese pensioners, but I chose to bring these small examples of reality, and the honourable Member did not, in fact, deny a single one. I would also like to thank Mr Cesario and tell him that the CDS has certainly made opposition, which is firm and constructive, and has pointed out alternative ways whenever it denounces what is wrong and the government often tries to mislead us. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u194	For a political statement, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The concrete reality of the country is showing the consequences of the policy of abandonment and degradation of public services, public enterprises and State functions followed over the years by successive governments. Privatization and provision of services to economic groups, cuts and closures in business services, worsening the exploitation of workers and reducing jobs, disinvestment in operational capacity, increasing prices and tariffs have contributed to an increasingly unbearable situation for people and workers. The administration of TTCs has announced another package of measures that translate, and I quote, "a new stage" of the degradation of postal service quality. These measures include the destruction of jobs plus 800, the sale of assets, the closure of 22 more stations and post posts. From Riba d’Ave to Loule, from Lavradio to Calheta or Araucaria to Paio Pires village the plan is to continue dismantling the public service and squeeze everything that can bring profits, dividends and cash gains. It was also assumed the transmission perspective for the CTT Bank sphere of Payshop, which is the largest network of assisted presence payments in Portugal with more than 6500 contact points, a strategic asset of enormous value to pass to the Bank's business and control. Mail arrives to its recipients more and more later, in a less reliable and increasingly expensive way. The problem is not in the new technologies, nor in the number of workers, which are, in fact, much less than those that would be needed — mails should even strengthen their staff framework instead of continuing to reduce it — the TTC problem is incompatibility between the strategic role of the public service to be provided and the ultimate objective of privatization. It is therefore essential that this political problem be dealt with as such and that proper conclusions should be drawn from looking at this reality. The request of the CFP yesterday approved in Parliamentary committee to be heard by the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure is a contribution to this debate and, above all, to move from words to acts, because life is confirming, every day, that the problem is not the concession contract but, yes, the privatization of mails, and it is necessary to rescue the company, bringing it back to public management. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP considers that the problem of public services as a whole and also, of course, public transport requires an urgent response, cannot continue to delay the investments that have been announced. at CP ( Portugal Trains ), at EMEF ( Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, SA ), at Metro, Transtejo and Soflusa it is necessary to ensure the human and technical means in the operation and maintenance services of these companies, authorize the replacement of spare stocks and initiate a fleet repair plan. It is necessary to move forward with the infrastructure modernization works and to launch the competitions for the acquisition of rolling stock for the railway on several lines in the national network and it is necessary to strengthen the presence at the stations so that users and populations are not left out. Despite progress in various areas of national life, in the last two years, everyone agrees on one thing: the systematic degradation of these public services has been a constant and these services are getting worse. In the face of all this, an increase in public transport prices was announced, of 2 % on average, and certain securities could be priced up to 2 %, 5 %. That is, for the second consecutive year, we have the price of public transport to rise above inflation. After the increases accumulated over these years, the CFP reaffirms that what should happen would be a price reduction rather than a further increase. And if someone believes that more expensive rates mean more responsiveness and better functioning for companies, our answer is very simple: open your eyes and use transport. Also recently in the budgetary debate, the CFP intervened, proposing the end of the restrictions on the hiring of more workers, proposing the end of the use of so-called captives which limit the response by companies, proposing the strengthening of public investment by more than 23 million euros, either in the Lisbon Metro or in the inland waterway transport undertakings, which would be refused because of not having a favourable vote on the PSD or PS or the CDS. These are political options and each one who responds to them. On the other hand, it was announced again the increase of tolls on fundamental road axes, particularly on the motorways of the Algarve to Lisbon, from Lisbon to the Porto, from Porto to Valença, in the Marão Tunnel, on the Via do Infante, in Pinhal Interior, on the 25th April bridge, on the Vasco da Gama bridge, in Alverca, in the Maia, in the ancient SCUT one in every three ports will have an increase of the portage. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP, the system of services essential to populations, the economy, development and territorial cohesion is neither the sum of how many companies, part of them private and supported by the public record. What is needed is an urgent and structural response, able to reverse the path of degradation and recognize the right of Portuguese to quality public services. Governments cannot react only when a tragedy occurs. The power and interests of the monopolistic groups, the ice cream of debt interest, the European Union's taxation on behalf of the single currency cannot be overshadowed by the needs of the country and the people. The CFP does not give up this fight and calls on workers and populations to continue to make their voice heard. We will continue to act to respond to the country's problems with concrete solutions. This is what we talk about when we talk about the patriotic and left-wing policy that Portugal needs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u196	Mr. Deputies, five were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u197	Mr President, I respond first to two and then to the other three.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u198	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u199	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, first of all I would like to congratulate you on bringing about a matter as current and as important as the CTTs, because, in fact, when the previous government privatized the CTTs no one understood why. And no one understood why the CTTs, in addition to providing excellent postal service, still contributed every year with revenues to the state and, today, it is time to make a balance sheet to realize what happened after privatization. We see: hundreds of closed mail stations; fraud of the CTT heritage with the sale of several and important buildings; hundreds of postal recipes removed from the public way; dismissal of workers; increase of precarious links; increase of routes of each distribution turn; waiting times for service that have substantially increased; lack of money available at the stations for pension payments and other social benefits; generalization of situations where mail is no longer distributed daily and there are even locations, especially within the country, where the mail station only passes once a week. To this degradation of service we will still have to add the increase in tariffs, which, it is recalled, since privatisation have risen more than 50 %. That is, at this moment, and as a result of privatization, citizens pay more and the provision of service is less, at the same time as workers see their working conditions suffer a great setback. And, as if this were little, now, the CTTs are still preparing to fire more workers and lock up more post posts, as Mr Bruno Dias said of the rostrum. However, we believe that the only way to stop this offensive against postal service, to regain respect for the populations and workers of the TTCs, is to return the TTCs to the public sphere, moving the State to stop the control and management of the postal service. It was, in fact, why the Greens presented, about a month ago, here in the Assembly, a legislative initiative with the aim of bringing the TTCs back to the public sphere, but it was finally plunged. Nevertheless, we continue to consider that the only way out of the problem that is being created in the CTTs is exactly their return to the public sphere, and that is what I had to ask you about and which I would like you to pronounce. How do the Portuguese return to postal service as it existed before their privatization? Is there any solution for the return of TTCs to the public sphere? [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u200	To make requests for clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u201	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I congratulate you on bringing this issue back to the Plenary of the Assembly of the Republic and I begin by telling you that, since the TTCs were privatized, we have been witnessing a continuous degradation of the universal postal service. And this continued degradation of universal postal service is a matter that has merited the greatest attention and concern of the Socialist Party. Three weeks ago, the PS submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs a request that the administration of the CTTs, trade unions, workers' committees, the ANAFRE ( National Association of Fregues), the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP) and the Regional Governments of the Azores and Madeira should be heard here in Parliament by the Commission so that the true dimension of this degradation of the universal postal service can be ascertained. In parallel with this request to request these hearings, which will begin within days, the Socialist Party presented a draft resolution which was adopted here in the Assembly of the Republic with the votes against the PSD and the abstention of the CDS and which identified exactly the degradation of the universal public service since its privatization, a matter that is negatively assessed by the overwhelming majority, if not the whole, of the Portuguese and, nevertheless, did not deserve the support of the right, neither the CDS nor the PSD. This draft resolution presented a proposal, which was approved in this plenary, for: the Government constituted an informal working group; this working group evaluated the current concession contract, which was signed by the previous Government, PSD / CDS, and this group of shareholders holding the TTCs; in particular, it evaluated the degree of compliance with public service obligations and also the consequences and financial impact of all alternative models at the end of the concession contract. We would also like to say that, after the adoption of this draft resolution submitted by the PS, an operational transformation plan was announced by the administration of the CTTs which was delivered at the CMVM (Commission on the Securities Market) and which announces the extinction of 800 jobs and also the closure of tens, if not hundreds, of stations throughout the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u202	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u203	I'm done now, Mr. President. What is now important to assess, assess and examine is whether, in the current concession contract, public service obligations have been duly guarded and defended by the previous Government, PSD / CDS, and whether this assessment will be made by such a working group that the Government is constituting on a proposal from the Assembly of the Republic, through the draft resolution of the Socialist Party. To complete this request for clarification, I ask you: has the CFP accompanied this concern of the Socialist Party and the overwhelming majority of Portuguese, that this concession contract, signed by the former Government, PSD / CDS, failed to properly guard against public service obligations, particularly the universal postal service, and that with this who has been badly damaged, are the Portuguese, families and businesses? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u204	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. José Luís Ferreira and Mr. João Paulo Correia, I thank the questions put. There is one question that we must make clear, which is the following: to hand over the mail to the economic groups and to expect a concession contract to guarantee the public interest, the quality of service and the national interest, is the same thing as handing over the chicken to the foxes in the expectation that they will remain vegetarian. What is happening is the inevitable consequence of the business that the PSD/CDS government had in the previous mandate, when they integrated national interest into a strategic service for sovereignty itself, as is the public service of the post. And what is happening in Portugal is a more or less unusual and unbelievable situation—I do not know if this graph is perfectly visible—is a unique case in Europe: we are the only country in Europe where the postal operator distributes dividends to shareholders by 133 % of the profits. Repeat: 133 % of CTT’s profits are distributed to shareholders. This isn't private management, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a robbery!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u206	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u207	This is decapitalizing a fundamental company for the lives of populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u208	Exactly! It's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u209	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the announcement of the administration of the TTCs, a few days after the parliamentary debate we had here about the future of the company and the postal public service, this announcement, took on virtually provocation, provocation to political power. And we must have a very clear answer not to entertain ourselves to discuss, reflect and study what life is every day demonstrating to the Portuguese but, rather, to the steps we need to take to ensure the defence of the national interest and so that what has been stolen from them can be returned to the Portuguese. And what was stolen from them was the CTT, a company with a service over 500 years old, a public service fundamental to our development. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is now particularly clear is that the only way the Portuguese have recovered the quality postal service is not by recovering a concession contract is by rescuing the company, and by rescuing the company is by reverting it to the control of public management. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u210	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u211	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, although often bring these matters to plenary—
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u212	I don't like any, sir. Trust me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u213	... and that, in itself, should be good, because it allows us to discuss what, in my view, should be discussed, which is the quality of public services, the model of management of public services and to know, as it says and well, what political options are valid—, I confess that it is difficult, it does not seem, it does not seem politically correct, nor is it serious, Mr. Explain why! I will only give you an example: you have received, as I have received, the Soflus Workers Committee. The announcement for January from the Committee of Workers is that the service will get worse, because there are ships that will not be certified, because there will be lack of ships, because there have been huge incidents. Look, he compared the claims of public transport services in paragraph 1. the semester of 2016 or 2017? Mr. Deputies, the complaints have doubled and the companies are public. The gentlemen. Members come to disguise, they continue to try to do demagogy, I confess that good, saying that nothing has to do with this, that the political options were not just and only put in the sphere of the State all the service of transport, and still there is no memory of having had such bad public service and, above all, more expensive—is that the services are more expensive. I could even say: "Well, here is proof that what I say is true! » because, by chance, the only transport service you have kept in the private sphere is the management of the Port Metro. Did you notice in today's news that they say the Port Metro has gained quality, has gained passengers and services are sustainable?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u214	It's a public money baker!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u215	It is then in practice in the specific lives of Portuguese people, in the lives of users and taxpayers, that the problem is not in public or private detention of the service, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u216	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u217	You know, once and for all, that's not the point. If it is good management or bad management, if management is competent or incompetent, that is, yes, the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u218	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u219	I will finish, Mr. President. With regard to TTCs, for example, do you know that in 2006 the degradation of services was at such a level that has not yet been recovered? Do you remember such a company called Puro Prazer that then ended up in that Payshop, which is now so critical? Oh, my God! Do you not know that in the PEC 2010 - 2013 (Stabilisation and Growth Programme) there was already the privatisation of TTCs, when there was no pressure for this to happen?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u220	With whose support?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u221	Do you ignore that the Socialist Party always wanted to privatize the CTTs?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u222	With whose support?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u223	You forget that it is that Socialist Party that you support, that you support, that you support,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u224	You really have to finish, Mr. Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u225	... that he always wanted to privatize the CTTs and that he has made the service degrade without the real evaluation of the service. [[PCP protests.]] Finally, Mr President, is it true that we have to look seriously at the quality of the service provided and not so much because of the detention of the nature of the companies? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u226	To make requests for clarification, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u227	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Bruno Dias for bringing us two subjects of the greatest political relevance in terms of the provision of public services, mail and telecommunications, on the one hand, and public transport on the other. They are both subjects of the greatest relevance, but I will focus only on the first one, because today it is the one who is most interested, for the announcement of the closure of 22 post stations by the country — continent and islands — and also the dismissal of 800 workers, who, together with those of the natural exits, will complete a total of approximately 2000 workers who, by 2020, will no longer serve the TTCs. So the first question on which it is worth reflecting, to which I thanked a reply from the honourable Member, is the following: what is the concrete significance of these closures? In the light of the concession agreement which currently exists with the postal and telecommunications services, the question I put to you, Member of Parliament, is that this closure of stations, thereby reducing the accessibility of thousands of Portuguese and Portuguese to this public service, constitutes or does not constitute a serious breach of the contract for the granting of public and universal postal service, established on the basis of the award of the quality postal service in 2008 and signed between the State and the postal services, public undertaking. This does not seem to constitute a very unusual situation on the part of the shareholder representative, because, as the Gestmin Group's representative said yesterday to a newspaper, there have always been station closures and, therefore, this would be more a normal management measure within a private administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u228	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u229	Therefore, what I would like to ask you, Mr President, to conclude, is even considered to be normal the closure of stations, in the light of the provision of public service, and whether or not it is considered that five centuries of history and the irreplaceable function of State presence at the most remote points of the territory, which has been exercised by the post stations in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u230	You have the floor now, too, to ask for clarification, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u231	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to begin by welcoming the issues that have been raised here, including those of the TTCs. I confess that I was listening to him and thinking whether to interrupt the moment when the Communist Party pulled the ears so violently to the government and also in the following: 'Is this how they talk to each other at meetings that they constantly do? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u232	The honourable Member is very coscuvolious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u233	And finally, I was afraid that after an announcement of these, so violent, I would end up presenting a motion of censure, but that was not the case. In fact, it is, and it is not worth denying, that the commitment to privatize CTTs is in the PEC 2, it is in the PEC 3, it has a origin, it is in the Socialist Party, and he points it out, and well. More: the commitment to privatize the TTCs is in the Memorandum, which someone has negotiated and signed, and that "someone" is there on his left, and every day he talks to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u234	You've signed, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u235	But the most important issue is postal service. Much more important than the service provider is whether or not it is provided and whether or not it complies with the rules for granting the public service. And, Mr President, the question is simple but it is relevant: to whom is it responsible to ensure that the public service is provided? Who is it for to monitor, monitor and, if necessary, change or reverse this model? The answer seems -meobic and is not to the Assembly of the Republic, it is to the Government, to its government! Mr President, I would like to remind you that yesterday, with the support of the PSD, you voted for the coming of the Minister to the House, to explain what the Government is doing on this subject and what you asked ANACOM to do. Has ANACOM already pointed out this issue in a significant way? The CTTs aren't doing it? What will the government do? I would like to remind you — and I would ask for your help, because the PSD can't do it alone — that we ask the government in writing for more than three months ago to give us a reason, a basis for what was happening, particularly for the promised closures of counters, and no one told us anything, but, as the honourable Member, although he talks heavily about the rostrum, he could get this information from the government informally every day, that is, to whom it is responsible to monitor and what the government is doing about this, and give us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u236	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I begin with Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira's question to point out an essential aspect, which he referred to and which I will not deny, because it is true that the privatisation of CTTs has been registered in PEC 2 and PEC 3 and these PECs (Stability and Growth Programme) have only been approved, because the PSD has enabled them, until there is an apology to the country. [[PCP applause.]] The question is very clear and you have been very committed, from the very first moment, to a reality. In fact, it should be noted here that the first wave of the offensive in the closure of post stations and in operations with the real estate of the CTTs — it is good to remember! — it has been something like 12 years ago in the PSD/CDS government with Prime Minister Durão Barroso, with hundreds of closed mail stations opening the way to what is happening today. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not have short memories and see exactly what responsibility each party has had in governance or, in this case, in governance. We can hear someone say, as we heard recently, Mr. Hélder Amaral, that this is all coincidences,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u238	I didn't say they were!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u239	... that these things of the closures of the mail stations, of sending people away and mail appear once or twice a week have nothing to do with privatization nor even with the preparation that has been made over the years for privatization. We can even say that it is an absolute coincidence that this thing of the Stock Exchange opened up yesterday, with the CTTs standing out, with a great rise in the quotations, precisely following the announcement of the closure of more stations and post posts. It's a case to say, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, what with our evil can they well—is it not true? Oh, my God! — provided that dividends are guaranteed, as are guaranteed, by 133 % of profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u240	What about transport? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u241	This is what is happening with the private management to which you have delivered our mails — ours, the country, who have gone and will be back from the country. What we have today is a situation where the concession contract has to be formally changed, because legislation has often been changed to be more permissive and to allow mail to actually reach levels without going into breach. What is happening today is the evidence for the populations that they are affected with more closures and with a postal distribution that has never reached as serious and as negative levels as it is reaching today. And even if someone comes to say that there are those who are in charge of looking at quality indices, that there are those who are in charge of looking at Excel's leaves and that this, then, has to be resolved, we say that the political options and the political action of those who "let the ivory run" are unacceptable, of those who let things get worse and then say that one day everything needs to be solved. This is what the PSD and the CDS have done or provoked with their work and that is what we do not accept, as we will not contribute for the situation to occur again. When we heard about the degradation of public transport and of public and private companies, Mr. Deputies, because you did not speak here of the brutal precariousness of the workers of the Port Metro,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u242	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u243	... of the subcontracting, over-exploration, of the highly negative and unacceptable working conditions that are imposed on those workers, when you see the deferred investment in those companies and in those services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u244	But isn't the government yours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u245	...we remember here, in fact, a very important question: a few months ago...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u246	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u247	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying a few months ago in the budgetary debate, the CFP proposed strengthening funds for the maintenance and operation of the Transtejo, the Soflusa and the Metropolitan, which would have been approved if you had voted in favour. [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u248	You have not voted in favour, you have been plunged and now you have been complaining that the services are not working. You're sorry, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, you have shame in your face! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u249	The last political statement in the afternoon is by Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque of the Social Democratic Party. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by wishing the whole House and all Portuguese a Good Year 2018, on behalf of the PSD parliamentary board. We want a new year in which the state does not fail to protect the supreme value of human life, a year in which students have food in condition in the canteens of schools and in which heating can be linked, a year in which the patients do not have to wait hours without end in emergencies because the government has refused the hiring of doctors and nurses in sufficient number, a year in which the taxes we pay actually serve to provide us with quality services and ensure solidarity to those who need it. We want a year in which the majority respects Parliament and the Portuguese and does not prevent the discovery of the truth, as in the sad case of the General Deposit Box. But looking at the year 2018, now that it begins, we want it to be used also to prepare every year that will follow. We want a country that does not live eternally packed by the environment, which is today positive but will not always be like this. We know that the factors that have ensured economic improvements will not last forever: the effects of the structural reforms carried out in the previous Legislature will be exhausted if they are not in depth; the ECB's support, which ensures that the cost of our debt remains bearable and has stimulated economic growth in our trading partners' countries, is approaching the end; tourism will continue to be a strengthening sector, but we do not want to be a country only of hotels and restaurants and new jobs with minimum wages. We need to bet on private investment, marketable sectors, attracting qualified human resources, whether they are Portuguese or foreign. What we do not believe, we, PSD, is that the behavior of the majority that supports the Government of the country leads to this result. We could talk about so many cases where investors decide to go to other places, discouraged by bureaucracy, the inefficiencies of justice, or the fear of political initiatives that question the factors that determine our current relative success,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u252	... as labour reform or local housing, but the case of Autoeuropa, as it stands, is sufficiently illustrative. The Volkswagen Group factory, which settled in Palmela for more than two decades, changed the face of Setúbal district, increased our exports and gave rise to a cluster of innovative, highly valued companies, many of which have already grown beyond their relationship with Autoeuropa. in a factory with a relationship between administration and workers that has been exemplary for so long, we have recently seen a growing work conflict that can only concern us. Of course, we do not question the right of workers to negotiate working conditions, but only the politicized interference of the unions affected by the CGTP can explain why for the first time in so many years it was not possible to reach agreement without any strikes. Volkswagen's decision to produce its new model in Portugal was the result of an intense negotiating effort by the previous government and a success of our diplomacy, but, as a decisive argument, the climate of social peace and the corresponding high productivity and quality of workers has always been emphasized. Even if an agreement is still reached, and we sincerely hope that it will be so, and quickly, the paradigm change we have witnessed will not fail to be remembered when there is a new model to be produced and other countries with Volkswagen factories will once again compete with Portugal. Let us hope not to receive the bitter news that we have been preserved, but, if that happens, we will not fail to remember who is responsible: to the action of one and to the complicity of others, all of this majority of the left who claims to themselves the merits of what runs well and push to others the responsibility of what is wrong. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal faces immense challenges. The demographic evolution is almost tragic, but it ends with the family quotient that gave some encouragement to families with children.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u253	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u254	The consolidation of public accounts is fragile, but the decisions of this majority increase permanent and rigid expenditure for the future—such as the increase in the number of civil servants and leaders, just to give an example— by financing it increasingly with diffuse taxes and the revenue of which will fall with the next crisis. Private investment is fundamental to creating wealth and employment in the future, but IRC is increasing for larger companies, making the message clear that those who govern us do not like those who create wealth and those who dare to have ambition and grow.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u255	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u256	As long as the next crisis doesn't knock on our door, this cigarette behavior is going through.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u257	Cigarette is what you're doing there in the Arrow!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u258	And once again it is necessary to make difficult, unpopular decisions, this majority will be able to explain to the Portuguese because it wasted every opportunity to prepare us for the future. We are well aware that they will say that the blame lies with the PSD/CDS government (even though this is increasingly ridiculous), that the blame is for Europe (as if we did not have a voice in it), the environment, banks, markets, "extreme" or "exceptional" phenomena of President Trump, for whatever reason we do not have their own choices. We know all this, but we also know that Portugal requires a government and a majority who assume their responsibilities in full. The PSD has always been and will always be a responsible party, but will not assume the burden of choices that are not theirs or the consequences for which it has alerted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u259	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u260	We'll always be responsible. We'll never be complicit. Good year! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u261	Madam Member, the Bureau shall register four Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u262	Mr. President, I will answer two to two.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u263	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, first of all I would like to join and pay back her votes for a Good Year. This is part of your speech with which I agree; generally, the rest do not really deserve my accession. The honourable Member makes a very pessimistic set of forecasts about the country's developments, but, taking into account its recent record on forecasts and what was or was not arithmetically possible with regard to the fulfilment of the budget deficit, I must tell you that the fact of making these forecasts should comfort those who are most pessimistic. It is that if you expect this, I can almost assume that it is more likely to happen otherwise. I also wanted to draw attention to the inherent contradiction in this idea. The honourable Member says that it is increasingly ridiculous to blame the previous government for this or that or the other, but when we talk about reducing the deficit — and now fulfilling the deficit targets — for reducing public debt, reducing interest rates and spreading interest towards other countries, when we talk about employment growth and all these other positive economic results, and it seems that it will no longer be very ridiculous that, after all, this government has nothing to do with this. Economic policy, all of a sudden, has nothing to do with this, and everything is, it is noted — and this will not be ridiculous then — the result of these mythical structural reforms coming from the previous government. Mrs Deputy, this argument, for those who said that with these measures, these results would be arithmetically impossible, would not be logical and could not catch. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u265	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u266	Mr President, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, I begin by wishing you a Good Year on the part of the CDS, and I leave you two questions. He spoke about Autoeuropa and what is happening in Autoeuropa and, in fact, we have seen a government that is systematically much more concerned about maintaining itself than about defending what is best for Portugal. Now, this has impacts on the most diverse and varied sites and what happens in Autoeuropa, and the risk that the country is running there, it also has a lot to do with this. The question that was left to you was whether the honourable Member does not think that the way in which the current government has dealt with social consultation, the little care and the little importance it has given to the ability to reach an agreement there, does it not seem worrying, especially with regard to our ability to generate employment and investment in the future? Does it not seem to you that the maintenance of labour reforms made by the previous Government is essential in this capacity to generate jobs in the future?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u268	The truth is that the parties that currently constitute the majority have criticized labour reforms very much and said that they would be unable to generate jobs, but the fact is that since this job reform Portugal has done so is, above all, generating jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u269	And the wages don't matter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u270	It is therefore important that the future be not jeopardized and that this work reform be maintained. Secondly, I would like to ask you what kind of effect this attitude of the Government can have, from the point of view of the economic, medium and long-term effect. I mentioned in my speech, for example, the increase in the tax on gas oil and on gasoline under all pretexts—it has already increased because the price of oil had fallen, it has already increased because the price of oil had risen, now it seems that it will increase because of inflation. Finally, all the pretexts are good and there is always a pretext to create a new rate, it is enough that there is an economic activity to succeed that soon is invented or a different rate or disruption. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u271	In reply, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u272	Mr President, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, you will eventually notice that I did not make any provision in my speech. I really like sending it by email if you just didn't hear it with enough attention. [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] In any case, Mr President, what I have done has been alerts and it is usually said that anyone alerts his friend is.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u273	It's a mix of political declaration with friendship!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u274	What we see with great concern is that, in fact, the country is being managed on the basis of interests that are not those of the Portuguese today and, much less, those of the Portuguese of tomorrow. We have a situation in which we are not taking advantage of fundamental opportunities to ensure the consistency of our future, to ensure that we do not have to lose what we have lost in the past again and that, however, we have regained a great deal of effort from all Portuguese and a very hard adjustment programme, because of the irresponsibility of those who make decisions when the situation is favorable and advises that reforms be made now. [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] It is that the pain of structural reforms is as much less favourable as the economic conditions are when they are implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u275	It's the cilician!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u276	I would like to say, Mr President, if you have any problem with accepting my interpretation of structural reforms, that there is a study by the European Commission, from the beginning of last year, that not only identifies as quantifying the positive future effect of structural reforms which have been implemented in our country. One final note, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade : given that you were Secretary of State for Tax Affairs and will be sure to keep an account, I invite you to calculate the deficit of 2016 before the extraordinary measures that you announced after my statement,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u277	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u278	...and demonstrating arithmetically that the result was also achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u279	The 0, 2 were in the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u280	I guarantee that it would not be achieved if it were not the measures that you, in particular, as State Secretary for Tax Affairs, proposed and approved,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u282	... such as the revenue of tax forgiveness, the revaluation of companies' assets and all the extraordinary measures that were introduced later and without which it was not arithmetically possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u283	You know! You know him well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u284	It's just making the count. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u285	The accounts were made!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u286	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, it is true that we are often too concerned about the maintenance of power, either of the Government or of the majority that supports it, and that everything is subordinated to this objective, including the fact that we hear here extraordinary criticisms of the Left Block and the PCP to the government's work as if they had not already approved three budgets of this majority and therefore were not as responsible for them as those who presented them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u287	I would also like to say that, in fact, the question of social consultation is very worrisome and the current behaviour reveals even a disrespect for the foundations of our democracy, which also sit in an active social consultation, in which decisions are weighted with the various partners to safeguard the interests of all Portuguese workers, Portuguese workers and also Portuguese entrepreneurs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u288	You need to do a favor to the patronate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u289	... also from companies that create wealth and employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u290	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u291	I will finish, Mr. President. What is essential is that there is no reversal of the measures that have contributed most to the success of our country today. Labour reform is one of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u292	Easy layoffs!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u293	What happened, in fact, was that the job became more robust,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u294	It's precarious! The definition is precarious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u295	... accompanying economic recovery, but labour reform is unanimously recognized by all external observers which is a determining factor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u296	That beautiful world you're defending!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u297	We are very concerned that the successive pressure to the elections may lead to a reversal of this measure. Let us hope that this will not happen so that what was not forecast, but before that, there are no concerns in fact that it will turn into concrete forecasts. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u298	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u299	Mr President, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, after having heard her speech I can only record and recall her performance as a member of the PSD Government and the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u300	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u301	... and to recall the responsibilities of the PSD and the CDS with regard to the attack and withdrawal of workers' rights. He spoke here about education, health, the Labour Code and the changes they introduced, which, in fact, what they brought to the workers was exploitation, inequality, impoverishment and degradation of their living conditions. We note that in his speech he did not have a single word on the return of rights and incomes, which has now allowed the PSD to reject the old and worn-out speech on the development of the economy and job creation. It is, in fact, the defence, the return and the conquest of rights and income that enables economic development and the creation of jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u302	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u303	I also record your intervention — in fact, it has been a mark that the PSD has brought in recent years — fear and threat. They want to frighten the workers, the population, the Portuguese people. First came the Devil there and now, in relation to Autoeuropa, brings again the discourse of the threat, the threat of relocation, the threat of job losses. But is this a hidden will on the part of the PSD?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u304	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u305	It is not surprising that when a new negotiation between workers and administration is expected — and it is said that workers have always been available for these negotiations — the PSD brings the question of Autoeuropa back to the Assembly of the Republic. But what do you mean? Do you intend to condition this negotiation? [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Does it intend to condition the negotiation in such a way that workers' rights are withdrawn? Mrs. Member, for the CFP...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u306	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u307	I will finish, Mr. President. For the CFP, the issues related to the increase in production must be accompanied by the defence of workers' rights. To guarantee working conditions, living conditions, health, the link between professional and family life, the value of their wages, all this, in our perspective, is possible with the increase of production. It is unfortunate that the PSD does not have the same perspective, because all that it did in the time of its government was cut in wages, it was removed rights and the result was seen: recession.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u308	Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u309	Indeed, there has been no development in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u310	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u311	Mr. President, I'm really going to finish. This struggle by workers in the defence of their working conditions and their rights is fair. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u312	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u313	Mr President, I am glad to wish everyone a good year. May 2018 be a year in which the minimum wage increases, where taxes fall, where there are no millions invested to save banks while people starve, when unemployment goes down, and it is also a year when companies such as CTTs are not privatized to feed the Goldman Sachs or Deutsche Bank. But the best guarantee we have to ensure this year that I have just described is that it is given to us by the fact that Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque is no longer Minister of Finance. This is the best guarantee we have that this year will be better for Portuguese and Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u314	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u315	The honourable Member came here, in fact, as did the CDS, to compile a set of newspaper clippings with news about what was not wrong to convince people that they are living today worse than they were at the time when the honourable Member was Minister of Finance. The worst thing is that this narrative does not collide with reality, it does not collide with wages, with pensions, with what has improved in people's concrete lives, with the economy, with the decrease in unemployment, the worst is that it instrumentalizes the struggle and the rights of workers and, for pure union prejudice, comes to instrumentalize the struggle of the workers of Autoeuropa for their rights to make this narrative that the Devil comes there. It is unacceptable that the PSD, as the CDS has already done before, moved by union anger, will try to develop a theory that does not correspond to reality, because what is happening in Autoeuropa, in fact, is that the administration refuses to negotiate with the workers what is necessary to establish a new assembly line for the production of T-Roc at the Palmela factory. What do I ask, Mrs Deputies, is: what should be the responsible attitude of a government? Mrs Deputy was Minister for Finance. You'll be able to tell me how many million is that the Portuguese government...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u316	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u317	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Deputies, how many million have the Portuguese Government invested in training support, public subsidies or tax incentives over the years? How many million have the taxpayers not already put in the Autoeuropa factory? Can you also tell me whether, after these million invested, the responsibility of the Government of this country is to support the administration of the factory to run the workers' rights or to demand respect for Autoeuropa for the conditions that this country has always given it to work here and for its workers and for the negotiation that exists within the factory? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u318	In reply, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u319	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, you systematically refer to the attacks we would have made...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u320	What did they do?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u321	...and the withdrawal of workers' rights. Madam Member, the first right of workers, the one most precious, is the right to work and to a wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u322	To a salary with rights!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u323	That means, Mrs Deputy, also respecting the employer, respecting the companies that create jobs and the conditions for paying wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u324	Respect is beautiful!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u325	The way you're instrumentalizing, and you're the ones that are instrumentalizing...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u326	Where I've heard this!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u327	in making the intervention I did, I have no intention of conditioning or instrumentalizing the matter, until, in the case of Mrs Deputy, I have not noticed but Mrs Joana Mortágua drew attention, I am no longer a minister! Therefore, not being my minister and not supporting this government, it could hardly condition whatever it is in a negotiation that is happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u328	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u329	The honourable Member has to pay attention to who is in fact conditioning what is happening in Autoeuropa. [[PCP protests.]] I can assure you that it is not this corridor to the right but, yes, this corridor to the left that this conditioning is being made. [[PSD applause.]] The honourable Member also says that we have brought inequality and poverty. Mrs. Member, we run a broken country. [[PCP protests.]] Poverty results from bankruptcy and failure we did not cause it but, yes, the previous government of the Socialist Party. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] But as far as inequality is concerned, Mrs Deputies, read and see all the information that exists about the evolution of inequality in Portugal during the years of the adjustment period.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u330	It's just a matter of studying! [[Protests by PCP Members Bruno Dias and Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u331	You will verify that all, without exception, Portuguese or foreign, reveal that inequality has decreased,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u332	They cut the wages and they're still proud of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u333	... precisely because we have had the concern, from the very first moment, to protect those who are weaker and who have more difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u334	All right! [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u335	Inequality in Portugal has decreased during the adjustment programme and has also recently been highlighted as an example among the various countries that have had adjustment programmes, and has managed to contain this effect which often cannot be adjusted. [[PCP protests.]] Mrs.Jona Mortagua, we do not have a narrative of the coming of the Devil, but, unlike the Block of the Left, we know what it costs to rule in these circumstances, we know that it is difficult to ask for sacrifices to the Portuguese and how the Portuguese felt them on the skin. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] That is why we are very concerned that the path that is being taken does not ensure that this does not happen again. We would very much like it to ensure that this does not happen again. I can assure you, Madam Member, that it is not pleasant to be a member of a government to implement an adjustment programme. It's not! Although you make a lot of use of the argument, to which you fail, do not lead me to harm, intelligence, that we like to harm people or that we have some ideological prejudice against the Portuguese, I must say that this is a finished nonsense. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] What I am saying, Mrs Deputies, is that we do not have any kind of hatred for trade unions, and that we want both parties to be respected: the part of the workers and the part of the companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u336	How many million? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u337	We do not understand how it is that in a company that has almost 30 years of existence, which has always managed to solve its problems without strikes—and you know well that the workers' commission was led by a person from the Left Block—...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u338	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u339	... during that time, there have never been such conflicts and now there are. Will that be coincidence? We do not believe that it is, Mrs Deputies, and we are concerned, yes, what can happen and what this effect can bring to other companies that are already here or who want to be. When the honourable Member speaks of how many millions the Portuguese Government has already invested in that factory, Mrs Deputy, we are soon hearing her claim that it is necessary to nationalise Autoeuropa. It is necessary to be careful with such statements. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u340	Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the political statements, moving to point three of our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment of petition No 264 / XIII ( 2. a ) — They request the adoption of measures to defend the river Tejo, in particular the closure of the Nuclear Central of Almaraz ( Paulo Fernando da Graça Constantino et al.) and of draft resolutions 738 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government allow the use of analytical results obtained with spot samples in the control of polluting discharges ( CDS-PP ), 1190 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures for the depollution of the Tejo River and the closure of the Almaraz Nuclear Central ( BE ), 1191 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt surveillance and environmental action measures to mitigate the harmful effects of pollution sources in the river Tejo ( PAN ), 1204 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the defense and integrated protection of the Tejo river basin ( Os Verdes), 1207 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to defend the river basin Tejo ( PCP ) and 1216 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt the measures recommended in the follow-up report on pollution in the Tejo River, promote monitoring of the river course and water quality, promote the review of the Albufeira Convention and take a position on the Almaraz Nuclear Central ( PSD ). You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the more than 4600 petitioners who have subscribed to the petition, of which the first subscriber and some of the elements of the proTEJO movement are present, and who ask the Assembly of the Republic to legislate, to recommend actions to the Government and to act in European instances in five areas, in order to solve the growing problem of pollution of the Tejo River and its tributaries. The CDS accompanies the concerns expressed by the petitioners and, in fact, pollution in the Tejo River has been a very present issue in this House, either in this House or in 11. the Commission, which has been monitoring environmental matters, in particular since 2015 with the worsening of the river situation. I recall that at the beginning of 2016, 11. the Commission has made a working visit to the river Tejo, from the international Tejo to the foz, having indeed been proposed by the CDS and approved unanimously by all parliamentary groups. The Government then constituted the Tejo River Pollution Monitoring Commission, which produced a report in November 2016 with a diagnosis and a set of recommendations. It is precisely on one of these recommendations that the CDS presents today this project that, we believe, can in a great deal contribute to a faster and more effective action by the authorities. In fact, in addition to the supervision, which the Government guarantees has strengthened but whose results, unfortunately, are not what we all wanted, the Commission has identified conditionalities which make it difficult to obtain proof. One of these conditions is the fact that the inspection authorities have to give prior notice of an inspection, which, as mentioned above, is the report of the Monitoring Committee, and I quote, « may condition the characteristics of the effluent rejected during that period and compromise the representativeness of the sample ». The Commission therefore considers it necessary to amend the legislation in force in such a way that, and I quote again, « allow the use of on-the-spot results(...) when they repeatedly exceed the emission limit values established ». The CDS believes that economic activity is essential for the creation of employment and the dynamisation of territories, but it must respect the environment and cannot question the sustainability of natural resources, which is obviously shared by the petitioners in the text of the petition before us. Therefore, the CDS recommends that the Government legislate to comply with the recommendation of the Tejo River Pollution Follow-up Commission of November 2016 to enable the use of analytical results obtained with spot samples when they repeatedly exceed the emission limit values established. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u342	Mr Matias has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the promoters and the more than 4600 subscribers of this petition launched by proTEJO, whose representatives are in the galleries. We welcome its persistence in giving voice to the concerns and aspirations of the populations related to the Tejo River and its insistence on reporting the deep environmental degradation that reaches its course and its watershed. The river flow has recorded historical minimums as a result not only of climate change but also of the lack of adequate management instruments, even more so in this period of extreme climate phenomena. The minimum weekly and quarterly flows laid down in the Additional Protocol to the Albufeira Convention and which flow from Spain are insignificant and allow a wide variation of the flows during the days, weeks and quarters. As it is of public knowledge, and often observable even to the naked eye, the quality of the Tejo river water represents a serious problem for our country. Water contamination reduces its availability, destroys flora and fauna, endangers the entire ecosystem and human activities, including water supply for agriculture and human consumption. The existence of several pulp and/or paper pulp industries, livestock farms or agricultural practices cannot be synonymous with pollution. The navigability of the river by small boats and its ecological flow have been called into question by artificial physical barriers, some put in place by companies. The Central Nuclear of Almaraz, located on the banks of Uncle Tejo, still in the Spanish state, but only a hundred kilometers from our border, is the closest nuclear power station in Portugal. The two nuclear reactors came into operation in 1981 and 1983, being the oldest in the Spanish State, which raises justified concerns, aggravated by subsequent incidents recorded. The Left Block Parliamentary Group has already put forward a number of proposals for the Government to insist on the government of the neighbouring country towards the closure of Central. however, it not only continues to operate as procedures have been carried out for the expansion of its useful life. We therefore fully welcome the concerns expressed by the petitioners. from there we will present a draft resolution assuming its proposals. In fact, measures are required to comply with the Water Framework Directive to ensure a good ecological state of the waters of the Tejo River. A system of ecological, daily, weekly and monthly flows should be established in a scientific way, reflected in the Plans of the Tejo Hydrographic Basin and the Albufeira Convention and incorporating exceptional regimes, in particular for drought cases. The natural river system and its environment must be restored, including the replacement of river connectivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u344	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u345	I shall conclude, Mr President, a rigorous and consistent action is required to control the growing and continuous pollution that increasingly destroys the river and its tributaries. Finally, it should continue the demand with the Spanish Government for the closure of the nuclear power plant in Almaraz. The Left Block is with the environmentalists, the autarchs and the populations in this struggle for the recovery of our Tejo River and for the end of the nuclear threat of Almaraz. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u346	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u347	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Alberto Caeiro had already said that « by Tejo he goes to the World» and that « Who is at his side is only at his side». Ladies and gentlemen. Members are at the foot of the Tejo River and the thousands of signatories of this petition that we must all be. The NAP is associated with a legislative initiative aimed at strengthening the installation of more radiological monitoring stations in international rivers. We also advocate that the Radiological Safety and Protection Laboratory should be provided with adequate means so that it can carry out, in good time, environmental radiological monitoring programmes. We also believe that greater transparency and public scrutiny on information on State sites relating to water resources is essential, often unavailable or out of date. We also call attention to the conclusion of the Radiological Emergency Plan for Transboundary Nuclear Accidents this year. Finally, and because this debate takes place at the blight of a citizen initiative around the defense of the Tejo, the NAP wants to leave a word of recognition and gratitude to citizen Arlindo Consolado Marques, who has courageously denounced the grave environmental crimes that occur in the river Tejo. No pollution industry will silence us. no PAN, we are Arlindo Consolado Marques. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u348	The following intervention will be given by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens. It has 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u349	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin this intervention precisely by welcoming the subscribers of petition No 264 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) which bring to the Assembly of the Republic the need to redebricate the matter of pollution of the river Tejo. It is a matter to which the Greens have given great importance not only in their parliamentary work but also in their party activity, because we consider that we are talking about a central resource in the country in the most varied aspects: ecological, social and economic. It would be enough to say that the river basin of the Tejo covers about 80 500 km2, of which more than 24 500 km2 in Portugal, corresponding to more than 28 % of the mainland territory and reaching 102 municipalities. in this sense, the Greens have already taken a number of parliamentary initiatives, the last of which was to call the Minister of the Environment to the Commission, in order to provide us with updated information on the reason why they are so recurrent pollution phenomena in the river Tejo. The fact is that we had the Minister's word that the monitoring and inspection actions had been strengthened, that they were equipped with more means to act and, therefore, the normal logic would be that these pollution phenomena would deteriorate. However, that is not what we have witnessed. Therefore, precisely on the occasion of this petition, the Greens decided to present a draft resolution containing various aspects of action. From that point of view, I would urge the Government not to facilitate the impunity of the polluters of the river Tejo, who are perfectly identified — from cellulose to agriculture, among others — and to promote the strengthening of supervision and inspection actions. On the other hand, encourage investment in the construction and remodelling of urban and industrial ETARs in order to ensure the reduction of pollution rates. We know that the malfunction or even the absence of ETAR are a cause mentioned in the Report of the Committee on Monitoring on Pollution in the Tejo River. On the other hand, to fight for an ecological flow in the Tejo River and to measure and control are done daily. in this sense, we recall the commitment that the Greens have made to lead the Government to review the Albufeira Convention. in this draft resolution we also fight once again for the Portuguese Government to demand and assume, in a clear way, the position of closing the nuclear power plant in Almaraz, a perfectly obsolete nuclear power plant. Finally, the Greens recommend ensuring immediate communication to populations, in an absolutely transparent way, of environmental-relevant occurrences and ensuring the systematic provision of updated data on the quality of the Tejo waters, which has failed repeatedly. When we look at the National Water Resources Information System, we find that the data there is out of date.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u350	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u351	Mr President, the proposals which the Greens bring to Parliament today are, in essence, to sum up — and I will even finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u352	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: because of its size and characteristics, the Tejo River is of enormous importance in our country in the environmental, economic, social and cultural fields, which affects about 3 million inhabitants. along the extensive territory that runs is subject to various pressures, resulting from the various existing infrastructures and activities that are carried out nearby, which condition the quality of the water masses. The populations, associations and authorities have alerted to the numerous problems in the Tejo River — indeed, the petition we are discussing today and whose subscribers we welcome is the example of this — and have, in particular, called attention to the absence of ecological flows, to pollution, to the obstacles to river connectivity, the erosion of the margins, the absorption, the problems that limit and, in some cases, prevent the development of traditional economic activities, the enjoyment of the Tejo at the environmental, cultural, sporting and leisure level, important for the communities living near the river that do not allow to take full advantage of the local development potential that the Tejo provides. There are reports and reports of the populations that clearly show the bad conditions in which the river Tejo is located : bad smells, brown water or black water, existence of foam, dead fish, fear of eating fish from the river Tejo, reduction of fish activity, insufficient causation, among other problems detected. The absence of ecological flows that guarantee ecosystems and biodiversity is, of course, the result of insufficient volumes of water sent by Spain, but also of the management made by the concessionaires of the Tejo River hydroelectric dams. This reality also has a consequence in the concentration of pollutants. Since the flow is not enough, the dispersion of pollution is also lower. The sources of pollution resulting from insufficient treatment of waste water, industrial activity, pig husbandry and agricultural activity lead to a reduction in the quality of the Tejo river water masses, resulting in the reduction of the level of oxygen and water to the surface, the eutrophication of the waters, which leads to the death of fish in the river. The dams of Fratel and Belver, the Abrantes cliff, the crossing of the Pego Hydroelectric Central constitute, inter alia, barriers to river connectivity. It is found that the passage of fish is not adequately ensured, nor is there any form of passage of vessels. The irregularity of the Tejo tails, in particular due to the heavy discharges of the dams, leads to erosion of the margins visible in the so-called « rhombs », especially in the areas of Constance, Chamusca and Golegã. There is also the silencing of the river in the ritejan plain and in the estuary, which introduces major limitations to the navigationability and inoperability of port structures, critically affecting economic activities, as well as aquatic ecosystems, and leads to the degradation of water quality. The Report of the Committee on Monitoring on Pollution in the Tejo River, created in January 2016, advances with a set of proposals and recommendations, including the establishment of the electronic information management platform on the prevention and control of pollution in the Tejo River, the implementation of an annual integrated action plan for monitoring and inspection, the monitoring plan for the flow of water masses, among other aspects. However, the great gap in this report is the means which must be mobilized to ensure compliance with these recommendations. On that, there is no reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u354	You have to finish, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u355	I will finish, Mr. President. What the CFP proposes in the draft resolution submitted today is that it adopt a set of effective measures to ensure the protection of the Tejo river basin, ensuring the quantity and quality of water, providing the development of traditional economic activities, public health, the preservation of ecosystems and biodiversity and the enjoyment of the river banks of the Tejo at the cultural, sporting and leisure level and allowing the exploitation of all the development potential that the river Tejo provides. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u356	The following statement is addressed to Mr Manuel Frexes of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me first congratulate the petitioners, who have brought to Parliament a very important issue, which is the pollution of the river Tejo. The importance of the Tejo River in both Spain and Portugal is known for its decisive role in economic, social and environmental terms. For this reason, the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing elected the defense, preservation and valorization of the Tejo River as the central theme of its operation. Despite the relevance given to this important river and despite some improvements in water quality in recent years, various pollution phenomena, some of which have extreme impact, such as dark waters, bad smell, foam cover and sometimes fish mortality continue to persist. This situation, absolutely unacceptable, requires everyone, but above all the government, more and better, both inside and outside our borders. Firstly, it is intended that the Government will implement rapidly the measures called for in the Report of the Committee on Monitoring on Pollution in the Tejo River, commissioned by the Government itself over a year ago and whose most important measures have not yet come out of the paper. Secondly, it increasingly bets on the prevention and deterrence of these illegal practices, investing in new technologies for monitoring and permanent monitoring of the Tejo River. Thirdly, which strengthens the budgetary allocations of the various government bodies in order to ensure the necessary means for the full performance of their missions. Finally, to stimulate investment, public and private, by accelerating the support mechanisms provided for in the 2020 Programme, in order to complete important ongoing and other works being approved, to complete the domestic effluent treatment networks and contribute to the modernization of industrial equipment, to further reconcile economic activities with the environmental preservation of the Tejo River. The Tejo is an Iberian river. As such it is also shared by Spain. in this field, it is recommended to the Government of Portugal to do more and more differently: in the follow-up with the Spanish authorities of the pollution phenomena in the Tejo River, when it enters national territory; to place on the bilateral discussion agenda the transvase policy carried out by Spain, particularly the transfer of water from the Tejo River basin to other river basins further south; to promote a genuine review of the Albueira Convention, in the area of the caudais to be ensured by Spain, introducing the requirement of daily flows; and, finally, that the Government of Portugal assume a firm and resolute position, in the sense of doing everything to promote the closure of the Nuclear Central of Almaraz, it is unequivocally opposed, already in 2018, when it is consulted, to extend the deadline for its operation, since it is obsolete and has far exceeded the time of validity for its operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u358	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u359	on these matters, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer room for hesitation or hesitant attitudes. It is, yes, time of firmness and zero tolerance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u360	The last intervention on this point on today's agenda is Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, let us focus on a petition — and the Socialist Party welcomes the signatories — and six draft resolutions that aim at environmental problems, which have merited continued attention by the Socialist Party. We have already discussed, at various times — at this plenary session, in the Committee on the Environment and, even throughout the Tejo River — the pollution to which it is subject at its margins; the compliance and non-compliance with the ecological flows stipulated in the Albufeira Convention and the need for its review; the danger of the existence of the Almaraz Nuclear Central, in addition to the foreseeable extension of its life period and the use of water for cooling reactors which subsequently enters the Tejo River circuit. It is not due to lack of debate in the Assembly of the Republic, in particular in the Committee on the Environment, or the inaction of the current government that the Tejo River is in trouble. in this sense, the various initiatives currently under discussion concerning the river Tejo, the Convention of Albufeira and the closure of the Nuclear Central of Almaraz are not new. We value the debate, we understand the proposals that are also included in the respective policy agendas of the proposers, but we prioritize the evaluation of the measures that have been defended by the government, companies, environmental associations and citizens' movements. at the last hearing of the Minister of the Environment on 21 December, 14 days ago, referring to the Report of the Committee on Monitoring on Pollution in the Tejo River, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group stressed the need for progress in terms of water quality in this region, around the water treatment and sanitation infrastructures of urban and industrial waste water, whose assessment of the state of the water masses is lower than 'Good'in the classification of the Water Framework Directive ( DQA ). The Minister of the Environment has already mentioned in this House some of the measures taken to contain the problems mentioned, which I cannot list for lack of time. It will not be appreciable proposals or punctual situations that will guarantee us an effective public policy, ensuring the safeguard of the river Tejo. We therefore need to ensure that the recommendations of the Tejo River Pollution Monitoring Committee are implemented, complied with and monitored and that issues relating to possible radiological contamination from the Almaraz Nuclear Central are included in these. in this sense, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group recommends more active attention to the government, taking into account that Mariano Rajoy, in recent days, has announced that she wants to accelerate the National Water Plan and that Spain may come to authorize new transvazes, putting once again the ecological flows of the river Tejo. Finally, it should be noted that the issue of the Almaraz Nuclear Central and the possible extension of the operation of this structure also requires diplomatic intervention by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, once again resorting to European bodies, involving and responsible the European Commission for a shared follow-up to the agreement concluded and ensuring the safeguarding of Portugal's rights and the tranquillity of the Portuguese. The Portuguese can count on the current government and the Socialist Party for integrated and global responses to the Tejo River. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u362	Having concluded the joint discussion of petition No 264 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolutions 738 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), 1190 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) ( BE ), 1191 / XIII ( 3. a ) ( PAN ), 1204 / XIII ( 3. a ) ( The Greens ), 1207 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1216 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PSD ), we will begin the assessment of petition No 290 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request legislative amendments, in particular Law No 69 / 2014 of 29 August 2014 which criminalized the ill-treatment of pet animals ( Ana Raquel de Oliveira Ramos de Matos, and others) together with draft resolutions 1217 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to disseminate and facilitate the application of animal welfare legislation ( BE) and 1219 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a working group to develop a plan to prevent and deal with the cases of Noé's syndrome, better known as « accumulation of animals » ( PAN) and generally Bill No. 724 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure with regard to the crime of ill-treatment of animals and related articles ( PAN ). To present draft resolution No 1217 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and to begin the debate, it has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u363	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners who again alert us to the scourge of ill-treatment of animals. Law No. 69 / 2014 of 29 August, registered these same ill-treatments to pets as a crime. It was an extremely important step forward in the conception of treatment for animals in Portugal. Where there was no crime or condemnation before when pets were deliberately abused, there was now a framework that assumes that such ill-treatment is not a desirable behaviour in society. On the contrary, it is assumed that it is a condemnable behaviour and it is currently—and well! — criminalized. In 2016, we again discussed amendments to the Civil Code that provide for the legal status of animals and, in addition, there was a new discussion and proposals, presented by the Block of the Left, on the scope of the law of 2014, from ill-treatment to animals. Nothing more logical: this law has proved important, but insufficient in the protection of integrity and in the dissuasive effect of inflicting harm and suffering on pets as well as other animals. Any animal, irrespective of its destination, should not be subject to conditions of confinement or treatment which do not take into account the legal status that we so well define here, corresponding to the reading of science and society and to which, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must congratulate ourselves on taking the form of long-term agreement for us too. We therefore assume with these initiatives that violence against animals is not justified in Portugal. The social communication has also publicly denounced inappropriate animal maintenance situations without prompt investigation and correct judgment, with a view to the welfare of the animal. The general interpretation of legislation still ignores the need to have as a basis animal welfare and rights, as well as the evolution that we have entered into by Law No 8 / 2017 — and this awareness is urgent. in this sense, we present a draft resolution that recommends that the Government disclose the laws already existing and clarify the meaning of the legislator to the various actors in its application. There can be no error in the interpretation of the legal status of animals and, as such, of what is an act of ill-treatment of animals. It also recommends our draft resolution that, together with the municipalities, awareness-raising campaigns be carried out for animal welfare and rights practices, as well as facilitating procedures for dematerialization of processes, such as reporting situations of ill-treatment and non-licensing of pets. Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament, the laws we approve here and which include animal rights cannot be regarded as less law for regulating animals and must be known and applied as any other law we adopt here. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u364	To present Bill No. 724 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and draft resolution No 1219 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a) you now give the floor to Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by thanking the petitioners for their important initiative, but also by making it clear to the honourable Members that this is a matter that is not yet settled and that much needs to be done in legislative matters. in the first legislative session, the NAP presented a draft law with a view to amending the Criminal Code, strengthening the legal protection of all animals, which was rejected. There was, however, an evolution. We receive the opinions of the Advocates' Order, the Attorney General's Office of the Republic and the Supreme Council of Justice, and they were all taken into account in the drafting of the project we are now presenting. According to them, it is incoherent, in fact, to criminalize ill-treatment against animals and not against others. More: the dignity of non-human animals, including their right to life and to physical, emotional and behavioral integrity, is an undeniable fact that has been recognized, across society, which is also supported by those opinions. Moreover, today, our legislation no longer recognizes animals as things, being, yes, living beings endowed with sensitivity and object of legal protection because of their nature and, therefore, we bring to debate a proposal where : the existing legal protection for pets is extended to all vertebrate sensitive animals; if all animals are determined to be free from hunger and thirst, from pain, wounds or diseases, from fear and distress, and may express their natural behavior; if they criminalize the act of killing an animal out of legal proceedings, be preceded or not of ill-treatment; if they criminalize the act of abandoning an animal, regardless of the life of this risk or not; if they are obliged by the practice of the crime of abuse to attend specific violence prevention programmes; and it is determined that the faithful depositary should be the State or zoophilis associations and not, never, the aggressor, as now happens. Finally, it is also important to create a working group consisting of animal and human health professionals, with a view to preventing and treating cases of Noé's syndrome or accumulation of animals. This is a mental health problem and, therefore, the well-being of the person himself. It is also a problem of ill-treatment of animals and ultimately also poses a risk to public health. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these measures have the possibility to significantly improve and protect the lives of animals and reflect a more evolved society, with respect to all beings, regardless of their differences. It's time to give body to real animal protection. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u366	You have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u367	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I was just beginning to welcome the petitioners for detailed and detailed work with which they listed many of the problems that the current legislation — whether new legislation or the previous law still in force — still presents in terms of protection and animal welfare. From issues relating to the transport and breeding of animals, which have not been the subject of such a recent intervention or, in particular, matters which, in the meantime, have been the subject of legislative amendment, with the approval of the new animal buying and selling regime, there is still much work to be done. But one of the fundamental aspects which, in particular, is emphasized by the petitioners, concerns the penalty framework — whether it is the counter-ordering framework or the criminal framework — in which, already in the past, the PS Parliamentary Group has stressed that it is not yet satisfied with the framework it is exercising, since it still presents many interpretative difficulties, many difficulties for operators to effectively strengthen criminal protection also with regard to animal welfare. And if, in the past, it has not yet been possible to reach a majority in order to amend the law—and in this legislature the PS Parliamentary Group has already sought to do so—it is true that the NAP recovers many of these elements, in particular with regard to the Code of Criminal Procedure, so we hope that there will be a second opportunity for the Assembly to put on the right track the transformative legislative amendment which it made in 2015. however, in addition to this initiative—and we do not follow all aspects, particularly those relating to the substantive criminal directive, but we can have availability for, in the specialty, to work on them—, in relation to the other two projects, brought to debate by the Left Block and the PAN, we would also like to emphasise our favourable vote in the sense that they also present relevant additional elements. with regard to the project of the Left Block, because it is indeed essential to strengthen the work that some institutions have already done — the PSP and the GNR have devoted much work to training their agents and their officers and also to trying to raise awareness among the authorities to look at the legislation on ill-treatment and on animal welfare in other ways. And also the NAP initiative, concerning a particular problem that tells many family aggregates a lot, because it not only reports problems of animals that are in the absence of conditions, but also often reveals problems that people who own them translate through them. It therefore seems to us that we will be able to take positive steps through the adoption of these two draft resolutions, once again underlining our expectation that we will, in the current parliamentary framework, still strengthen what, in the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the Criminal Code, does not yet correspond to a good law and to a law capable of responding to all problems. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u368	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos spoke on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u369	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Concerns about animal welfare, animal protection or respect for animals are increasingly present in the public discussion. Healthy and harmonious coexistence between human beings and other animals is something we fight for. The debate we hold today in the Assembly of the Republic, following the scheduling of the petition on the improvement and greater scope of the law criminalizing ill-treatment of animals, allows, once again, to deepen the reflection on these issues. The reality has been confirming the success of the CFP's position as regards the priority to be given to the aim of avoiding the occurrence of ill-treatment of animals and the abandonment of animals, rather than intervening only later, after these situations occur and in a purely punitive and repressive perspective. Obviously, we consider situations of ill-treatment or abandonment to be condemned, and they must be punished. But what really makes it possible to take a qualitative leap and evolve socially, culturally and environmentally in terms of respect for animals is the adoption of preventive measures, sensitization and deterrence that avoid situations of ill-treatment and abandonment of animals. To insist on the option of criminalization and aggravating penalties, as proposed by the NAP, is to repeat the error. The NAP's proposal is based on retrograde and secure conception, that it is with the creation of crimes or the aggravating of prison sentences that solve social problems. This concept is not only retrograde and secure, but also incorrect, as evidenced by the creation of the crime of ill-treatment and abandonment of animals. As the CFP underlined at the time, the legal creation of the crime did not solve the problem, and it will not solve it. During the discussion of the current law, we stated that the choice for criminalization was not adequate or effective, and we said that opt for the application of prison sentences in cases of ill-treatment or abandonment of pets, without any means of preventing such situations, is disproportionate and contributes to creating wrong expectations regarding the possibility of solving this problem. After three years, we found that there was no reduction, nor were there any situations of ill-treatment or abandonment of animals. Mistreatment and abandonment of animals are not a problem that is solved by the intervention of police and courts, much less acting after the ill-treatment happens, rather than preventing them from happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u370	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u371	The NAP makes the option easy, but wrong, to increase criminal repression and worsen prison sentences. The CFP does not follow this option. For the CFP, effective intervention to combat ill-treatment and abandonment of animals should focus on education and pedagogy and training to promote respect for animals, especially among children and young people. Investment and strengthening of means to implement these measures, accompanied by strengthening of means, in particular health and inspection, of the State in order to ensure animal welfare. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u372	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u373	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I begin by greeting the honourable Members. Petitioners, at least for future memory, and to say that this matter of the ill-treatments that bring us today is a question that, fortunately, begins to mobilize more and more Portuguese society and for which Portuguese society is increasingly aware—and still well. The CDS is no exception in this matter and not only condemns and rejects, of course, any kind of animal abuse such as, in fact, it was the first party to propose, 10 years ago, the ban on dog fights and their criminalization, for example. It was also by the hand of the CDS and the PSD that, in 2014, the crimes against animals of the right of things have been autonomous and specific rules have been created for the attacks on animals with new types of crime that are already in force and that seem to be working well. But more: the CDS has not been out of the discussion that has been held for some time in this House about the creation of a third category in civil law, in the sense that animals are autonomous in the law of things and, therefore, are considered sensitive beings, which we thought was appropriate and proper and what we also welcome. Therefore, this path that has been made is a path that the CDS accompanies, in which it participates and that applauds. But this is also a path that needs to be stabilized, it is a path for which it takes time to assess what is missing, it is a path where we have to have time to assimilate where we need to act and, above all, it is a path that, to be effective, needs to have more and better supervision. Much of what has been proposed by the honourable Members. Petitioners are already done, what is really lacking is effective and effective supervision. That is what we need to do: a monitoring of the joints, the chambers, the central authorities with competences in this area. This is where there really is a cryous failure and this is where we know we need to act. In fact, there has been news today in a weekly publication magazine which is, in fact, alarming, because it tells us about hungry, dirty, ill-treated animals, and who are to God will give to an association that seems to do nothing to welcome them. The law has already prevented such situations, but what is really lacking is supervision, which has not been carried out properly. This is something that we have already discussed here and, at the time we discussed it, we said and repeated that, more than acting at the level of the law, we need to go further in monitoring. Good laws are sometimes bad laws when they do not come out of the paper and the skills with the means to make proper supervision do not act as such. So we say and we repeat what we said then: more than legislate, it is actually necessary to monitor. I conclude, Mr President, by saying only that this draft law that the NAP represents with some amendments continues to confuse pets with animals used for agricultural, livestock and agro-industrial purposes. They cannot and should not be confused. None of them can suffer abuse, obviously, but cannot be subject to the same rules. That is why the CDS cannot actually agree. You have rejected this proposal once and will do so again. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u374	I now give the floor to Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u375	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the initiative of the 4715 petitioners, whose causes have not begun today and which have greatly contributed to a new awareness of society for animal rights. Advances at this level have been overwhelming. They allow us to point out that the PPD/PSD is proud of its participation at the summit and of the capacity to interpret the new compasses and the new social requirements. He did so in 1992 with the authorship of the first great foundation of animal rights and also in 2014 with the criminalization of pet abuse in the Criminal Code, in which he had a participation and legislative impulse. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen a real legal revolution which also has the mark of the PPD / PSD — we see the legal status of animals as a third gender in the civil code, for which we have put forward our own initiative. It is therefore indisputable, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of our role in this matter. The PSD has always been at the forefront of defending and protecting animal rights and has actively contributed to Portugal being at the forefront of promoting animal welfare. We are therefore not indifferent to the social dynamics and changes dictated by the new behaviors of society. We are not therefore indifferent to animal abuse. however, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for us, there is a time for everything. As in all revolutions, after a period of major changes, a period and a time of stability is required. The revolution is too recent so that we can safely conclude which points of fragility. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is not enough time at this time to apply the rules to assess the impact and effectiveness of new measures. So, and contrary to what many say, it is not time for us to act, it is not time to change and change the legislation in force, but to raise awareness and inform citizens and to monitor. Now the time is for stability, legal certainty of standards, confidence of agents, common sense and awareness of the animal cause. For the PSD, it is time for weighting, consideration and reflection, any change from this moment requires it. Caution always requires an assessment before correcting and we cannot ignore the safeguarding of economic activities and our food consumption. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a time in life for everything and a balance that is essential and essential to preserve. Often noble objectives can be frustrated by overintervention or regulation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot risk compromising the legal revolution we have recently achieved. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u376	To give the last speech, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, I would like to begin by greeting the subscribers of petition No 290 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), which ultimately draws the attention of the Assembly of the Republic to the fact that the criminalization of animal abuse has not ended at all with this reality and with this effective problem. What the Greens would like to say, in fact, is that if what is contained in the law is not accompanied by strong awareness-raising programmes both for the authorities and for the animals, there is much that will not result. An environmentalist always believes in the education and awareness of the citizens, but when these campaigns fail, and these awareness programmes in fact, there is a lot that fails. On the basis of this principle, the Greens agree with the draft resolution presented here by the Left Block and will vote for it, precisely in order to recommend to the Government that awareness-raising campaigns be launched on animal welfare and to eradicate the issue of animal abuse. As regards the draft laws and resolutions presented by the NAP, there is one — the draft law, in particular — that deserves us enormous reservations, from the outset because one of the things to do not do much is to increase the penalties. That is to say, penalties increase and it seems that something has been done, when, in fact, nothing will change substantially in relation to that reality. Therefore, this is a question where the Greens — excuse the expression I am going to use — do not embark too much and we believe that it will in fact not solve problems. There are other issues that the NAP includes in its draft law that also deserve us great reservations and that even lead us to think about what this terminology will be so evasive about creating 'appropriate spaces' for animals - it is said that animals « should be kept in appropriate spaces ». The way the NAP develops this matter in the bill leads us to question, for example, whether a homeless person will have the right to have the company of an animal, to be accompanied, to have a pet. Or if there are certain characteristics in the apartments that lead to the lack of conditions for having a pet. Or are we going to stop having pets in apartments and actually bet on community animal groups? That is, this project leaves so many doubts, so many open questions that, in our perspective, it does not have « many legs to walk». With regard to the draft NAP resolution, we find it very interesting to recommend the establishment of a working group of professionals to prevent and treat cases of Noé's syndrome, which we all know as the « accumulation of animals ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u378	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u379	These are the comments the Greens have to make regarding the three projects that are now under discussion, to the issue of the petition that has been submitted. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-04.u380	Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the assessment of petition No 290 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), draft resolutions Nos 1217 and 1219 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and draft law No 724 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and consequently our agenda for today. Before we close the session, I would like to remind the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary session will take place tomorrow, beginning at 10 a.m. and five items on the agenda. First, the projects of lein.o 694 / XIII ( 3 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — Amendment to the Legal System of Parliamentary Investigations ( PSD ) and 721 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations ( amends Law No 5 / 93 of 1 March ) ( BE ). Secondly, we will generally discuss the projects of lein.o 653 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime for the operation of local housing establishments ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August and sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 39 / 2008 of 7 March) ( BE) and 535 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended by Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August ( legal regime for the operation of local housing establishments ), clarifying that any opposition from the condominium to the exploitation of local housing establishments shall be included in the title constituting horizontal property, the condominium regulation in that title which may be contained in or in the regulation of condominium or deliberation of the condominium assembly, approved without opposition and provided that properly registered ( CDS-PP ) together with draft resolution No 902 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government protect occasional providers of local housing services from any deterioration in the legal regime of local housing ( CDS-PP ), with generally the projects of lein. 574 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August as amended by Decree-Law No 63 / 2015 of 23 April 2015 establishing the legal regime for the operation of local housing establishments ( PCP ), 524 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August, clarifying the scheme for the authorisation of the operation of local housing establishments ( PS ) and 723 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines that for each three buildings under local lease the owner shall ensure that the property is intended for long-term lease ( PAN) and with draft resolution No 1218/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the study of tourist cargo capacity in certain cities and promote tourism activity in areas with lower population density ( NAP ). The third point consists of the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.os 711 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Amendment to the European Affairs Monitoring Act ( CDS-PP ), 717 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May on the monitoring, assessment and delivery by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the construction process of the European Union ( PSD ) and 722 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August by strengthening the means of monitoring, assessment and pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union ( BE ). in the fourth point, we will generally discuss draft law No 637 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Alter the banking minimum services regime, making it more appropriate to the needs of banking clients ( PCP ). Finally, we will have a scheduled period of votes. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 49 minutes.]]
