ParlaMint-DK_20160304100006	The meeting is open. From a member of the Folketing, Nick Hækkerup, who is on leave, I have received notification that from 7 March 2016 he can again meet at the Tinget. The term of office of Mr Lunderød Lunderød as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Today there is the following review: Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Jonas Dahl (SF) have informed me that they want to put the following question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: what can the government say about the situation in the West Bank and what will the government do to bring the negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians to a peaceful solution to the conflict back on track? • F 25). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160304100043	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 15 March 2016. First of all, it is for a explanatory statement that the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304100105	Thank you. Here in the midst of the revelations of the perverse conditions in the Grimhøjmosque, I must say, we must again listen to the myth that we Danes and, in general, we Westerners have a very, very strong culture, which does not so allow itself to swirl. It's almost a spell that comes every time. As long as we say it over and over again, it will be true, and I wonder if we will hear it here in the Parliamentary Chamber today too. I would like to admit that this is a very cozy and good story. It is a bright and happy and secure story, because it is the story that everything is going to be okay, and if it doesn't work out, then it's going to be okay anyway. But history is false, and at the risk of appearing as an extinguisher, I would argue today that Danish culture is appallingly weak. Or rather, it has become weak as we are giving up defending it. Danish culture is at its core a wonderful myth of the Nordic myths, the ancient Greece, the Mosaic-Christian faith, of biblical history, of the European Enlightenment, of our own history, of the high school movement and the cooperative movement. This is all that has been stored in our consciousness over time, and which among other things. has instilled in us tolerance, long - suffering, and a natural respect for different thinkers. Everything that has meant that we constantly ask questions about life, that we constantly challenge authorities, that we often answer questions with new questions, that we repeatedly doubt our own abilities, because is our culture now worth collecting? There are other cultures that seem much stronger. There are some who are so concerned about matters. So what do we do in the Western world? Laughs a little by ourselves; we take good care not to be too fluffy, because quite frankly, who are we, since we or our children cannot tolerate a little halal meat? That is the least we can do, since it means so much to those people who profess Islam. And there's nothing going on between us. In addition, we can always confirm each other again that we have a very, very strong culture and that it does not allow itself to be overwhelmed. But yes, Danish culture is in the process of being swirled over these years, and this is precisely the reason why we have called for this debate in the Danish Parliament, where we ask the Prime Minister: How do we defend Danish culture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304100346	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it's the PM. Here you go for a reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304100356	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of this debate, in which I have been asked to explain the value policy of the government, focusing on the challenges arising from immigration, which are pushing and forcing the Danes to change their way of life and behaviour and to correct the situation in the interests of immigrants. I think it is an important and relevant debate, some important issues have been raised. It is also of such concern to the government, and it is perhaps more relevant than ever to discuss it at a time when historically many people are looking for Europe and against Denmark. I told you in my New Year's speech that the migration and refugee crisis is perhaps the biggest and most complicated crisis we have yet seen in this century. Those were big words, but I think they reverberate with most people. I would insist that it is up to us in Denmark to decide which country we are. Of course it is. And we must avoid a situation where our country is defined by a migration towards Europe. We must take care of Denmark. That is also why I will fight to lead Denmark through the refugee crisis in a way that enables us to recognise our country during the crisis and recognise it when we are through, with our economy and our cohesion and our values intact. It is a complicated task, but it is also a basic task, because we are challenged. It pushes our economy when we spend billions and billions on refugees. Then it removes the room for manoeuvre that we have fought so hard to provide. Then our opportunities to develop the Denmark we care about are limited. That's one dimension. But the second dimension is, of course, our cohesion, which is so much challenged when many come here with a very different background. People who are strangers to the unwritten rules and standards that are obvious to us. For me, this is a very important part of the cohesion force in Denmark. It is about Danish culture, it is about Danish values. Here I am not wondering whether you are celebrating Christmas or Ramadan, or whether you are Henrik or Hassan, or what food is being put on the dinner table at home with your family. I am thinking of the fundamental values that define our society: freedom and freedom, equality and equality, democracy, freedom of expression, responsibility for the community. It is, of course, the strong Danish values that have created our history and on which our future must also rest, and which I admit to being challenged, because somehow we have the strange dilemma that others, you might say, use our values to try to fight them. Basically, I think that if you can't see yourself in these values, if you don't want to respect them, you should ask yourself whether you should be here, whether you have gone to the right country. That is one of the advantages of living in a democracy and an open society like ours: if you do not like it, you can leave the country freely again and go wherever you want. It must be made clear to all early on what expectations we have of new citizens in Denmark, and therefore it is crucial that refugees know the rights, democratic principles and gender equality that apply in Denmark. It has to happen early. This must already be done at the asylum centre. And how we do it best is one of the elements we are currently discussing with KL. Because we're gonna have to mark some boundaries. That is also why we should not accept that in our asylum centres, for example. may be 14-year-old girls living with older husbands, just to give an example. We have to mark that in Denmark Danish values apply. That is why I am concerned, and it has done so for a long time, that in our harmonic country there are pockets of ghettos and parallel societies where other values prevail. I used the expression myself when I was Prime Minister last time that one has the feeling that there are some places where some kind of holes have been struck in the Danish map; how too many are supported by the public; how few years have a job where democracy is opposed; where the police meet with stones; where people cannot decide for themselves who they want to marry; where Danish is not the most popular language. We must fight that. After all, there has been a period of Danish politics without this government, where one has talked a little less openly about it. But now we have to talk openly about it again, because that is the first prerequisite for action. For when holes have been struck in the Danish map, it is an expression of the failure of integration. And I think we have to say quite openly that some foreigners are easier to integrate than others, and that there is a limit to how many asylum seekers and family members Denmark can accept. It's not about me not accepting other people with another religion, another ethnicity. It is basically about our society being built on the fact that there are some fundamental values that create some unwritten rules that we play by. And we do not really need all kinds of legislation that attacks personal freedom, because that is not necessary. The whole tradition back from Grundtvig and Kold is challenged if the harmony of our population composition breaks. That is why it is the government's aim to achieve a better balance in foreign policy. It's a key to this discussion. That ambition has been further underlined by the migration and refugee crisis. It is a crisis that is deeply complicated and requires more answers. Firstly, the final answer must be found internationally. Denmark contributes to this. We are among the countries that are most diligently running when international forces are called to the world's hot spots. There is a discussion going on right now in the area of foreign policy. We are one of the few countries in the world that is complying with the UN Development Assistance objective. We are in the top five of donors to the victims of the Syrian war, where we help most and best by helping in the neighbourhood. We continue to press for solutions in the European Union. Unfortunately, it is not always the story that is told, and that is why I would like to put a thick line under the facts, namely that Denmark is doing its part and more. It is important to say on a day like this too, because the first answer to what challenges us is to seek an international solution. But the second answer is, of course, a consistent foreign policy. The Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives and the government have together introduced a new integration service. It makes it less attractive to come to Denmark. It makes it more attractive when you're here to be self-supporting. It saves us with the current refugee pressure of 2 billion. kr. in relation to what would have been the situation with a continued SR government. And the same parties and also the Socialists have together tightened the requirements for family reunification for refugees with temporary protection. Together, we have tightened up the rules for permanent residence and a number of further tightenings. We have done so because we think it is reasonable and because the conditions in a country affect how many people seek asylum. This awareness has spread at home and has increasingly spread to the rest of Europe. And it's a dimension in this debate because numbers matter. Some foreigners are easier to integrate than others. The third answer is therefore precisely better integration. Because it is a fact that refugees have arrived in Denmark. It will also be a fact that refugees are coming to Denmark. We must make every effort to bring down the number in every possible way, but refugees are coming to Denmark, just as it is also a fact that some of the integration task we are facing is a kind of saved task which not only connects directly to those who came yesterday or come tomorrow, but in fact to people who have been here for a long time. That is why there is a huge task of integration which we have historically failed to do well enough and which we must make more effort to solve. For a contribution to the future may be to get the number under control, but that does not change the challenges we already have. After all, the best protection against economic and cultural and value slips and challenges is to get people into society. It is also in the light of the fact that the government is not in favour of the idea of isolating the refugees who come into special refugee villages. I think it's gonna be more expensive. This shows the basis we have handed down to the Folketing, but it also creates the risk that we ourselves will support the construction of parallel societies. So our starting point is clear: that is not the way forward. The way forward is faster access to the labour market. We meet the people who are among us with demands that they support themselves in order to avoid them ending up on long-term public support. They're gonna work and make money. They need to spend their awake time on something sensible rather than walking around in passivity and listening to dark men who speak hatred and talk our society down. Because it is through working that you best become a part of the community and can ultimately support yourself. It is by associating with colleagues that you learn the language. This is where you take the color of the society you're part of. This is where the talk goes about traditions, child rearing, parenting. It is at work that you learn how to do things in Denmark, on which values our country is based. That is why the government's starting point is that everyone who can must support themselves. You have to take responsibility when you can. It's a Danish basic value. That is why it is not good enough today, when only one in two non-western immigrants is in employment. Many of them have been in Denmark for 10, 20 years, perhaps longer. It is not good enough at all that only 3 out of 10 refugees are in work after 3 years. We must strive for a job for many more new refugees. It is the government's aim that we start by having the ambition to raise those who are coming right now to a level that matches the far too low level we have among those who are already here. If it succeeds, public finances will be improved by 2.5 billion. kr. in 2020. But that requires a completely different job-focused effort than it has been in the past. You shouldn't be able to speak Danish to work. On the contrary, one learns Danish when working, and this requires good cooperation between companies, municipalities, employees and all others involved. We are in an extraordinary situation, and that is also why I have chosen to focus on it here, because our ability to deal with the increased pressure currently on us determines our ability to solve the problem we already had before the pressure rose. Therefore, it is the government's starting point in the tripartite negotiations with employees and employers and in the discussions with municipalities on better integration that we get this job focus on things. We have a joint responsibility to solve the problems. I am proud to live in a country that is fundamentally harmonious; a country that helps people in need; and a country that upholds the cohesion and values that bind us together. However, I also agree with what was said in the explanatory statement to this question, namely that we should be careful to lurk into a picture that our values are so strong that they just stand on their own. I think that the strongest dilemma we face is that our values, which we have so dear ones, in the hands of the wrong ones, create opportunities to try to break down our society. It's a painful dilemma. The first thing it should lead us to is an awareness that numbers matter. This should lead us to an open recognition that some people with a certain background fall more easily into Danish society than others. This is the first prerequisite for action. That's why a tight alien policy like the springboard is gonna get to grips with these problems. For it is also a strict immigration policy that creates popular acceptance among the Danes, which is also needed if we are to reach out for strangers among us; if we are to secure tolerance in our society; if we are to be better than we have been historically, to integrate people into our society. That is why I would just like to welcome this question. I think it is extremely relevant. I share the concerns of long stretches of questioners. I also appreciate our trusting cooperation to create a new balance in Danish immigration policy, and I sincerely look forward to listening to the rapporteurs of the various parties and listening to what more operational proposals are being made to resolve the problems which the authors have put their finger on very pertinently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304101809	Thank you, Prime Minister. And then it's sir. Søren Espersen as rapporteur for the questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304101820	Thank you. And thank you to the Prime Minister. I think that was a good speech, and I also recognise the things that have been done, among other things. with the support of the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party in recent months. I think that on long stretches we see very much the same on matters. I will come back to what has really become the focal point in the last few weeks, namely the series that TV 2 is running on the Grimhøjmosque. The hidden camera tells what is preached, in contrast to what the same imams explain when they make official statements, where they fasten the dialogue mask and speak sweetly and flatteringly. Well, Abu Bilal and the types like him have figured out how to fake the whole parnasse and the public system with sweet talk. In all modesty, some of us have known for years. We have read and understood depictions from apostates such as Ahmed Akkari and Ayaan Hirsi Ali, where they explain how this is happening. However, they were quickly swept aside and forgotten, for then it was just nicer to believe in the Imams, who explained smilingly that it was not true at all and that they just want peace and dialogue. But now, even for the most naive and gullible, it must be very clear: Imams like Abu Bilal lie to all of us right to the face. When Abu Bilal believes himself alone with his unhappy bunch of brainwashed religious wretches, the whole mess comes to every imaginable and unimaginable form of violence and death, beheading, stoning, whip strikes. No wonder the Grimhøjmosque is a major producer of IS-jihadists. All the dialogue politicians here in the house and at Aarhus City Hall are routinely jumping up and yelling at the Imams, but believe me, there will be quite a short time, they will all fall down again, and then the explanations begin with the support of all the self-proclaimed experts. Imamer will stand up and explain that they were misunderstood and that the Arab translation was not correct and that it had been taken out of context and that, moreover, he is committed to peace and dialogue. And do you not find a few million people in the municipality of Aarhus, as usual, for some dialogue projects? I think so. But the matter is forgotten, namely that the Grimhøjmosque provides the framework for a cult of violence and death glorifying; a plague over Denmark. As such, it is a first out of many who should be dissolved and banned. But is the Folketing willing to do what is necessary and dare the government? This will be seen in the context of the proposal for adoption which I shall be presenting shortly. I doubt it. Because, as I said in my explanatory statement, Danish culture is now appallingly weak, after we have gradually stopped claiming it after we have stopped setting a framework for outsiders. I am thinking in particular of those who profess Islam, because in general terms it is precisely in favour of this religion that is the worst in adapting to modern Denmark and therefore makes increasingly unreasonable demands. And it goes their way. For when some try to assert Danish culture, they get the whole parnass on their backs and are described as backwards, reactionary, extreme right, provincial, racist, intolerant. Last time it was the case from Randers, where the town council stated that pork is an essential part of Danish food culture. Imagine that something so obvious gave rise to the city council being exposed to public spanking. It was then the meatball; it was then the halalkylling; it was so gender-separated swimming instruction; it was so the creeping game up to Christmas; it was then the home association's Christmas tree; it was then the exemption from camp school; it was then one, and that was the other. Every time we pull a little bit on our shoulders and say: well, well, that's a little thing, it doesn't mean much. By the way, as I said, we have a very, very strong culture that does not allow itself to swirl. But it's under pressure. It swirls around the universe these years. The cultural values are not established. The cultural values are man-made by generations before us alone, and culture is carried on by us who are lucky to be here right now. A few generations who no longer claim Danish culture and Danish culture no longer exist. Danish culture can only survive if there are people who claim it and defend it. This is where Christiansborg must take the lead. I look forward to the debate and shall present on behalf of the Danish People's Party the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government as an interim measure to dissolve the Grimmøjmoskeen and subsequently to dissolve the Grimmøjmoskeen in accordance with section 78 of the Constitution. 2 and 3........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... V 29). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304102338	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a question from Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304102343	Thank you very much. I welcome this question, because value policy is something that the Left very, very strongly defends. That is also why the Left and the government have introduced probably the most consistent immigration policy in recent times with support, of course, and we are very pleased about that. My question is, why does the Danish People's Party now focus solely on one mosque, and I agree that we have massive problems about the Grimmøjmosqueen, but why does the Danish People's Party not embrace the challenge as a whole and come up with a solution to Danish value policy as a whole? Because the solution isn't just a simple one, whether you close this one mosque or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304102423	Sir. Søren Espersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304102425	It's always good to start somewhere. I am not sure that the Left would be more responsive to this proposal for adoption if it were that I had mentioned 10 or 15 other mosques, and since I understand my learned friend, Mr. Naser Khader, from the Conservatives, that it is also happening in many other places. Let's start somewhere. We've been hearing about this Grimhøjmosque for years. I remember as far back as 2003, that we started talking about where things were revealed and so on. Now let's close this shit so we can move on, and also very much like to tackle other mosques where the same thing is preached.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304102508	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur... No, I'm sorry! We also have a social democracy. There you go, laughter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304102525	Thank you. I'm just reading the history of our party. After all, we have been here since 1871 and we will be here a little longer, so the President will have to get used to that. During the past week, TV 2 has been able to reveal, using hidden camera, examples that imams in Denmark teach how to beat their children, that women are not allowed to work with men, and that you should not report your spouse to the police if he is violent. We have heard this before, and now we hear again imams who on Danish soil express extreme religious views that are fundamentally contrary to the values and democratic rights and duties on which we build our society in Denmark. We Social Democrats believe that we have reached a point where we have to recognise that there are deep structural, cultural and religious problems in parts of our immigrant environments. Fortunately, it is far from all Muslims who support these extreme views, but there are groups where there is a lack of gender equality, a fatal lack of attention to child rearing and, one senses, a fundamental, deeper distance from the whole of Danish society. There are immigrant environments in Denmark where fundamental freedoms are violated and where girls and women are controlled in the smallest detail. We have examples of 17-year-old girls who are sent to Pakistan and are forced to marry older men. Imagine, in today's Denmark, a hundred years after women were given the right to vote, there are young girls who do not decide who they want to marry. We have to face up to the fact that we have a major problem, that in some respects we have to start afresh on the fight for freedoms. It is important that we take this wisely. It is important that we recognise that we cannot legislate on everything. Much of this has to come from below, and especially the new generations of young foreigners and new dancers are important. In the Social Democratic Party, the message to the young people is clear: you have a choice. You can choose to say goodbye to the forsaken environments, to choose democracy, to opt out of oppression. If you do, I want you to know that we are ready to help you with everything we have. You have a choice, but we also have a responsibility to ensure that society is on your side if and when you make that choice. Fortunately, there are strong and good forces that support the Danish fundamental values, which support democracy and support equality and respect the Danish freedoms. I believe that the vast majority of Muslims in Denmark are ordinary citizens. I believe that the vast majority of Muslim parents are good parents who trust their children, that they are parents who respect their children's wishes and allow them to choose a way of life for themselves. These are good powers that we must support. But there are also families where it is not. Here we must support the young women who break the patterns and the young women who free themselves from parental standards. And the young woman who wants an education, a boyfriend and, at all, the right to decide her own life, must know that there is an entire society ready to help her and support her. If she is trapped in a violent marriage, she must be able to get away; we must give her security and basis to build a new life. In social democracy, our solidarity will be with those who fight this fight for liberation every day. But just as solidarity, we must be with the victims on these issues, just as hard must we confront the reactionary forces that are the source of the problems, which brings me back to the example of the Imams. We cannot ignore the fact that culture and religion matter in this context. Fortunately, many Muslims will argue stubbornly that Islam has nothing to do with the things being preached in the extreme environments of Denmark and fortunately for that. But that does not change the fact that in some mosques religion is actually used to preach messages of oppression and anti-democratic attitudes. We must fight that; we must fight it. We must be better able to intervene and sanction it when there is social control. The police, the PET, the social services, all with responsibility and a share in this issue must do more and become more effective. We must also do more from Christiansborg. We Social Democrats want to stop foreign hate preachers at the border. We simply must not be able to come to Denmark and call for holy war or fight against democracy. We also propose a form of authorization system, where religious ministers must undergo a course and pass a test on Danish values before they can be authorized to preach in Denmark, an authorization which, moreover, must be able to be taken from them if they break the law. Finally, I should like to say that the Socialists, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives support the following: proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that a consistent immigration policy must continue to be pursued so that the integration task can be handled and no parallel societies arise. All citizens in Denmark are expected to respect freedoms, gender equality and democratic principles. The Danish Parliament also notes that the government and the Danish Parliament must combat anti-democratic and extremist environments to a much greater extent, such as: around the Grimhøjmosque in Aarhus, who is trying to undermine democracy and Western values. • V 30). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103121	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some brief comments. I regret that I forgot about the Social Democratic Party, but when some people are right about there, they may be overlooked, and that is simply the reason. There are a few brief comments, and that is first Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103135	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Sir. Dan Jørgensen said that culture and religion matter, and that is true. I think there is one aspect to this discussion that does not take up so much, and that is the very way in which one exercises one's religion. It is, of course, the case that the Constitution states that one has freedom of religion and that one must practice one's faith as long as it does not conflict with morality or disrupt public order. Secrecy means the fundamental values of society, the moral code that exists in society, and what is the problem, not only in the Grimhøjmosque, but also in other mosques, is the way they practice their religion, for example. through teaching, which is an active action. It is their beliefs, and there it is the claim of the Danish People's Party that their beliefs are actually contrary to the Constitution. So I want to hear what the Socialists' comments are about that. Mr. Dan Jørgensen and the Social Democrats that what is happening in the Grimhøjmosque goes beyond what one can afford to do with reference to freedom of religion? Because if that is the position of the Socialists, just as it is the position of the Danish People's Party, then it opens up new opportunities to come after these environments, to ban them and to impose sanctions on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103246	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103247	I can basically say that we are very open to searching all the possibilities of sanctioning the Grimmy Mosque and other places where these things had to be done. But where I may disagree slightly with the questioner is in relation to this moral issue, because despite the fact that the rapporteur and I may agree that many of the things that are said in these places are not morally sound, this does not mean that the questioner and I have the same definition of what is morally justifiable. I know, for example, that there are also members in the rapporteur's party who argue that children should be beaten. I am very much opposed to that, and I find it very immoral.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103330	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103331	If we are to try to relate a little to what the matter is about and be serious at least for a short time, I do not think it would be quite fair to compare the Danish People's Party, which, moreover, is not in favour of the right of reproof, with what is going on in the Grimmøjmoskeen. I don't know if that's it, sir. Dan Jørgensen claims. That would certainly be a pretty wild claim. But what Mr. Dan Jørgensen mentioned in his rapporteur's speech is actually what I would like to ask, and I would like to know whether there are any further comments from the Socialists on that. I mean, when sir... Dan Jørgensen says that religion and culture matter, I totally agree with it. Is Mr. Dan Jørgensen agrees that we should explore those parts of the constitution that actually set limits and limits on what one can with reference to the practice of one's religion, because it must not conflict with morality? I think we can agree that there are some fundamental values in this society that we have to stand guard over and over which the Grimhøjmosque is stepping.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103422	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103424	Well, I actually answered the question, namely that we were very open to searching all possibilities within the framework of the Constitution in this respect. I think perhaps what perplexed the questioner a little was that the questioner was somewhat piqued by the fact that I allowed myself to refer to the fact that there are therefore members of the Danish People's Party, whether the questioner likes it or not, who have argued in favour of the right of rebuke. And then I used it as an example that there may well be differences, even among members of this high thing, about what one thinks is morally justifiable and not morally justifiable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103456	The next question is Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103459	Yeah, that's how an apologist speaks. I don't know if sir. Dan Jørgensen knows what it is. It is one who tries to relativeize; it is one who when Islam and Islamism are attacked, then says: Well they are not worse than Marie Krarup. May we be here! I think it is far, far below the dignity of the Danish Parliament to listen to such nonsense. I'd like to ask Mr. Dan Jørgensen about something quite different we can come back to that again, but I just think it's beneath the dignity of Parliament to draw such comparisons; I don't think one can be familiar with that: why does Mr. Dan Jørgensen, that it's gonna be okay? For example, what is it abroad? in England, in Germany, in France, living in a completely different time compared to the Islamic and Islamist threat that makes him believe it? Where exactly does Dan Jørgensen see that there is something positive ahead?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103554	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103555	I have to admit that I did not know the very fine foreign word used by the rapporteur, but I could understand that it would be a bad thing to relate different statements. I certainly don't think it is. It seems to me that there is a duty to try to set things against each other and compare things. When I use the example of the Court of Auditors, it is to point out that we certainly do not agree with the Danish People's Party in all. And the fact that we have discussed the right of reproof quite often in recent years says that this is, of course, a very relevant discussion, and I really cannot understand why the rapporteur gets so excited that I am using that example. In relation to examples from other countries, it is clear that I cannot just point to any other country where it has been possible to resolve these problems satisfactorily. But it is certainly clear that I will not support the line of the Danish People's Party either, because there are no solutions either. It is clear that you are probably a little more vocal and better at using ugly expressions when describing what is going on than the rest of us, but you have no solution. I have actually pointed out in my speech a few specific examples of things that I think could help and that I think we should implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103723	Thank you. And you don't talk directly to Members. I've often said that to Mr. Dan Jørgensen. Sir. Søren Espersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103728	[Sound out] Let's start somewhere, let's get something concrete instead of this bullshit, which I really think Social Democracy has been practicing for a lot of years. Every time there has been a new case about the Grimhøjmosque, they say: then we have to look at what we have to investigate, we have to do one, and we have to do the other. Close the mosque! So with regard to being an apologist: Yes, we are talking here about beheading, stoning, whipping, large-scale production of IS warriors to Islamic State and then Marie Krarup is mentioned! In other words, we cannot be allowed to be here and be allowed to discuss what is the subject. Well, that's so I can't understand that sir. Dan Jørgensen will be familiar, honestly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103812	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103813	I should like to remind the President-in-Office that it is called 'Mrs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103817	I have to say to Mr. Knox. Dan Jørgensen, that there is no discussion with the President at all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103822	I take it easy that the rapporteur gets so excited. I think this is a very important debate. I do not compare it with beheading and stoning, but it is clear that whether you can beat your children or not is of course also about Danish values, and I do not share the values of some members of the Danish People's Party in this respect. In relation to the whole discussion on the Grimm Mosque, I have said this several times, and my President has also said this on other occasions, I would say that we will do everything in our power to help put an end to the things that are going on there. Nor will we rule out the closure of the place if it can be done at all within the framework of the constitution. I guess so too, sir. Søren Espersen agrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103913	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304103918	Thank you. I am very pleased that the Socialists are reporting out clearly now. There is a need to support the many forces that fight this freedom struggle every day, have done so for a long time and have also succeeded in doing so very many places, but of course not everywhere. I am also very pleased that the Socialists share the view that, as I see it, the analysis that it is absolutely necessary to make integration work even better, to get far more of the people who come here to contribute to Danish society, to get to work as quickly as possible. I would therefore just like to ask the Socialists in this debate on values how the refugee villages proposed by the Social Democrats together with the Danish People's Party are to contribute to integration and to help us continue to support this fight for freedom and equal rights, which we are very committed to here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104020	Here you go, sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104022	This is a very relevant question, because it is clear that how to design and implement such refugee villages, if necessary, will mean a great deal to the benefit of integration or the opposite. The idea that the Danish People's Party stands for, which is that people should be interned and they should not be part of the surrounding society, will damage integration. The idea that we stand for, among other things. The Red Cross, which I do not think many will accuse of being against integration, has also supported it, is an idea in which we say that we have to relieve the municipalities. They are currently facing enormous problems, especially in relation to finding suitable housing. And it is certainly not good for integration to place people temporarily in hotels or buy expensive villas • things that are not durable in the long run. So instead of that, we need to have such a buffer zone where we set up some camps and discuss with each other how we can make it best possible so that the people who are going to live in these villages have the opportunity to interact with the surrounding society, including most importantly: get started working and get Danish education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104134	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104135	Is it true that the Socialists believe that schooling, day care institutions and everything that has to do with children and their opportunities for access to the surrounding society should be within the fence in a refugee village?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104150	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104151	Now I don't know if it was a statement, but we're not talking about villages to be fenced in. We are talking about villages, which must be part of the surrounding community, and we have not, in fact, determined exactly which tasks are to be carried out in the villages and which are to be carried out in the municipalities. We may not even think it is necessary to find a model where it is the same throughout the country, because in some places you will have better opportunities to carry out tasks than you want elsewhere. That is to say, it is easy to imagine that, for example, The task of integrating children into schools will be easier to deal with in some places where there are other places where you simply will not be able to keep up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104230	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104234	I would like to return to the matter and the starting point, at least with regard to the Grimhøjmoskeen. I think it is a major problem that it is not taken sufficiently seriously. So, what is going on out in the Grimmøjmoskeen, the Sharia Law has been implemented in practice, which means that society closes down in relation to Denmark. Denmark is going to stand as a kuffar, as a disbelief. The fact that there will then be a new integration plan tomorrow, which does not address the problem, I think is a shame. I think it is a pity that we cannot get to grips with what solid measures can be taken in terms of legislation in relation to, for example, closing this mosque and thus also signaling that what is going on out there will not help us to really send the signal to those environments that it should not happen. You could, of course, run circle teaching, as you have done for many years in relation to these problems. It just doesn't help anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104339	Firstly, I think I have repeated a few times that we would like to help close that mosque if we could do so within the framework of the constitution. In fact, it is a little paradoxical to have this question put by the Danish People's Party, because the Danish People's Party is the only party, as far as I can see, when I look beyond the Assembly Hall, which has no solution at all. We should also bear in mind that even if we managed to close this mosque, it is far from the same as solving the problem. Well, that's not the bricks talking. It's not the bricks that preach. These are the people who are in them. That is why it is perhaps just as important to address that problem at least. And that is what we are doing, for example. I want to do something about the proposals that I mentioned in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104425	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104426	Well, it's not bricks that the paragraphs that can close the Grimhøjmosque are about. These aren't bricks. Nobody's ever talked about bricks. It is about religions or associations that preach violence or call for, among other things. violence. I mean, nobody's been talking about bricks. And I believe that if a precedent is created by closing a mosque where these things are going on • i.e. a religion where these things happen, you can actually close two, and you can close five.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104459	Okay, well, it may be successful, and if the Danish People's Party is right, of course, we cannot take this discussion again in a year's time, because if we succeed in closing the mosque, the problem is obviously also solved. Well, I don't believe that. I think it may well be one remedy, but no matter what, we have to keep in mind that there are people who mean this. And they will think so, whether they have some bricks or they have an association with a statute and what else exists. They'll probably mean these things anyway. That is why we must oppose it. That is why we need to combat this by means of the instruments that I referred to in my speech. And there is what I have to say that I do not see that the Danish People's Party has any solutions at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104541	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104544	Thank you. First of all, I would ask the rapporteur to speak a little louder, it is a little difficult to hear down here, and I would like to listen to the rapporteur's speech. I noticed that the rapporteur said that he believes that not all Muslims support these extreme views. Then I would just like to point out that 4 out of 10 Danish Muslims want the Koran to be included in the legislation. It's a survey from October last year. Half of them want girls to wear a scarf. In view of TV 2's revelations, what will the Social Democrats do to fight these extreme Islamic values and at the same time strengthen Danish values?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104641	I'll try to talk a little louder, but I actually think there are pretty good opportunities to turn up the sound in some places, or you can put on a pair of headphones. But I'll try to talk a little louder. The very thing we want to do is to tackle this both with soft instruments and more consistently. It is clear that you cannot deny that some people are actually listening to these people preaching these things, and you cannot deny that what they are saying can spread. That is why, for example, we need to do something about it. proposes an authorisation system in which we ensure that these preachers are aware of what are Danish values and Danish legislation, freedoms and other things. They will be tested in it, and it is also clear that if you break the law, you can be deprived of such a license. This seems to us to be a concrete instrument which may be quite effective. We also want hate preachers coming from abroad not to be able to access Denmark in order to preach. These are, once again, very concrete proposals. We are happy to listen to others too, but that is at least a few new proposals. And then there is the matter of helping those people who want something else. There must be alternatives to the advice and guidance you can seek in these mosques, you have to be able to get them elsewhere. If you want to get out of these environments, you have to be able to get out of them, and I don't think that's circular pedagogy or anything else, I just think that's quite common both snuffy and human.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104804	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104806	Thank you. For the plans for authorization here: do the Socialists and the rapporteur have examples that elsewhere it has counteracted the extreme sermons in the mosques? Has it prevented us from saying on the one hand what society wants to hear from them, that is, the nice things, and that at the same time something else is said when the cameras and journalists are not there? Has an authorization elsewhere counteracted these tendencies? Are there examples of this? I'd like to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104850	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104851	I do not know where this has been done in concrete terms, but I wonder a little if the Danish People's Party does not agree that the threat of sanctions can sometimes work. After all, it is also usually the policy of the Danish People's Party that the punishment is not something you just do to avenge yourself, but that it is actually something you do because it has a certain preventive effect. And I think that it could have a certain preventive effect if you could have your authorisation withdrawn if you did not follow laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104919	Thank you. Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304104924	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I note that the rapporteur is appealing to the group that can be persuaded to opt out of these Islamic values, which we are not so enthusiastic about, and the rapporteur would like to take action to get them out of this, if you can put it that way. I wonder whether the rapporteur might not overlook the problem itself, namely that there is, after all, a large group, perhaps even intelligent people, who are actively opting out of democracy and actively opting for Sharia, which is, after all, anything but democracy. There is a hard-boiled group which cannot, if I may say so, be taken to heart. It is of course the group that is interesting, and I would like to see a little more specific, a little more firm, what kind of tools or instruments I think were mentioned before. What is it that will be done in concrete terms? Where exactly are we going to put it? It's not even certain these people are interested in getting a license. How are we going to take a firm stand against the group that opts out of democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105031	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105033	After all, we cannot legislate on positions, so frankly I do not really know what the questioner is asking about. Perhaps the questioner, if the questioner gets a second round of it, could put it into practice. Is it that you want to legislate against thinking these things, or what are you imagining? I have some doubts about what I have to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105100	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105103	I am simply focusing on the points made by the rapporteur himself, namely that we have a group of people to whom we may be able to speak, but there is another group where we cannot, and instead of playing the ball back to me, I think it is interesting to know what the Social Democrats are really going to do with this group. Is this more information that we have been doing for 30 years without it helping? Is it 21 expensive integration plans that have been put into the lake without effect, or what do you want? That's what I miss an answer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105135	I did not get much wiser, but I can try to say a little about what I myself think, so let us hope that it hits roughly what the questioner is calling for. I believe that the attraction for radical environments is greater when integration does not work. Does this mean that even in well-integrated environments, there can be no individual who can be tempted? You never know. I guess it doesn't. However, I believe that basically everything else will reduce the influx to the radical environments if integration works, and that means that those who want to be integrated must, of course, do everything we can to integrate. We must also do so in relation to those who may be on their way out on a slope or who do not feel at home in Danish society or do not have a job or have no kind of community. There must be alternatives. I believe that this is the only way to make integration work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105230	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105233	I just have a very brief question, because this is basically about Danish values, and Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen has been out to say that S will also limit non-Western immigration. Is Mr. Dan Jørgensen agrees?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105253	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105256	After all, we have supported the legislative package that was adopted here in the Folketing recently, when we are tightening up Danish legislation on foreigners, and we are doing so because we believe that if we are to have an opportunity to help the people who come to Denmark properly and make integration work, the number will matter. That is, of course, the reason why we have chosen, among other things. to support the tightening of family reunification rules. It is not because we really think that it is a particularly nice thing to do or that it is a tool we really wanted to use, but it is something we think is necessary because the number as it stands is as large as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105340	Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105344	I really have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105353	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105354	Thank you. It is, of course, a very important debate that we have here today, and I think what the Socialist rapporteur says is interesting. What I am a little surprised about is that it seems that the Socialists cannot support closing the Grimhøjmosque. Especially in view of the broadcasts that have been on TV 2, it has to be said that all warning lights must shine in relation to the Grimhøjmosken and also in relation to the so-called Aarhus model, where the municipality seems to have a close collaboration with the Grimhøjmosken. Does this not lead to reflection by the Social Democrats? Fortunately, I heard the chairman of the Socialist Group, Mette Frederiksen, say yesterday that the Grimhøjmosque should be closed. But, to put it mildly, I doubt what the position of the Socialists is actually here today in the debate, where it seems that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party will not be supported, precisely to close the Grimhøjmoskeen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105451	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105452	Unfortunately, I do not think I can help the questioner if the questioner is not already aware of the four times I have said today that we would like to be involved in closing the mosque, but that this should be done within the framework of the constitution. If that is not enough for the questioner, it will be difficult for me to get closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105510	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105512	That is precisely what the proposal for adoption today is all about. We say, of course, in relation to Article 78 of the Constitution, that it is indeed an obligation to close associations that act by violence or call for violence. And there can be little doubt either from what has emerged from the TV 2 broadcast, but also from the many other times when some have revealed that they are talking with two tongues in the Grimhøjmoskeen before they are convinced that that is exactly what they are doing. If they do not work by violence, then there may not be any evidence of violence. They call for almost rebellion against the standards and rules that we have in Danish society. Well, then, sir. Dan Jørgensen does not agree that this is precisely the situation and that precisely in the proposal for adoption by the Danish People's Party, the basic law is used to say that the association and the mosque must be closed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105610	I agree that these are some deeply critical things that are being said. I share the view that I am quite sure of the government, namely that it is quite difficult to close a mosque within the framework of the constitution. If that situation should change and it is believed that there is evidence and conditions that make it possible to do so, we would like to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105641	Then it's mr. Naser Khader, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105644	I heard the rapporteur say that radicalisation is due to poor integration. On what basis is the rapporteur based? The leader of the Islamic State, al-Baghdadi, was probably not radicalised because he was poorly integrated in Denmark. Many of those who have gone to Syria have actually been integrated. When the rapporteur says it has something to do with non-integration, the rapporteur overlooks the attraction of ideology. So what is the rapporteur's basis on the fact that it has something to do with non-integration, that people are being radicalised?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105722	In fact, I think I said quite clearly that it could not be denied that there would also be people who were integrated who would be attracted to these environments. But I clearly believe that the attraction of everything else equal will be less among integrated people. I also share the view expressed by the Prime Minister in his speech that it is extremely important to get people into work and to make them become an integral part of the society of which they are part.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105751	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105753	I think it is too easy just to attribute the lack of integration. It is a deliberate choice made by many of the young people. Therefore, it cannot be argued that it has anything to do with poor integration, that they are radicalised. It underestimates the ideology that attracts young people who end up in Syria, for example. Would the rapporteur not agree with me?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105818	No, I'm not gonna give that to sir. Naser Khader is right, and I would also like to say that this is not something you can look up in a book. So it is hard to say exactly what the mechanisms are that make us end up in the situation we have unfortunately ended up in. But I have to say that I really do not hope that Mr. Naser Khader is right. Because no matter how well we succeed in integrating people, we will have a problem that is just as big and then the question arises: what do we do? I believe that if we give people an alternative, if you offer them a lifestyle that is more attractive and that makes them have a happier and more freer life, the vast majority will choose it rather than move towards extremism. Does that mean everyone will choose it? No, I'm afraid it doesn't. If you cannot handle them with soft values and instruments, you have to deal with them with the hard tools. But I don't think so, sir. Naser Khader will agree with me that in any case, is it a good idea to ensure that people are integrated as well as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105919	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments or questions, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304105930	Thank you. Today's debate on value policy could probably not be more relevant than it is right now. Over the last few days, we have had an insight into how Western values are being worked against daily in Denmark. And the gaze in everyday life at the Grimhøjmosque is, to put it mildly, disgusting. Here imams preach about stoning, physical punishment of children, unanswered gender roles and other things that are as far away from the Danish values as one can possibly imagine. In fact, one would almost think that TV 2 had timed their broadcast with this debate, but they haven't; I certainly don't suppose so. That is why it is also important to stress that this debate is not about the Grimhøjmosque. It is about value policy as a whole. Denmark is built on a foundation of freedoms. In this country, you have to express yourself as you please, and you have to behave as you please as long as you stay within the limits of the law. That culture has taken generations to build, and we must safeguard it. And the rights apply both to people with whom I agree and to those with whom I disagree smoking. That is why we must also be concerned when we are confronted with the violent reality that unfortunately exists in rabid environments around this country. Sharia supporters, salafists, Syrian warriors are out there and they must be combated, but they must be combated in the right way. We must have done away with the self-educated darkmen if you can call them what they call imams and walk around giving obscure advice that you should not go to the police if you are beaten by your husband. We must be told that there are people in Denmark who actually think that whip and stoning is an appropriate punishment for adultery. We need to do something about all this, because it simply does not belong in Danish society. Firstly, the Left tool is to minimise the influx of asylum. And there I am pleased that we have adopted a large number of measures in recent months, which have led to Denmark today leading the most consistent immigration policy in recent times, and that Denmark has therefore only received approx. one-tenth of the asylum pressure, such as: Our neighbour Sweden has. Secondly, we want to crack down on extremist environments. That's why I'm glad the Justice Department started a job before these footage shows on TV 2. For the policy of the Left is conducted not only on the basis of television broadcasts, but on the basis of the real world. Thirdly, we need to strengthen integration. And there I am also proud that the government is undertaking the most comprehensive reform of the Danish asylum programme. Via e.g. Tripartite negotiations and two-party negotiations are looking at how to get refugees into work, because that is the way to motivation. We engage with employers and trade unions and remove bureaucracy in municipalities. However, it is also important to emphasise that integration for the Left also goes the other way. The people who come to Denmark have a responsibility to learn and respect the Danish culture and way of life. They themselves have a responsibility to conform to Danish standards and values. I would like to make that very, very clear. In those words, the Left supports the fact that we must continue to pursue a consistent policy on foreigners so that integration can keep pace. We must work to ensure that everyone in Denmark respects freedoms, gender equality and democratic principles. And we must oppose the anti-democratic and extremist environments in Denmark. That is why, of course, the Left also supports the text previously read by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110314	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110319	Thank you. This is very characteristic of what usually happens: We hear something about what is going on in closed Muslim environments in Denmark, in this case in the Grimhøjmoskeen, and then all politicians puff themselves up, and I think the Left will level the mosque with the ground. That's what they say in the press. But when it comes to the Assembly, it does not want to do much, and that is why it continues. That's why they keep doing it. It is because they can see that Danish society does not take action against them, and then it is clear that they will stand firm on theirs, and they will continue to do so. Well, then, sir. Marcus Knuth be very optimistic about the fact that the trialogue gets Imam Abu Bilal into work and that everything is then solved. But I don't know if it is. It is so naively naive, and that is why I have a call to the rapporteur of the Left and to the government. Because we've tried all that, and it doesn't work, and now you have to come up with some new tools to come after these people, and that's why I just want to hear: what does the Left mean by that, when the Left says you want to level the mosque with the ground? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110417	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110421	If I may correct the rapporteur, I believe that what I said was that my first reaction was "and it is at least the natural human reaction for me that one should of course bring that mosque to the ground." But then you have to think a little more professionally, because if you close the mosque, what happens? If that's the only move you're making, then the good imam can if you can call him that... open your store 50 meters further down the street and continue completely unfettered. My approach is that if we can close the mosque using ordinary Danish legislation, then I think it is fine. That is also why I am pleased that the police in East Jutland have gone into the matter. But that does not solve the problem, and so if we can solve the problem without closing the mosque, I think that is fine. This is not just one problem, it is not the mosque that is the problem, but it is the people who are in there, and these are the things that come from the mosque, and therefore this requires a very, very wide range of measures. That is why, as I said before, I am very, very pleased that, in the Ministry of Justice, even a long time before these recordings started, we have started to look at a wide range of measures that can take care of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110523	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110526	All that remains is that we've tried all that, like Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth stands and says, and it works to some, but it certainly doesn't work to everyone. What is going on in Grimmøjmoskeen is social subversive work, and the Folketing should criminalise that. It is the case with criminal activities in society, by the way, that when the police come after the criminals, they move and the police move on. Imagine if it was that the argument used, as Mr. Marcus Knuth shows up in relation to all kinds of criminal activities in society. Then the argument would be that we might as well give up, that we might as well not come after them, because if we come after them, they'll just move. That is the way it is: the authorities will have to keep up when the criminals move forward. And what is going on in the Grimhøjmosque is social subversive work, and of course the Folketing should criminalise that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110605	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110608	I agree that this is undermining society and that we must strike down hard on it, but I do not agree that this government does not intend to do anything about it. I agree that the previous government did nothing about it. Similar recordings were seen over and over again and nothing happened. However, as I said before, we started some steps before these recordings came for a day, and of course those steps need to be worked through. It is not just some snag solution based on something that is shown on television that must come, and those actions must of course have time to be worked through. These are also measures which will cover several ministries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110643	Sir. Christian Langballe, Dansk Folkepartie, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110647	I just think that, when we are having this debate, I have to say that there is something that I think the rapporteur has simply not understood, and that is perhaps why we have this debate. So, these people who sit out in the Grimhøjmoskeen, you may well call darkened, but it is actually people who have understood the Danish system completely, who have understood the Danish mentality and the political messages from Christiansborg completely. Because they know that nothing is happening, and that is why they see Danish politicians and democracy as weak. Because in that mentality, the only thing that works is the hammer. So I just think we could start there and ask: what are we going to do? I believe that closing one mosque would have a huge effect on the fact that they then found out to say: hey, there are actually some people, some politicians who take this seriously. And if you can close one, you can close ten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110747	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110751	I agree that some of these very occult people are really, really good at exploiting our values of freedom and Danish legislation. That is precisely why, if the only measure that you will take, which is the action that the Danish People's Party is taking, is to close the mosque, it will make them want to continue in a building 50 metres further down the road. That is why it is a completely meaningless and populist move that the Danish People's Party is making here, in other words in the wake of a television broadcast alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110819	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110823	In relation to this problem of speaking with two tongues, I would ask the rapporteur to go in and see the programme on Channel 4 called Undercover Mosque. It is from England and exactly the same thing is happening, and I would say that it is far, far worse, and it is in mainstream mosques that pride themselves on being dialogue seekers and where religious events are made to show how tolerant you are. I mean, this is happening everywhere in Europe, and now we have seen that it is actually happening in Denmark too, and so I just think that we should be ready to close some of these hatcheries to the worst extremism. Because that shows that you take it seriously. But how many integration plans have there been? 21 integration plans are what have been through the ages.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110920	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304110923	After all, we agree on the issue here, and we are very much in agreement on it, and I think there is actually a fairly broad consensus on this in the Danish Parliament, but to stare blindly at the closure of the mosque as the only thing I think, to put it mildly, is very, very naive. I have said that I am in favour of closing this mosque if it is based on current legislation, because one can go in and say that it has been said and that therefore the mosque is closed. But closing the mosque as the only goal I am directly opposed to, because it will not solve the problem. This is so deep about what's being preached and the Syrian warriors, and I'm sorry I'm running out of time. Well, this is very, very deep, and therefore a wide range of measures is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111009	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111013	Thank you. After all, the question is about strengthening Danish values. I noticed that the Prime Minister said in his speech that it doesn't matter whether you celebrate Christmas or Ramadan. But it doesn't matter whether you celebrate Christmas or Ramadan, because when you celebrate Christmas, you distinguish between the religious and the secular. It is in Christianity. When you celebrate the Ramadan, it all merges into the worldly and the religious. That's what's being preached in the mosques. So my question to the rapporteur is: does the rapporteur agree with the Prime Minister that it does not matter whether we celebrate Christmas or whether we celebrate Ramadan, given that we stand here to discuss how we strengthen Danish values?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111103	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111106	It is sad that a rapporteur can simply say yes without arguing for his agreement with the Prime Minister. We are here in the Chamber to strengthen Danish values, and then the rapporteur simply says yes to the fact that it does not matter whether you celebrate Christmas or Ramadan, when the Ramadan is the starting point for what is being preached in the mosques. But the next question must then be: how do we integrate the Muslims who come into the extreme environments of the mosques when they have one face inside, which is extreme and which calls for breaking the law, and on the other hand have a face on the outside that talks about cooperation and integration? How on earth does the rapporteur intend to integrate these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111153	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111155	I'm sorry if my answer before was a little disappointing. Let me clarify a little: yes, I agree with the Prime Minister, and I agree with the Prime Minister because we have freedom of religion here in Denmark, and Ramadan is not a problem in itself as long as it is celebrated by moderate Muslims. The problem is radicalism, and it has nothing to do with Ramadan as such. With regard to integration, I would say that this must be done through the labour market. This must be done by not sitting in a parallel society at home on high transfer income. That is why we have come up with the new integration service, which among other things. should also minimise the number of asylum seekers seeking to move towards Denmark. But integration is taking place in the labour market. That is why we are now engaged in two and three-way negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111233	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111238	Thank you. What annoys me is that the Left will not be involved in doing what can be done under the Constitution, so simply dissolve the union behind the Grimhøjmoskeen. I must say that if they imam in the Grimhøjmosque today sit and follow this, they will have fun and say: then they succeeded again. We have had this debate since 2003. We've been discussing this for 13 years, and every time it comes out immediately. You know the language. I know that the Left is incredibly concerned about language, as if it were the only glorifying thing. It's not. Is it not true that the most rabiate imams in England speak quite excellent English and the most rabiate imams in France are therefore very good at French and the most rabiate here is therefore good at Danish? It is, of course, essential to be able to speak the Danish language. I am not saying that it is not. But the Left believes that it is the key to integration. It's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111340	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111343	In fact, I think that the Imams in the Grimhøjmosque would enjoy themselves if it were the case that we supported the Danish People's Party's proposal and our only reaction was to close a building, because then they could continue 50 m further down the road. That wouldn't solve a problem. That's where they'd laugh at us. What we need to do is to come up with a wide range of measures. I have also said there in the media that I think we should look at what we do abroad, what we do there and what we can learn from, for example. our fight against organised crime and the gang environment, where a wide range of measures have just come to an end. Nor is it possible to solve the situation around the rockers by simply saying: OK, now we are closing one of the buildings where they belong and the problem is solved. Unfortunately, it's not that easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111427	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111430	Well, it's actually that easy to close the Grimhøjmosque: It's closing it. Well, it's really easy. If there are associations there that seek elsewhere, we will also close that place. Well, if you don't start somewhere, nothing happens. And then Mr. Marcus Knuth again about a wide range of actions, but I have to say that I have heard that song since 2003 that song about everything you had to start, and all the things you had to do, and the dialogue things that needed to be done, and the City of Aarhus, and I don't know what. Nothing's gonna happen until the Grimhøjmosque's association dissolves. And it has nothing to do with a building... it can be used for all sorts of other sensible things, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111515	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111518	I do not entirely agree with that. I would say that the rapporteur may have heard a lot of empty talk under the previous government, but there was no action. No action was taken. We have reported very clearly that we have taken this problem seriously from day one not just on the basis of what is shown on TV. And that's why we're working on solving this problem, but the solution has to come in a natural extension of the work that's going on, not just because of this populist focus that's on the Grimhøjmosque. This problem is so much deeper than the Grimhøjmosque. It is something that is happening in all parts of Denmark; it is something that is also rooted in sending people to Syria to fight; it is a call for violence against women; it is a call for violence against children. You don't just solve that by shutting down a building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111604	Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111608	Thank you. It is amazing that the rapporteur of the Left believes that nothing is being done when the Left itself voted on the previous government's action plan to prevent radicalisation and extremism. But if the Left regrets it, it must come out. I look forward to seeing the concrete proposals made by the Left on this. I'm sure we can work together on that. I would like to put a question to the rapporteur of the Left, because at the beginning of this debate the Prime Minister made it very clear that solution number one to the refugee crisis is European and international, but I just did not hear what the Left's offer is about what such a pan-European solution actually looks like. Can the rapporteur make me wiser?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111702	Well, I am glad that the Left has a nuanced approach to solving the asylum influx, both to Denmark and to Europe. We have come up with a large number of measures in this Chamber which have reduced the number of asylum seekers seeking to join Denmark, etc. etc. In addition, however, the Left supports pan-European measures. That is also why the government has increased the amount of funds we send to Frontex, including personnel. We are, of course, taking part in the negotiations that are in a pan-European framework, including with Turkey. We are looking at solutions to the Balkan borders. This is therefore a wide range of measures. And that is where I think we are, as opposed to, for example. The Danish People's Party has just the sensible approach because it is both international and national.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111750	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111754	Frontex, yes, and we have supported that too. Can the rapporteur of the Left not be more specific in relation to what exactly is needed in order for a European solution to be satisfactory to the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111808	You could start with the negotiations that the European Union has with Turkey, among other things. to reduce the number of people seeking to cross the sea from Turkey to Greece. If we could solve that problem, we would at least have solved most of it. I myself have worked in Turkey most of last year and have seen how consistently the Turks can actually close their borders to Syria if they like, but also that the border with Europe is relatively open. So if you can solve it, it will certainly be a step along the way. Some of the other measures I think I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111837	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111841	First of all, sir, I want to say something about it. Marcus Schmidt, I'm sorry, sir. Marcus Knuth said that the Danish People's Party is populist. It is said indirectly that the government minister in this area is a populist; she has said that she would actually like to see the Grimhøjmosque leveled to the ground, closed. Shouldn't we hide it out of the way and then say: okay, let's move on, let's look ahead, let's do what it takes? That is also a little what the rapporteur would like to hear. But what does it take? What's the Left thinking? What's the government thinking? I think I can be in doubt about this if you do not want to take Section 78 of the Constitution seriously, which says precisely that associations which act by violence or call for violence must be dissolved. After all, it is an obligation for the Folketing to take seriously the constitution which is a framework for our entire society. What's wrong with closing the Grimhøjmosque? Now, if we're hiding that populist thing away and not putting adjectives on it, what's wrong with it? Isn't it really something these people respect if we actually did?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111953	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304111957	Well, now I'm gonna have to answer that populism thing anyway. I believe that the Danish People's Party's approach to this is populist, because I imagine I am convinced that if these recordings had not come on TV 2, the text of the Danish People's Party's proposal for adoption would have looked somewhat different. Because what we are talking about here is value policy as a whole. The text that is being discussed here today does not say the Grimhøjmoskeen in the question itself. It's something that's come since then. That's what I think is populist. In relation to closing the mosque: I have said over and over again that I support shutting down the mosque if it happens on the basis of ordinary legislation, because you can go in and say that it has happened and it has been illegal, and that is why we are closing the mosque but as part of a much larger package. However, I am equally satisfied with a number of other measures which deal with the things being preached, i.e. that they are called upon to support the Islamic State and so on. etc. All the problems in the Grimhøjmosque can be easily solved, either as part of a closure of the mosque or without a closure of the mosque.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112101	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112106	Well, sir. Marcus Schmidt, I'm sorry, sir. Marcus Knuth then tells us here today that we are populists because there has been a broadcast on TV 2. But that's where I'm gonna be able to reveal to Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth, that Dansk Folkeparti has long wanted the Grimhøjmoskeen dissolved. We have made proposals on this repeatedly, and we are doing so again now on the basis of all the things that have emerged in public over time. That is why I am very surprised that the Left does not just say: Yes, here we have a party that wants it. The Social Democrats want it. It's been a little difficult to pull it out of Mr. Dan Jørgensen today, but I thought it was said anyway. Then we have a massive majority to do something that these people respect. They have no respect for sweet soup, they have no respect for the policy applied to them today. Why is it that the Left does not say: Yes, now we have the majority we need to close that mosque?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112210	Thank you. Perhaps I should say that I am informed that we have a treasured member in the Danish People's Party, named Marcus Schmidt, so it is not to offend Mr. Marcus Knuth. I guess it's settled. We will all try to say the right thing. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112223	Thank you. I was beginning to fear that it was organized bullying that was going on here. If I thought that the mosque closure with a snap would just solve the problems with the whole environment around the Grimmøjmosque, if I thought that it would solve the problems with the radical environments in Aarhus as a whole or the radical extremist environments in Denmark as a whole, then of course I wouldn't just say yes, I would cheer a yes. But the world isn't that simple, because like Mr. Dan Jørgensen said before, the problem does not lie in the bricks, the problem lies in the people who come there and who preach there, and they just want to continue, despite the fact that you close the mosque as the only measure, well to notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112310	Thank you. Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112317	Thank you. A few minutes ago, the rapporteur was lectured by Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen, I think it was about the rapporteur having a slightly more professional approach to things, contrary to what we may stand for. So I think that a professional approach is not something about looking at experience and then trying to find a solution based on the experience you have? I am surprised that the solutions, or what we hear from the rapporteur, are not based on professionalism, because as we hear, it is the case that we want more of something that has been tried in vain and yet we try it again. Is that professionalism? Is that a professional approach to things, I'm just asking? Another thing is that we keep hearing the Left and the government and a lot of people worry about this mosque, and yet you don't want to close it. It refers to the provisions of the Constitution. After all, the provisions of the Constitution open the door to trying. What else does it take to try? It seems like you're more busy explaining why you don't want to try.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112421	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112426	In terms of professionalism, I believe that it is now a more professional approach to come up with a wide range of measures, as this is a wide range of challenges. And as to whether we want to close the mosque or not, it is not the case that we want to go in and prevent it from being closed. I have said very clearly that if there is a legal basis in Danish legislation, if the police, who are also investigating this, can go in and say that because of that and that you can close the mosque, then of course we support it. It just won't solve the problem if it's all you do. The problem as a whole needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112457	Thank you. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112502	Now we hear about this wide range. I can almost hear that fan so much that I feel completely cool, but I need to hear in concrete terms what is in that range and, in particular, what new measures we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112518	Yes, as I have said very clearly: the work of the Ministry of Justice and other ministries on the rabid environments started before these television recordings came, and therefore the work will also continue at the rate that it is now running in spite of these television recordings. I will not go into the work you are doing until it is finished, but among other things. If you look at how you have succeeded in going in and hit some of the organized crime in Denmark, gang environments etc., where it is not just a matter of going and arresting a rocker when he has a gun in his hand, but also to look at all sorts of other solutions. I'm afraid I can't get it any closer right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112556	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112602	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for also trying in his speech to deal with the real question so that it is not all about a single mosque, but actually about value policy. I would like to hear very briefly because I did not really sense in the speech about the rapporteur, like those who have raised the question, that immigration is pushing and forcing us Danes to change way of life and behaviour and to correct the situation. Is that a premise that the rapporteur buys?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112632	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112635	Yes, to a certain extent I do. There have been examples to be taken care to use a few examples of organisations going in and banning a Christmas tree or banning pork, etc. We live in a free country where organisations, municipalities, etc. Of course, you have to go in and decide for yourself, but I think there have been examples of Danish values being challenged. That is, of course, why I am glad we have this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112701	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112704	Is it not also one of the values that associations, municipalities, etc. I have a small supplementary question: if we feel pressured on our values and our culture, wouldn't it be an idea to turn up the whole work on our contemporary culture, so that we don't save on cultural budgets, so that we don't get less culture, which could help strengthen our values and our community?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112733	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112736	I now think that Danish culture is quite well off. But the rapporteur is right to say that some of the threats that are against the Danish set of values, such as those of us. see here from the Grimmøjmosque, the very reason why it is people who know how to use our values against us. They know how to operate within the Danish freedom framework in a way where it is very, very difficult to hit them. That is precisely why I believe that the measures needed to hit them are somewhat more nuanced than just closing a building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112809	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304112818	Thank you. I'd like to start by saying to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, that I have actually had a few years when I didn't really have Christmas, but I feel quite Danish anyway. To the point. Denmark is a country where freedoms and democracy work better than in the vast majority of parts of the world, and we have reason to be proud of that. It hasn't come by itself. There are probably no values that only I am thinking of freedoms, which are expressed in our constitution. It is freedom of expression, it is freedom of assembly, and it is freedom of religion. I am thinking of human rights, which are laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights and which we have incorporated into Danish law the right to a fair trial, the right to family life, the prohibition of discrimination. I am thinking of the rights which the trade union movement, the left, the social democrats have fought for over the last 150 years, the right to earn a living, the right to decent working conditions, the right to organize, the right to strike for better conditions. These are some of the values that characterise Danish society and that Enhedslisten believes we must work to strengthen. In the last week's time, the focus has again been on the Grimhøjmosque and with good reason, because the attitudes expressed by imams there are completely unacceptable. They contrast with what we have fought for for generations, they are anti-humans, they must be combated, and, fortunately, the police have also announced that they will investigate whether the statements on the stoning of women and violence against children are punishable. But that is not all that needs to be done. We are hearing more and more strong voices in the public debate... strong voices with minority backgrounds, people who, among other things... working hard to put an end to reactionary women's views, which we unfortunately see in certain parts of the minority environment. We must listen to these votes, and what they say is, among other things.: Set in with information already in primary school. Make sure there are safe exit programs if young people who are radicalised want out. Support those women and, for that matter, the men who fight with the family. Make sure there are places at the shelters and, as the crisis centres have pointed out for years, make sure that there are opportunities when the stay at the shelter is over and a new life is to be created. The Grimhøjmosque is certainly not representative of all mosques in Denmark, and fortunately for it, and it is insanely dangerous when the nuances disappear in the debate. Furthermore, the Imams are not representative of all the different citizens who live in Denmark and who are Muslims. It does not change the fact that all too often we hear about that, for example. is difficult for a Muslim woman to get an Islamic divorce. In other words, we are dealing with a broader problem, a wider fight for liberation than the fight against the extremism that characterizes the Grimhøjmosque and, as I said, perhaps the most important thing we can do is to support and listen to the many men and women from the minority environment who are fighting this freedom struggle every day. Does closing the Grimhøjmosque help? It has, as it were, been a central theme of today's debate. First of all, it is hardly possible to do so within the framework of the constitution. Secondly, Østjyllands politik has explicitly announced that they think it would be the wrong way to go. So, they say that it will be harder for them to do the anti-radical work for which they are actually quite famous, even in the rest of the world, if you shut down the mosque. They say you run the risk of this extremism just crawling into the basement, or whatever to say. In addition, what if it were so easy? I mean, what if it was so amazingly easy to remove extremist attitudes by closing a building? That would be wonderful for all of us. But the positions are not in the bricks. Therefore, I almost think it is not to take the problem seriously when one then unilaterally focuses on and seems to believe that one can prevent the serious problems, or what to say, combat extremism by closing a physical building. Finally, we need an integration policy in Denmark which gives refugees and family members a chance in the labour market. We need an integration policy that does not create poverty that does not keep refugees out of the social context where they can meet Danes because they cannot afford the quota for the sports club or cannot afford the bus ticket or whatever it might be. And that is why the new poverty benefit, the so-called integration benefit, is for me to see the completely wrong way to go, because poverty creates isolation, and isolation is something of the stupidest thing to establish if the desire is integration. In the light of this, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that an immigration policy is to be pursued so that the integration task can be handled and no parallel societies arise. All citizens in Denmark must respect freedoms, gender equality and democratic principles as enshrined in law. The Folketing also notes that the government and the Folketing must work to establish communities that underpin democratic values as an alternative to the anti-democratic and extremist environments that try to undermine democracy. • • • • • • • • • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20160304113417	Thank you. This proposal, like the other two, will be included in the further discussion. Then there are a number of brief comments, first from Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304113426	First of all, I would like to turn to what Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen said about supporting the men and the women and the imams who are leading this fight. Where are they? Where are those moderate imams that we can then support? I haven't met any of them yet, but I can't wait to shake the first hand. So who is going to get that support? The second is an ultra-short question. Who does Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen think the extreme imams hold the most in this debate, Enhedslisten or Dansk Folkeparti?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304113506	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304113509	To the first, sir. Søren Espersen has heard wrong. I do not call for progressive imams to be supported. Unfortunately, I find it very difficult to see what could be called progressive imams in the public debate in Denmark. I call on you to support the many strong voices of the minority communities in Denmark who fight this freedom struggle every single day. Secondly, who keeps these extremists from, for example? Grimhøjmoskeen med, Dansk Folkeparti or Enhedslisten? Well, none of us, I guess. I certainly do not believe that extremists with a reactionary view of women are in favour of a party such as the Enhedslisten, which works for heterosexuals and homosexuals to have the same rights; who work for the liberation of women and have always done so; who, of course, and without hesitation, say that you must not beat your children; who are working for the same rights as everyone else, they must off the list of people with mental illness. It would be very strange if the Imams from the Grimhøjmosque supported those views.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304113623	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304113626	But there are still a lot of arguments from Enhedslisten as to why we should not proceed to the natural, namely according to section 78 of the Constitution. 2 and 3, to dissolve the Grimhøjmosken association. There's gonna be a whole lot of explanations as to why it probably can't be done. It just means that they have to go somewhere else and all these things. I'm just calling for an immediate action in relation to this, so it doesn't just run into the sand, as it has done all the other times, we've got proof of what's going on in that nasty mosque. I would like Enhedslisten simply to be part of this rather than inventing a whole lot of explanations as to why it cannot be done. I think this is something that I am counting on at least the Imams over there in the Grimhøjmosque are happy for, so that they have such a supportive party as the Enhedslisten here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304113719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304113722	Uh, there are also many things that I wish the Danish People's Party were just on board. In relation to immediate action, I would say that immediate action without effect is of course irrelevant. In fact, I am listening to the East Jutland Police Department when they tell the former Minister for Social Affairs, Mr. Manu Sareen, that it would be an exceptionally bad idea to close the mosque because you would risk it and it is their assumption that this radicalization work, as you might call it, will disappear into the cellars. I am listening to this, and I think that the work done by the East Jutland Police is important and good and deserves recognition. Well, somehow I wish that Mr. Søren Espersen was right, because I would really think it was wonderfully wonderful if you could remove extremist attitudes by closing a building, but I think that is naive. And I almost think it's not taking this problem seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304113830	Here you go. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen For a third round? ) Yes. Sir. Søren Espersen looked so ready. Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304113850	Thank you. The rapporteur confidently says that the Grimhøjmosque is not representative. How does the rapporteur know? The documentary sent on TV 2 yesterday was also about other mosques, and exactly the same anti-freedom messages were brought out. The second question is that it is clear that the anti-freedom positions are not in any brick, but what is the rapporteur's position on where they are then sitting and where they come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304113918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304113922	First of all, whether the Grimhøjmosque is extreme, I would like to say that it is clearly my impression that the Grimhøjmosque is extreme. Now I do not know if the Member of the Danish People's Party heard my rapporteur's speech, but I said that the problem with, for example, the problem of the European Parliament's role in the European Parliament's decisionmaking process. The reactionary view of women, unfortunately, is not confined to the Grimhøjmosque. I think it is serious when we hear reports from the environment surrounding the crisis centres that it is virtually impossible, or at least very difficult as a woman, to get an Islamic divorce. And as I said, it's not limited to the Grimhøjmosque. So that there is a need for a fight with reactionary thought, one might say, in a much broader context than just Grimmøj, I think are facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114019	Mrs. Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114022	So the Grimhøjmosque is how I see the rapporteur. I would like to say that I agree with that on a certain point. The rapporteur would not answer where the anti-freedom attitudes come from, and then I have to answer it myself: of course they come from the traditional interpretation of Islam, and that is where the problem is, and it is not only preached in Grimhøj, it is also preached elsewhere. Then I had to answer the questions myself because the rapporteur is trying to get around it. My next question is: why does the rapporteur not think it would help, so that it would send a strong signal of non-acceptance of these anti-freedom positions if we closed the Grimm Mosque, given that this is actually possible within the framework of the constitution? Why is it not a good idea if you really want to fight against anti-freedom attitudes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114120	I believe that Mrs Marie Krarup will hear exactly what Mrs Krarup wants to hear. It is certainly not my impression that the Grimhøjmosque is representative of all mosques in Denmark. It is my impression that what is going on in the Grimhøjmosque is extreme. Having said that, I say at the same time that there is also a broader problem which unfortunately characterises much more mosques in Denmark and, for example, in Denmark. is about the fact that it is very difficult for women with a Muslim background to get an Islamic divorce and that therefore the freedom struggle is broader and perhaps in reality also more important and bigger than if it was only about a few extremists in Grimmøj. Where do opinions come from? That is a very big question. At any rate, I am quite sure that opinions do not come from a brick.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114216	Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114219	It is just because the rapporteur highlighted East Jutland Police as such a form of example that we should follow, and what I think is a little strange is that East Jutland Police has done a lot of talking about working with the Grimmøjmoskeen. I just don't think that's exactly reassuring, I have to say, after watching those broadcasts. By the way, I would like to ask another question. With regard to the matter of creeping into the basement, I would say that these positions are in the basement. That's what these broadcasts have shown that they are at basement level, while when we get up to ground floor level in relation to the surrounding society and the media, you have that friendly, community-maintaining agenda where you want to work with the authorities. But I would like to ask questions about both East Jutland Police and the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114318	As far as the East Jutland Police are concerned, I would like to say that they have quite clearly resigned, in fact in writing, as far as I remember, to the former Minister for Social Affairs, Mr. Manu Sareen that it is believed that it will make the work of anti-radicalisation and de-radicalisation more difficult if you close the mosque. In addition, both the Socialists and the Left have actually expressed some of the same things from the platform today, which makes me happy, namely that the work to combat the kind of attitudes represented by the Imams in the Grimhøjmosque and, above all, to combat the social control that is at risk in the wake of it is simply much bigger and much harder than just closing a mosque and the problem is solved. I almost find it irresponsible when the Danish People's Party, with such a whole group represented in the Danish Parliament, is all standing here claiming that problems with extremist attitudes can be solved by closing a building. Anyway, it would be incredibly delicious for all of us if it were true. It is not, it is populism.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114434	Sir. Krarup. Excuse me, sir. Christian Langballe, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114438	One can, of course, make oneself progressive and visionary in relation to that issue and then come up with a new integration plan. There have been so many of them, a couple and twenty, haven't there? I do not think we have come very far. I think it has actually been quite miserable, and in this way I think it would be very good in relation to this extremism, that we in the Folketing or politicians are beginning to take seriously what we are dealing with, and that means that we are closing down these religions. I am quite sure that this is something that you will be able to understand in these environments to a much greater extent than such a general circle teaching. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114520	An imam can walk 100 m down the road and make a new association or don't make an association and just say: Shall we meet at my house and preach the same hatred? Frankly, it is naive, and it is too important a problem to allow oneself to be so naive. What is to be done? As I said in my speech, I think that one of the most important things we can do to support this freedom struggle is to listen to those voices that fight this fight every day, and some of what they point to is early enlightenment, and that is support and help and ways out to the young people who are actually fighting these battles.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114608	Sir. Peter Skaarup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114612	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen says that Mr. Christian Langballe is naive. In fact, I do not think it helps much in a debate like this to adjective each other. I really think that Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen and the Enhedslisten should instead participate constructively, not only in debates but also in action, in relation to the profoundly subversive, it is for our society that we have mosques, not only the Grimmøjmosque, but also other mosques who preach the things that go against what we stand for in Danish society in terms of integration, respect for the sexes, respect for our courts, law, police, etc. etc. I think Enhedslisten should be involved in fighting for this too in action. Because it is very easy to say some fine words in some debates, but it just does not change very much in relation to the state of the people who listen to the Imams for some. There is only one question I would like to ask, Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen: when do we see the Enhedslisten making proposals and supporting proposals in the Folketing that fight the extreme imams we see in the mosques?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114733	To what I say with adjectives and the word naive, I really think it is naive to think that one can solve as serious a problem as it is that there are environments in which extremist views about the stoning of women and the fact that it is okay to use violence, to beat children are widespread. I really think it is naive to think that you can solve those problems by closing a building, because there is nothing to prevent the people who preach that hatred from going two houses further down the road and preaching the same hatred. On the other hand, I am very pleased that the East Jutland Police of their own motion will take up the matter in relation to these imams and examine whether their statements are punishable, i.e. whether they can be prosecuted, whether they can be regarded as an invitation to violence. In fact, action must be taken, I would say to Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup. Action is needed. There should not just be fine words and empty messages, such as pretending to solve some problems by tearing down a house. Action is needed. And I spend a lot of time talking to the people who are taking the freedom struggles in these environments. Some of the actions they want and demand have been read out in my speech today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114902	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114904	But does not Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen see it as a problem that the people we are talking about here and TV 2 have fortunately heard what they say to their congregation? After all, they are very happy to enter into a debate and sometimes say some fine words on the way out of the door, also to Enhedslisten, but in fact say something quite different when they face their congregation and those they have to advise and to whom they are authorities? Doesn't Enhedslisten see that as a problem? Can the Enhedslisten not see it through and believe that it is not enough to debate it in the open space, but that it is also important that we really put action behind the words? For that is the only thing that those people respect, not only in Denmark, but also in other countries. After all, it is people who support the Islamic State and call for the killing of Jews, calling for the killing of Danish soldiers. Remember that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304114958	Yeah, that's a gigantic problem. I have not heard anyone say that they think it is good or sensible or anything that there are imams like those in the Grimhøjmosque who preach it hatred. I have heard everyone say that it was disastrous! And yes, action is needed. It takes action that works. And because there is a need for action that works, I find it rather sad that the Danish People's Party spends so much gunpowder on something empty pop, namely trying to deceive people that you solve such a serious problem by closing a building. On the other hand, I think that we share the opinion of the Danish People's Party. Yes, I can't actually remember if we do that in relation to the fact that it also matters what kind of signals you send from in here. I find it very unfortunate that the top of Danish society, including the royal family, is shaking hands with the Saudi regime with the signals that it is now sending both to the peoples of the Middle East and to the minority environments in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115106	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115108	Thank you, President. Tom pop is being said. Well, I think there is a tendency that when the media uncover the terrible things that we can see happening in the parallel societies that are in Denmark, there are a lot of words about that a whole lot must happen. And when the media moves away again, nothing really happens. In 2014 Imam Abu Bilal said: Allah, destroy all the Zionist Jews. They're no challenge to you. And he said, Count them, and kill them all. Spare none of them. Make them suffer horribly. There was, of course, also, as there are when such quotes come out, a lot of rebellion about what is going on in, for example. The ugly mosque. Since then they have been able to continue their work, and now TV 2 has uncovered the atrocities that are still taking place. And what does Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen say? She says it is empty pop to say that we now have to do something about the Grimhøjmosque, and to say that we are not going to put up with it anymore. She says it's empty pop. I can also ask in another way: if we recognise that attitudes are not in bricks but are in people, does Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen regret that in the year 2000 the Danish society gave Abu Bilal exactly citizenship? Was it a mistake when you can now see what he has stood for, what he is preaching to Danes and to people with foreign backgrounds to make them fundamentalist in their performances?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115228	It is quite true that there is nothing new in the fact that there are imams preaching hatred, and in this way it can be said that the broadcast series produced by TV 2 unfortunately does not tell any news. Well, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is quite right in saying that many times before, including from the Grimhøjmoskeen, we have seen that there are imams preaching a human vision which contrasts with democracy, which is contrary to the liberation of women, and which contrasts with the freedoms that I and the Enhedslisten work to strengthen. When I say that closing the mosque is empty pop, it's because I just don't think it's gonna solve anything. Well, I think this problem is much more complicated than you can solve it by closing a building. And I miss an answer to the question that says: what do you do when the same imams move two houses further down the road or just sit in the living room or in the kitchen and preach the same hatred? I think it's absolutely crucial to listen to the people who work with this every single day who work with this freedom struggle every single day. And I would say that I and Enhedslisten have done this continuously. I am sure that some of the many talented young people would also very much like to meet Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115352	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115355	I have heard that answer sometimes during the debate, and that is why I tried to move the debate one step further with a question about whether Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen and others in this Chamber can see the wrong thing in the year 2000 when we give citizenship to a person like Abu Bilal who has called for the killing of Jews and who has now been exposed again by TV 2 in his atrocities, in his double-playing. Well, at some point, something must start to happen. Someone has to start reacting to the information that is coming, so you start acting differently than you have in the past. Now we can only note that such a person, who preaches what he is doing and tries to maintain parallel societies, is trying to maintain that people should base themselves on Sharia law instead of the rules and laws of Danish society, got citizenship by the year 2000. Was it a mistake that he got it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115444	I don't know his history of citizenship. He must have lived up to the Danish law for quite a long time in order to obtain citizenship. I am very pleased that the Østjyllands Politiken is now assessing whether these statements can be regarded as a call for violence. For there is no doubt that when such statements are made, society must assess whether they are punishable and whether they can be regarded as an invitation to violence against women and children. I would say, as we are now at the police, because the Danish People's Party usually listens a lot to the police and has it in some way as a matter of priority: now that the East Jutland Police state very clearly that they actually think it would be an obstacle to their work on radicalisation, if they managed to close the Grimhøjmoskeen, why isn't one listening to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115551	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115558	Christmas is the symbol of values such as generosity, neighbourly love, peace, while Ramadan is a symbol of Islam, whose values are preached in these mosques, as we have seen in the television shows, including among others. That it's okay to beat women. I know that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen prefers the message of Christmas. She prefers peace and happiness and tolerance and things like that. But what puzzles me a little when I listen to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen is that her solution is to listen. Her solution is not to do anything. Is the truth not that it is due to misunderstood consideration of what one perceives as a minority and that, therefore, in all these years on the Enhedslisten, one has not wanted to do anything and that is why these extreme environments, extreme Islamic environments, have been allowed to grow big in the shadow of the social debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115702	I'm glad we're back for Christmas. I think it is... No, I want to start by saying that, as I said, I feel quite Danish, even though I have had a few years when I didn't really get to celebrate Christmas. It may say something about how you can be Danish in many different ways, and that it is not the case that it is only just if you have danced around that Christmas tree that you are really Danish. I have to say that I think it is actually very rabid that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen here has made such a coupling, which is called that if you hold ramadan, you go in for hitting women. Oh, my God, there are millions of people in the world who are in favour of hitting women. Of course, as a human being, you should be allowed to decide for yourself whether you want to celebrate Christmas or not, or whether you want to hold Ramadan or whatever you want. Now this debate is about Danish values. In fact, it is one of the hallmarks of Danish values that we have the freedom to choose for ourselves, that there will not be some state and put a religion down our throats.I would like to see us separated church and state, but it is another talk and that there are no politicians who force us to celebrate Christmas or not to hold Christmas or keep Ramadan or not keep Ramadan. In terms of listening: we have to listen to action and those I listen to and want to act on the basis of are, in fact, some of the young men and women who every day take some pretty tough fights with some of the imams who preach a woman's vision that is deeply reactionary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115838	Sir. Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115840	The rapporteur does not answer the questions, completely derails the debate and does not listen to what is being asked. Now I try another question, and then I might get a proper answer this time. The rapporteur will not help close these rabid mosques because it is a building we then close. But it would make their work more difficult if they had to find a new building every time. It's not something you just do in one night. A new lease must be found or a new building must be purchased. Secondly, there is radicalisation already in these buildings today. So even if we try to listen to relevant people, this radicalization is going on in the cellars. Firstly, if we close them, do we make it difficult, and secondly, radicalisation is already taking place, so why not act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304115943	Let me start with the Constitution, because I believe that a study or another study of whether it would be in accordance with the Constitution to close the Grimhøjmosque would come to the conclusion that it would not be. In my view, freedom of assembly and the right to organise themselves in associations, etc. quite fundamental to Danish society. Would this make radicalization more difficult? Nah, maybe it would create martyrs and thus create a better breeding ground for radicalisation. I want to act crazy, and I also think that the police should get on the ground in these cases. I think the police should take action every time there are people calling for violence. I understand that they are already in the process of being, if I may say so. I think that is a good thing. In addition, I think we should act in ways that work. Those people who actually take these fights every day say, as I said, strengthen the shelters. Make sure that there are also opportunities after the stay at the shelters. Start early with information. Make exit programs. In the extreme cases where young men or women need police protection, ensure that there are resources for this. I would very much like to make such a package with the Danish People's Party, where we set aside resources to strengthen the very, very important work that it is to support this freedom struggle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120124	I have to say, for the sake of good order, that you have 1 minute in the first round of short remarks and 30 seconds in the second round. The next short remark is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120134	Thank you. I know, of course, that the Enhedslisten is a party which, at least externally, is very concerned about equality here in Danish society, equality between men and women at all. Let's just hold on to it. If that is correct, I would like to say that the Enhedslisten will have to take a very clear position on whether it is acceptable that, for example, we should be able to do so. which imam advises women not to enter the labour market, for there are other men, just as we have seen an imam guide a woman who says she has been beaten by her husband, not to go to the police. I think that, in the name of equality at least, is an extremely important example which I think should be addressed, but it is also an expression of some very terrible attitudes here in Danish society, which we simply need to take very drastic measures to get rid of, and therefore also to the extent that mosques who express themselves as hateful as they have been with the Grimmhøjmosque. Can we not see from the Enhedslisten that this is also very much about what should really be the heart of Enhedslisten, namely gender equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120301	Yes, it is very much about gender equality. Now Mrs Marlene Harpsøe of the Danish People's Party says that the Enhedslisten is in favour of gender equality. We go both externally and internally and up and down and to the right and to the left and everywhere in favour of equality. In fact, I think that this freedom struggle is considerably greater than just, if I may say so, the one centering on the extremes of the Grimhøjmosque. It goes without saying that talking about stoning is completely insane and is contrary to everything that can be said about Danish society through generations is built up. But I think it is at least as serious that it is broader than the mosques in Denmark, for example. is a very small degree of acceptance of female Islamic divorce. So this is an insanely important fight for equality and freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120412	Mrs. Harpsoe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120413	It is as if the Enhedslisten is closing their eyes to reality. You really want to do a lot for well-educated women who would like to have some board positions in Danish companies, but as soon as that applies to Muslim women and their freedom struggle, their zeal and the quest for equality, jobs, but also to a great extent legal certainty, because this is also the issue here, you are on Enhedslisten's side somewhat bent, so you are very subdued. I do not know if it is because you are afraid to step on your toes, but I must ask Enhedslisten to get into the fight for once to ensure that these Muslim women live a dignified life here in Denmark, where they are not demeaned to housewives who just have to put up with not being allowed to enter the labour market or be beaten on, as Enhedslisten saw, instead of fighting for well-trained women.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120515	Now Mrs Harpsøe says that it is as if Enhedslisten is closing her eyes. I think it is more as if Mrs Harpsøe has completely closed her ears and not even listened to what is going on in this debate or in the last few years in the public debate or forgot to understand what Enhedslisten is for a party. Indeed, we are a party for which the fight for equal rights between men and women is absolutely fundamental. I do not know how much time Mrs Marlene Harpsøe spends discussing with women in the minority environments in Denmark what we can do to strengthen the liberation struggle. I spend some time on it, because I think they have some pretty good thoughts about what to do. And one of their points, I would say to Mrs Harpsøe, is to strengthen the crisis centres and to strengthen the initiatives that need to be taken when you are finished at the crisis centre. They point to strengthening exit programmes, they point to strengthening efforts in the area of education at primary school level. If the Danish People's Party wants to take the equality struggle so seriously that you want to take those battles and make those proposals with us, I would think it was absolutely fantastic. I know there are a lot of women in these minority environments who find it very difficult to spot the Danish People's Party in the freedom struggle for them, because they are among other things. I have to say that women with a scarf must not stand on the platform where I am standing right now. I think that is to shut some women out of the democratic community rather than fight a freeing-up struggle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120653	The next brief remark is Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120657	Thank you. Now it may be because of my lack of experience with debates in this Chamber, but I simply find it difficult to follow the rapporteur entirely. Some questions are asked, and then the answer is in a different direction. So now I'm a little daring, now I'm gonna keep going off this trail. It is the case that during all the years I have been politically active, I have attended political meetings around, and at many of these meetings, where there have been controversial speakers or whatever it has been, I have noticed activists from the extreme left who have demonstrated sometimes peacefully, and sometimes not so peacefully. We have been photographed by various groups and it has been very unpleasant. One thing that puzzles me when everyone knows that the Enhedslisten is very politically active is: How can it be that we never see the left wing demonstrate in front of mosques when there is one harsh statement after another? It's not just about little things, it's dead over it and death over Jews and the stoning of women and what we have. Well, there's plenty to demonstrate courage when it comes to the Grimhøjmosque. Why have Enhedslisten and Enhedslisten's like-minded never stood there and demonstrated?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120806	As far as I know, it wasn't many weeks ago that there was an event at the Grimhøjmoskeen... it may be that I remember the wrong place where Enhedslisten naturally attended. But in addition, I can tell you that for years demonstrations have been arranged by the Enhedslisten against e.g. Hizb ut-Tahrir, I also think at a time when the rest of the Danish Parliament took very little interest in it. The questioner from the Danish People's Party is quite right in saying that we, as a society and as citizens, also have a duty to try to combat such attitudes. And just as I think it has been very sensible that we have historically seen torch parade, where people meet and sing etc., when Nazis have gathered together for meetings in Denmark, it is clear that such activities and popular protests are also important when it is extremist Islamists who preach hatred.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120910	Sir. Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120912	I'm glad if for once I'm wrong. All I know is that it's a very, very widespread perception in, I think, virtually all of us who have participated in this type of event, to have this common amazement: where's the left? They have a fight and they have a tradition of being critical of religion, but we all agree as one that we never see the extreme left or the left. But if it's me and us that's wrong, then I'll be happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304120943	As I said, for years the Enhedslisten has been organizing protests against, for example. Hizb ut-Tahrir, who stands for the very opposite of what Enhedslisten stands for. Now I know that in the Danish People's Party there are members who think that it is okay to beat children as part of the child education. I think that is reprehensible. We fight these kinds of attitudes. They are contrary to our policy. I think it is also very unfortunate that the government is being sent out when they go down and hug the royal house from Saudi Arabia in a situation where people are being executed at the same time. It is contrary to everything that Enhedslisten stands for, to pursue that kind of policy. So, of course, Enhedslisten is fighting extremist Islamists. They stand for the completely opposite view of human beings of what we stand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304121042	Thank you. No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Liberal Alliance. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304121058	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this inquiry debate, which at least in the public debate has been updated by TV 2's documentary programmes • The mosques behind the veil • Although no informed person should be surprised by the programmes. Religious rules, which are above worldly law, call for violence against children, women who are sent back to their abusers, nothing is unfortunately surprising. In relation to the debate on Danish values, particularly in relation to immigration, I have to say that the Liberal Alliance wants Denmark to be an open society where diligent, law-abiding, democratic immigrants can come to Denmark and take part in our social and working life. But we must recognise that we have a problem, both with the hypocritical Islamists, but unfortunately also with a much larger group of Muslims in Denmark who understand the views expressed by Islamists. Fortunately, there are also plenty of moderate Muslims. We're gonna ally with them, and they're gonna ally with us. That way we can do something, but it takes many more things. First of all, it requires that the current debate should not end with a bodegabrok but that it should end with concrete actions and solutions. We must stand firm on our own values, both in words and in deeds. Freedom, freeness, the absence of abuse, human equality and human equality, self-reliance, no acceptance of crime and no acceptance of those who will oppose the rule of the people. There must be full freedom of expression for all, including for those with whom we disagree. But I would like to make it clear that it is no human right for foreigners to settle in Denmark if the purpose is to commit crime or to undermine democracy. We need to look at the cash flows of associations, whether money is being given from public funds for rogue purposes, we need to go after illegal acts, both of individuals and of associations. Of course, people who call for violence against children can only distance themselves from it. These are calls for unlawful acts and acts of violence against people, and they are worthy of punishment. We must drop support for covert integration projects, in which, in reality, the opposite of what we want, parallel societies, rather than integration and participation is promoted. We must look at the supervision of free schools, also in relation to the requirement of freedom and government, so that we ensure that democracy and freedom are not taught in free schools that receive support under Danish law. This has been said by a rapporteur from a party who values Danish free school tradition very much and has even fought in the latest Finance Act for more money for free schools. We must drop the special lenient residence rules for religious ministers. Why should it be particularly easy to get into Denmark just because you come and want to preach a religious message, and we must always help those who need protection against attackers and oppressors. And then we have to be honest about limits on how many people we can integrate into Danish society. The situation of large numbers of refugees at the moment requires immediate international or European solutions, but until they arrive, we need to be determined and deal with the number with national solutions. It is not the best, it is not our favourite solution, but it is necessary until the European Union secures its external borders and until the great powers provide peace in Syria. Then we must be honest about what needs to be better at integrating, because in addition to the values it also requires that more people are associated with Danish society and the Danish labour market. The combination of integration pay and lower tax at the bottom is a prerequisite for creating enough jobs for those who do not have so many qualifications. We also need to be better at pairing companies' lack of labour with the people who are actually gaining asylum. But first and last, we need a Muslim youth uprising. It's already under way. There are many good voices, both in the public debate and specifically in the families and in the environment. We must support them, and we must support them. We must help them to combat the greatest totalitarian threat of our time and our generation, namely Islamism, which must be fought just as hard and consistently as we have fought fascism, Nazism and Communism in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304121610	Thank you to the rapporteur. One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304121615	Thank you. I understand the rapporteur's speech that we will not be supporting the dissolution of the Grimhøjmosque under Paragraph 78, but that we are very keen to be firm and active and lovers of freedom, etc. I would, of course, like to give my cadeau to the latter, but what does the rapporteur think about the attempt to look at the right or lack of the Grimhøjmoskeen to preach according to section 67 of the Constitution, which says that one has freedom of religion, but that nothing is taught... Is it okay that one preaches the stoning of women, that women cannot get divorce, that polygamy is in order etc.? For I sense a really strong desire to be able to act and do something against the message of freedom. Will the rapporteur be taking part in a new question on another paragraph of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304121725	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304121726	As I said, it is very important to be concrete, which is why it is not just about decisiveness. I think I made 14 specific proposals on how to do things differently from what we are doing today. This must be the most concrete speech that has been made so far. In relation to the Grimhøjmosque and the like, I actually believe that one of the things I said was that we should go for illegal practices, both in people and in associations. I cannot support the Danish People's Party's proposal as it stands today, but it may well be the right thing to look at whether the Grimmøjmosque can be dissolved if it does not comply with the provisions of the Constitution in relation to associations. I have been the spokesman for this in the past in relation to Hizb ut-Tahrir and others, so we are certainly not afraid of touching. However, we want to have a dialogue with the government as to whether it is possible to look at and examine whether there is such a basis. We want to be part of that, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304121825	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304121827	Thank you. I am glad to hear that, but I would also like to know whether it would be possible to use section 67 of the Constitution, which states precisely that a religion should not be preached that directly conflicts with public order. I do not think it is particularly appropriate to stone women or allow polygamy in Denmark. I am glad that the Liberal Alliance has the attitude that we should defend freedom and that we should not be so tolerant that we allow the accepted full cadeau to do so. But why don't you go for this place, where we now have all these revelations, and then use the means we have to do it now, to become so concrete?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304121913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304121914	I still believe that, in the end, it is up to the courts to decide whether or not to comply with the law and not with the Folketing. That is why our starting point is that we would like the government to look into the situation in relation to the Grimhøjmoskeen, also following on from the discussion that has taken place in recent days.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304121938	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304121955	Frankly, I feel somewhat ambivalent about the debate we are having here today. On the one hand, I am very pleased that we will have the opportunity to have a general discussion on value policy and Danish values. On the other hand, it annoys me that this debate must be taken from a premise that immigration is pushing and forcing the Danes to change their way of life, as the question text says, because it is not an image that we recognise in the alternative. In the alternative, we basically have room for everyone, and it is a very central value of our society that everyone should be treated with dignity, with respect and tolerance, regardless of ethnic or religious background. When we talk about Danish values, it is also difficult to avoid words such as solidarity, humanism and empathy. These are values which have been created over time and which help to promote a culture and a society in which inclusiveness and diversity are the main ingredients together with, among other things, freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. Now I am wearing my ordinary glasses today, but if I put on my historical glasses, it is quite clear to me that although Denmark is a very small country, we have always been a great nation when it has been about democratic values such as freedom, freedom and the rights of minorities both in Denmark, in Europe and in the world. For example: Denmark was the first country to remove homosexuality from the list of mental illnesses back in 1981. It was 9 years before the WHO, and I'm actually glad because I don't see myself as sick. In 1989 we again took the lead when, as the first country, we allowed homosexuals to enter into a registered partnership, and who knows, we may also be one of the first to remove transsexuals from the list of diseases, as the alternative, together with other parties, is working on in the Folketing. The point is that for many years we in Denmark have had a proud tradition that all people should be allowed to live just as they want to, whether they are heterosexual or homosexual, wearing calot or cap, or pray to God or Allah. That is why we do not recognise the underlying premise in this question debate that Danish values are under pressure and that the Danes are forced to change their way of life as a result of immigration. On the contrary, we believe that the most important Danish values are precisely that we as a society are able to accommodate, integrate and celebrate diversity in society. Diversity is a strength of democracy, a strength that does not divide but brings us together. Everyone does not need to be the same, but we insist that everyone must and must respect the democratic values and rules of the game that our country stands for. For inexplicable reasons, if you can't find a way to live up to those rules, fortunately we have a well-functioning judiciary to deal with that sort of thing. Fortunately, this is not a problem for the vast majority of the people who come to Denmark. It is all those who behave properly and respect freedom of diversity. They are the ones who take part weekly in society and social activities, and they are the ones who contribute solidarity to the community by going to school, to work, paying their taxes, etc. I am not saying that there can be no challenges with people coming to the country. That's what happens when people from different cultures meet, for example. when refugees arrive in Denmark with war traumas, which must be integrated and get a normal everyday life up and running in a whole new country. But there must be room for everyone, and everyone must meet with dignity and respect. These are Danish values when they are best in my optics. Last but not least, I would like to say that today's debate can almost give rise to the belief that culture and value are static sizes that never develop, and I certainly hope that that is not the intention, because culture and values are dynamic. It is something that we build within the community over time, and it is something that develops continuously in line with the rest of society. Just think of how the Danish food culture has evolved from the fact that we almost only saw gravy, potatoes and pigs on the fork, yes, so today we get pancakes, pizza and pasta. It shows very well that culture is not something we can legislate for, whether it is about meatballs or Christmas tree parties. Culture and values are something that arises, is created and shaped over time in the encounter with people and other cultures, religions and traditions, and the same can be said of the values I mentioned earlier. That is why I would appeal to us to remember precisely the values we have built up over time: inclusiveness, tolerance, empathy and freedom to differ when we discuss today the proposalers' claim that Danish values are threatened by the growing diversity of society. As I said, we do not agree with the alternative, and with these words I will conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304122502	Some have asked for brief comments. The first, with a brief comment, is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304122509	Thank you. It was, in my view, a disturbing speech, disturbing, because it is so idealistic and hovering up in the pink clouds, and because it does not relate to reality at all. I noticed one thing in particular, as the rapporteur said, namely that we should be allowed to live as we please. Is this also true of the imams that have been revealed by TV 2? Does this also apply to the instructions given by the Imams to women and men who believe in Islamic laws and who work against everything that the rapporteur stands and speaks in favour of: tolerance, peace, love, empathy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304122607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304122608	Firstly, I would like to say that it may well be that it was highly glittering, but I have actually tried to deal with the question debate that has been called for, and not all sorts of other things. It is No, of course I do not think that people should live at the expense of other people, that people should be able to preach at the expense of other people's freedom. That is why I am also saying that, fortunately, we have a very good judicial system which can deal with those things, can go in and investigate it, and if something is said here that is contrary to the law, then of course it needs to be dealt with. That is the role of the courts. It's not our role.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304122648	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304122650	So there are limits to even the tolerance of the alternative, and thus one must also assume that they, together with the Danish People's Party, will do something to follow up on what is happening in the mosques around Denmark and in the Islamic environments. What will the alternative actually do to counteract and combat the intolerance that is taking place in the Islamic environments of the mosques, as has been revealed by TV 2?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304122725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304122727	As I said very clearly in my speech and also just repeated earlier, it is of course the courts that set the framework for whether something violates Danish law. And yes, our limit goes by Danish legislation. If you make statements that go beyond the framework of Danish legislation, yes, someone must be judged. We do not believe that closing a mosque is a solution; we believe that we should work actively together through the democratic and cultural channels we have. That is why we would rather be inspired by countries such as Italy, which is using culture very actively, to say: how can we then bring about the integration of radicalised people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304122806	The next brief remark is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304122810	Thank you, President. Something that struck me when I heard the alternative rapporteur's speech here was, of course, that in relation to that speech Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen was almost moderate, that is, she faced at least some challenges: that the Danish values can almost be described as being under some form of pressure in one way or another. I think I must give that respect to the rapporteur's speech. But the rapporteur's speech by the alternative simply did not acknowledge the premise that Danish values are under pressure. Well, I'm gonna have to ask sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, if he has seen the documentary programmes TV 2 has brought over the last few days, and if he does not believe that Danish values are under pressure on that basis. Otherwise, I'd like to invite Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist on coffee so we can watch the documentary broadcasts together and then discuss whether Danish values are not under pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304122855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304122857	Do we have a serious problem when we see things like that going on in the Grimhøjmosque? Yeah. Are Danish values generally under pressure throughout society? No, I don't think they are. I don't think we can say that they are. Should we work together and intensively to combat the forms of utterances and the forms of preaching that take place in a place such as: The ugly mosque? Yeah, we are. Fortunately, that is why we have democratic channels, and that is also why, as I said to the party comrade of the questioner, I think we should start using our culture much more actively and, among other things, more actively. Let us look at good countries such as Italy, which is using culture to say: what is it that we can achieve cohesion in our society? We need to look at that, we need to do more of that. Besides, I like to drink coffee and keep talking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304122948	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304122949	But that is a very extreme point of view, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist here presents. We can discuss the Grimhøjmosque, and that is what we are doing in the debate we have today. An imam, Bilal, at the Grimhøjmoskeen called in 2014 for the killing of Jews, and he is now exposed on TV 2 in having played double games, namely to say one thing to the public and in fact wish Sharia law implemented in the parallel society that he helps to represent, contrary to Danish rules and Danish laws. One of the things that the TV 2 documentary reveals is that not only does it apply to the Grimhøjmoskeen, but that it is the general picture when they go around also in other mosques and uncover the conditions. Then you get the same message. It is against this background that I will have to ask Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist: Isn't it a more general problem in these parallel societies that have been built up in Danish society, and can Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist does not see that it is also something that challenges Danish values?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123046	First of all, the questioner says very clearly that in violation of Danish laws. If this is contrary to Danish law, then it is illegal, and there we have police and courts dealing with this sort of thing. When we talk about creating integration when we talk about culture in it, about there being some parts of society that we feel live in parallel societies, that is, next to the breadth we have, well then we have to use other means for it. It's social and it's cultural. That is why I have to say again, as I asked the rapporteur of the Left when he was on the floor, that I do not understand why, if you are worried about Danish values and Danish culture, at the same time you choose to cut culture as strongly as you do, because culture is precisely helping to create cohesion in society and helping to develop our society together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123134	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123137	Thank you. I also stumbled at the fact that the rapporteur does not recognise the premise that Danish values are under pressure. Does the rapporteur live on the back of the moon? Has the rapporteur not heard of the Mohammed crisis? Has the rapporteur not discovered that there are politicians and Islamic critics who today have to live under police protection? Has the rapporteur seen the safety apparatus that has been set up just here at Christiansborg? Has the rapporteur heard of all the measures to be taken in swimming pools and kindergartens, etc. etc., or does the rapporteur live on the back of the moon? That wasn't my question, because I guess he doesn't. He's probably just living in his own unrealistic fog. But one specific question: does the rapporteur think that it is okay for people to preach the introduction of polywry in Denmark? Can it be accommodated within the concept of diversity of the alternative? Because that is what we have seen, namely that newcomers are told in these mosques that these women must accept that they become one in four wives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123253	First, I can tell the questioner that I live at Nørrebro in Copenhagen. Secondly, I have to say that when I stand and make a speech, I am addressing the question that is under discussion, and it says that Danish values are under pressure because of immigration. I do not recognise that premise. To the last question, I can just say: of course it is not okay to preach things that are against the very values on which Danish society is based. If it's illegal, the courts and the police will have to step in. If it is not illegal, then we must work on it through our social and cultural channels.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123333	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123334	Should I understand the rapporteur's view that Danish values are under pressure, but that this is not due to immigration or how? I think that, for example, we should be able to do something about it. The Mohammed crisis is due to immigration. I don't think anyone had lifted an eyebrow over a drawing of Muhammad in the 1970s, in the 1960s. It would never have turned into a case. I do not believe that Islam critics had needed police protection until we had a massive third-world immigration. So I do not understand how it can be that the rapporteur cannot recognise that there is pressure on Danish values and that, of course, it has a connection with immigration of a foreign culture and region.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123424	If no one had lifted an eyebrow if the drawings had been printed in the 1970s, perhaps it could also be because information could not be disseminated as quickly all over the world in the 1970s as it could, after all, in the '00s with the technological developments that have taken place in the world. So, yes, the world has become smaller. It also makes more people react to what happens in several places on earth. I think it is really important when we discuss this with the fact that we are under pressure, to say that yes, we are under pressure if we are afraid of developments. I think we need to look at our society and our culture and our values, the contemporary culture. As I also mentioned in the speech, it is not a static size. It's a dynamic size. So how can we stick to what we think is important in the values that we value in our society, and at the same time, of course, let it inspire and evolve over time, as all cultures have done?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123513	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123515	It makes a huge impression on me when I see on a television show that an imam guides a woman who has problems because she gets beat up at home by her husband to go back home to the same man who beats her. It makes a huge impression on me. The rapporteur keeps on talking about dignity and respect in her speech, and so I would like to hear from the alternative rapporteur whether the alternative believes that Muslim women, who are asked by an imam to go home to their violent man, are met with dignity and respect? Is it dignity and respect that they experience?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123607	I cannot understand why Mrs Marlene Harpsøe needs to ask that question, because no, of course it is not. Nobody in this room speaks for that. Surely no one is advocating that it is dignified or in order to stand and tell people to put up with getting beaten up by nobody. So I do not understand where that question comes from at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123629	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123630	Well, that's exactly what I'm gonna say to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist, because the alternative chooses to hover on a pink cloud rather than to make real announcements in relation to what to do. 'Cause I feel like sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, that is, of course, it is not okay for there to be an imam guiding a woman to go back home to her violent husband and, by the way, not to go to the police. It is precisely to this extent to keep Muslim women in a home where they may live with beatings daily. And I just wish that the alternative were a little more sharp than what you really want to do for this group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123714	There are a number of things we will do. Is it good enough just to go in and let that mosque and think this poor woman isn't gonna know the same thing somewhere else? No. That is why we need to ensure that these women have an independent life and can go out and make choices. This is not done, for example, by means of this integration benefit, which the questioner has helped to create. So we have plenty of suggestions on how to create an inclusive and good society. We don't believe it's happening through the closure of a mosque.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123741	Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123743	It was a big game of hallelujah humanism, I would say. The thing is, when we discuss this here, that the alternative does not recognise that the Danish values are under pressure. That is simply the starting point. You don't. That's good. There's nothing wrong. Everything's working fine. There are some imams that call for stoning, but that is to say that they can also be tolerated. They can also get into that inclusive community. And then I would like to say to you that you want to set up dialogue groups and that you want to go in and work together and talk together and use the different cultures, that well well, that has been done for years. Well, that's what you've done! It's exactly the alternative's solution that just collapses these years. When those who imam out in the Grimhøjmosque turn to the public, they are oh, so tolerant. Danish society is lovely. And then when they speak privately or in secret, it is with a completely different agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123902	It was a great trip we had taken there, even far away from some of what I've been saying up here at all. And I really think that is a pity for the debate. Did I tell you everything's going well? No. Do I recognise that Danish values are under pressure because of immigration? No. That is the basic premise of this discussion. Do we recognise that Danish values are under pressure because of immigration? No, we don't. What are we going to do about it? We'll do a lot of things about it. I have not actually mentioned anything about groups of conversations, I have talked about the fact that, for example, we need to use culture much more actively in our society, precisely because it helps to create integration, it helps to create a community, and it helps to create a contemporary culture that holds us all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123946	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304123947	Well, I can only understand that we simply do not share assumptions, because we look at reality completely differently. In other words, when the alternative believes that the veil is such a cultural feature instead of viewing it as what it is, namely a strong women's oppressive symbol, when you are not allowed to eat meatballs, the meatball in itself is of course indifferent, but it is just a sign that pureness, religious purity ideas have now gained ground in many institutions, where you have to say to little Ole: Well, dear friend, you know what, you cannot get pork because there are some who think it is unclean. I mean, we simply do not share the prerequisites. I think that the Danish values are really under pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304124028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304124030	Yes, I have also sensed that it is the author's party that has raised this question as to whether the values are under pressure. But I do not think that Danish values are under pressure because there are some institutions that make pragmatic solutions because they have a broad group of children and they have to live up to finding out what kind of food they should have. For me it is actually quite Danish that one pragmatically asks: how can we make sure that everyone can join this kindergarten and then those children who very much want meatballs can probably get them at night. Why do we have to eat meatballs morning, dinner and evening, when the educators say: we can solve something pragmatically here. The veil is not necessarily women's oppressive to me, but it is women's oppressive if women are forced to wear it. But it is not the veil in itself that suppresses anything at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304124116	Sir. Søren Espersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304124119	I understood from what was said that we at least agree on one thing, and that is that the Grimhøjmosque and the messages that come from it are not acceptable. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the alternative: why is it that we do not want to close it? The explanations that it'll probably come somewhere else aren't proper. If you now discover an illegal gambling room or an illegal paedophilia association or an organizer of dog fighting somewhere, you let it be, because otherwise it'll just come somewhere else. Is that the logic of it, that is, if you see something like that, you just leave it there, because it's probably gonna turn up somewhere else? That is a strange argument, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304124201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304124201-2	Actually, I thought it was this question that was really weird. Are we gonna stand in here and close a mosque? No, we have courts for that. I know that the police have already gone into this matter, and I think that is very good, because it is also to me Danish values that the police are going into a case, and afterwards you can see that there is an opportunity to raise this case in the courts, the courts can decide on it. If we then want the courts to judge differently, then we have to legislate in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304124227	Sir. Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304124229	Well, then it's 'cause sir. Rasmus Nordqvist does not know the constitution, because there is nothing about it, because the police and the courts are second to none. May I quote from section 78 (1). 2 and 3: Associations that act by or seek to achieve their goals by violence, incitement of violence or similar criminal influences against different thinkers are dissolved by judgment. No association may be dissolved by a government measure, but an association may be provisionally prohibited, but proceedings must be brought against it immediately for its dissolution. So it is a duty of the Minister of Justice, if such associations exist, to dissolve them and then take the trial afterwards. By the way, it is at the Supreme Court; it is also stated in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304124315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304124316	I think that paragraph 3 of the motion for a resolution states: 2 describes it so very well when it says that it will be dissolved by judgment, and that is what I think we should first stick to, i.e. that we have some courts that can take a stand in these cases, and not that we should sit and be judgmental powers in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304124331	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304124348	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party has asked the government to explain its value policy today. So far, it seems to have been about the Danish People's Party explaining the values of the Danish People's Party, so I thought to take it back to the presentation and dwell on the Danes and Danishness for a moment. I think it is I who believe that many Danes cannot recognize their country in these days, weeks, months, because we have a foreign minister who feels obliged to tell the Danes that she will not rip out the seals on people fleeing the horrors of war. Yes, thank you, but otherwise everything is allowed. The government's attempt to scare people in need from seeking to Denmark is as unansk as it can possibly be for me. In fact, I believe that the vast majority of Danes know Denmark as an open country that welcomes people on the run. Denmark is themselves, and the Danes welcome it. Whatever they vote, there are so many who help each day to carry out tasks around the country to welcome the refugees who are coming. The Danes know Denmark as a country of freedom and freedom of diversity and also as a country where fundamental democratic rights are more than just highly-sung ideals. We actually live them out, and Danish values cannot be reduced to meatballs or douchebags, even though I actually love both. That is why we are witnessing a policy of scaremongering rights that we have fought for for centuries. We have an Foreign Minister who ignores criticism from the Ombudsman, is proud to go to the edge of the conventions or over them and without blinking send refugees to tent camp, but do not think they should work while they are there. We have a government that is supported by the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance allowing detention of people without any time limit for judicial review. The government and its supporters apologize for this tight, so it scares-strategy that it is necessary in order to integrate the people who come to Denmark. But if there is something the government's policy does not do, then it is precisely to ensure successful integration. On the contrary, government policy creates marginalisation, and that is not the way to good integration. I even think the government itself has documented that. That is why we must be tempted to ask whether anyone has learned anything. Darknessmen in the Grimmhøjmosque, whom this debate has come to be about, those who argue for stoning, oppression, violence against children and other atrocities, we all take a strong stand against that, and we must do so. Some parties then require the mosque closed on that basis. We do not do that in the Radical Left, because what difference will it make? If it made a difference, we're in, but it's not Grimhøjmoskeens brick that calls for violation of Danish laws, it's the Imams in it. Let me just make it quite clear: they must be prosecuted, just as we are prosecuting people who break the law. They must also be spoken against, and they must be combated with all the democratic means at our disposal, every day, until their congregation has disappeared and won the freedom that all of us enjoy. We must bring out the rabid positions in the light, not hidden in dark backyards, so that we can fight them with words, law and justice. It's Danish for me. On the other hand, it is not time to sell out our Danish values, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of association; on the contrary, it is more than ever time for us to stand firm on them and, together with all the many Muslims who contribute to Danish society every day, to actively use them to fight extremism and radicalisation. We must be there for all those who fight the fight for freedom and equality every day and say: we are on your team!
ParlaMint-DK_20160304124916	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is for Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304124922	Thank you. It emerged from the speech here that it was government policy and also the policy of the majority in the Folketing to rip the seals out of the teeth of people. I would like to know what part of the immigration legislation we are trying to do that deals with it and where it stands. My view is that the people who come to the country as refugees and are recognised, etc., will, on the other hand, have a dental examination, that they will go through various things both with doctors and dentists and get their teethets fixed on the bill of the government, something that the Danes are not allowed to do. So I'm a little lost now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125007	I don't think sir. Søren Espersen was listening. I repeat, we have an Foreign Minister who feels obliged to tell the Danes that she will not rip out the seals on people fleeing the horrors of war. After all, the Foreign Minister felt obliged to tell us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125028	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125030	Yes, one might then wonder why she feels compelled to do so. It's probably because somebody else has said that. But I am sorry that I misunderstood what was said. I would say, then, that taking values from refugees or from people who come here is nothing new in the European context. It also happens in other places in a perfectly normal way. I think it has been so unfair to see how this has been compared with the situation in, for example, the situation in the United Kingdom. Nazi Germany in the 1930s, where people were stripped of what they had before leaving the country, and thus they did not have the opportunity to support themselves when they came out to the country where they had now fled. I also believe that the Radical Left has been very much involved in pushing on that wagon, which has also spread internationally, and has thus behaved disloyally towards Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125120	There was no question there. I don't agree with sir. Søren Espersen, but I'm glad that Mr. Søren Espersen... Søren Espersen attributes such extreme foreign political influence to the Radical Left as Mr. Søren Espersen does there. I would never compare any of the government's otherwise quite terrible proposals with Nazism or anything like that. I would never do that. On several occasions I have just said clearly what was said in several newspapers yesterday that not a single piece of property or anything else has been taken from any of the asylum seekers, the refugees who come to Denmark every day. There isn't. That is why it is quite clear that this was all about scaring people away from Denmark. I think that was very clear from my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125207	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125209	Thank you. Earlier this day, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen asked a question to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Dan Jørgensen, and in this connection she said that the Radical Left has always fought the fight for freedom, especially in view of the attitudes expressed in the documentary broadcast that TV 2 is currently running, about the mosques and the extreme environments that exist. My question is to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, because it was very surprising to me that the Radical Left has fought this freedom struggle... what the Radical Left has done quite specifically to combat the attitudes expressed in the TV 2 broadcasts on the mosques. I really would like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125312	I also believe that I referred earlier in the Chamber today to the catalogue of proposals on combating radicalisation and extremism presented by the previous government, which Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's party actually voted in favour and thank you for that. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen's party, a broad majority in the Folketing, voted in favour of the catalogue of proposals on combating radicalisation. It is, after all, a question of how far one is willing to go in order to take action on prudential supervision as soon as any form of repression, violence or the like is exercised. I think we agree that we should go as far as we possibly can. It is forbidden in Denmark, and it must be possible to intervene and help those freedom fighters who have fought every day for many years, and who are found in the Muslim environments, who have Muslim background and have taken the debates, have taken the battles, have broken out of those environments and are working today to get far more. In return, I miss the Danish People's Party in that fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125424	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125426	The truth is that the government would start a dialogue with the Imams, including Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. This was taken out by the Danish People's Party because we knew which stinging vessels are among most of the Imams. Then I think it is very symptomatic that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen spends most of her time attacking the Danish People's Party and the government instead of the darkmen in the mosques. Is not the truth that these darkmen have been allowed to grow large while the Radicals have been in power for many years?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125512	I am so glad that the Danish People's Party always makes clear how many years the Radical Left has been in power. I wish it were more, and I'll work hard for that. There will be no time at all when I do not speak against the dark men who talk about stoning and say that you have to beat your children or that women have to go home to violent men. We will always speak against this in the Radical Left, which is why we support with all our strength the freedom fighters with Muslim background who have been fighting for many years, and we have been doing so for many years, and we will continue to do so even when there is no TV on or a question in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125558	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125600	Thank you. I would really like to ask the radical rapporteur whether it was a mistake to give Imam Abu Bilal citizenship. This has been done here in the Folketing. The Radical Left voted in favour, the Danish People's Party voted against. It is exposed, for example. in 2014, that it imam has called for the killing of Jews. It is revealed in TV 2's documentary now that he teaches when to kill a Muslim and when to stone women. And it happens in secret when he doesn't think there's a camera on it. When the camera's on, he's a completely different guy. With the knowledge we have now, does Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen think it was a mistake that there was a majority in this Parliament that gave that man citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125652	I wasn't in the Folketing when it was discussed. And I think this is about what kind of criteria we set for granting citizenship. It is, in fact, about our very basic values in Denmark. Do we have freedom of speech? We do. Can we then limit it to some and not to others? No, we can't. Can we prosecute a violation of Danish law and call for violence? Fortunately, we can, and we must do so. And I hope he can be convicted and put in jail. I am not going to change the citizenship rules so that the Danish People's Party itself can assess when they think that people are violating their version of freedom of expression. That is why we have a division of power in Denmark. That is why it is so important to uphold our basic democratic rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125742	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125744	That was a fine non-answer, because it is not the courts who have to judge who is to have citizenship in this country. It follows from the Basic Law that it is the Folketing that decides who one wants to grant to a person who is entitled to citizenship. A majority of this Parliament has opposed the voices of the Danish People's Party wishing to give Bilal, the imam at the Grimhøjmoskeen in Aarhus, citizenship. After he became a citizen, we have a knowledge of what he is actually running around committing that he makes statements about killing Jews, making statements about when to stone his wife and when to kill Muslims if they commit various things that are contrary to Sharia law. I therefore ask: if we had known at the time when he was going to have his case settled here in the Folketing, does the Radical Left still believe that he should have had citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125838	I believe that we must take a position on the criteria we have set for obtaining citizenship. If he lived up to them, he should have citizenship. What this is all about is combating the attitudes that the imam stands for. We must continue to fight them, and we must prosecute them at all times if these positions violate Danish legislation. But we cannot take a single person out here in the Folketing and change our legislation and our basic criteria for democracy for that reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125914	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304125916	I would like to follow up on the same lines, because it is now a well-known fact that the Radical Left is not really going through matters when they grant derogations in respect of citizenship. At any rate, it has been indicated by Mrs Lotte Rod from the speaking chair of the Folketing that matters are not being examined, but that people are just getting citizenship. I think, however, that the fundamental debate itself is essential. Well, now we have him imam. What is needed for the Radical Left? Does the rapporteur think it was right that he should be granted citizenship if it were today? I think this is a very specific issue, which concerns the guidelines on citizenship that we are discussing and discussing at times.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304130005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304130006	Well, I don't want to take a stand on one person. I will take a position on the criteria for granting citizenship. They're the ones that matter. We have to agree on them here in the Folketing. Once we have agreed on them, and we are, we have criteria for citizenship... these are the ones we have to decide on in order to determine whether each of them complies with them. At that time, the person did... I guess. I was not in the Folketing, but I have to assume that that is what has happened and that is why a large majority gave him citizenship. That's not the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that these attitudes are practiced and that there is a congregation to practice them against. That is where we need to take action. This is the congregation we must reach out to and have done as little as possible, for then Abu Bilal is superfluous.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304130100	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304130102	Then I have to conclude that these people will be rewarded with citizenship in the future too, but peace will be with it. What I think is very thought-provoking and very, very typically radical is to assume in the speech that in reality the sources of what is wrong in our society, the government and the Danish People's Party. And then you can drive on in that track: It's those intolerant Danes who don't like people with a different skin color, etc. etc. Then you can run in that usual track that it's really the source of it, while at the same time these imams out in the Grimmøjmosque just go on and on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304130145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304130147	Well, it must have been sir. Christian Langballe's own speech he read from here, because it couldn't have been mine. I was just talking about the many, many Danes who, regardless of which party they vote for, accept and open their homes up, among other things. This amazing person on Lolland who has opened his home to a lot of refugees. She votes for the Danish People's Party. It's amazing that she also has a desire to help. Almost all Danes have that, and I have very, very much respect for it. I think it is a huge problem when stoning is preached and children must be beaten and women oppressed. And my solution to that is to reach out to the people who are in that congregation and keep fighting for them to have the same freedoms and the same rights of equality that I have, otherwise we will fail them. What I find really disturbing and thought-provoking about this debate is how far the Danish People's Party is willing to go to sacrifice our absolutely fundamental freedoms, our basic democratic rights, because these are the ones that the extremists want us to undermine.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304130300	Then we thank Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304130313	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate so far. I think it is a very, very important debate, because whether you ask in the Danish People's Party or in the SF or in the Enhedslisten, or if you ask the Prime Minister or the spectators, I think that people are quite angry to see the things they see in the documentary. When I went out to react and say that it was awful, there were some who said: now all the politicians are coming and saying it is horrible. But it's because we all think it's terrible. In other words, nobody thinks that it is good when there are people in Denmark who want to restrict women's rights, people who fill young people with crazy ideas, people who call for child violence. No one thinks that is good, and I just think that should be the basic premise of this debate. After all, the debate started by dealing with Danish values. That's it, sir. Søren Espersen had called for a debate on this, and it is also somewhat related to what is happening in the Grimhøjmoskeen. For us, for the SF, a Danish-value democracy is that one can vote in the elections, that the minority is protected from the majority, that one can speak freely and that one can be gathered freely, and that one as a certain student says that the more disagree, one is with someone, the more nice one speaks to them. Another value for us has been equality. It has been as long as I can remember. I come from a communist home where as a child I have been forced to run around to our birthdays and sing songs about women's rights. I didn't think that was so funny back then, but that was the case. So it is by God something that the left wing has fought forever. That is why we are also affected by what is happening. It is just to say that for the SF gender equality, women's rights, they must be given equal pay, they must be treated properly, they must be allowed to work and they must be allowed to take an education, an important value for us. A third value, which has not been discussed so much, is equality, which I think is quite unique to Denmark, namely that we live in such an equal society that everyone can actually take an education and everyone can live a reasonably good life. We think this is an important Danish value. One last and equally important value for us is freeness of mind: that we dare explore the world, that we dare challenge the prevailing social outlook, that we accept differences and different sexualities. These are some battles we've been fighting for so many years. I think that many of us in here can also agree on these values, and I think that they are also supported by the vast majority of Christians, the vast majority of Jews and also the vast majority of Muslims. But there are also places, and I think we should talk openly about this, where the values are challenged by a sympathetic view of society, which belongs to other parts of the world, and by people who are here talking about it, and which I basically do not understand what is going on in Denmark. Well, if the society they want is so distinctly different from the Danish one, then I don't understand why they're here. That's what you might be wondering. We are particularly concerned about women's rights in these environments. There is a study by Als Research in 2011 that has outlined conditions for young people with different ethnic backgrounds. Half of the young people experienced that they were not allowed to have a boyfriend for their family. One in four experienced that the family helped to choose their spouse. And one out of every four was seriously afraid that the family would choose a mate for them against their will. We think this is worrying, and we know it exists, and that is why we think there is a need for a fight with these things. I think that, in fact, we can get together across the parties, and I would actually like that to be the case. We have some concrete bids. Some of them have actually been presented by Enhedslisten, and others have been presented by the Liberal Alliance. We believe that there should be more focus on democracy in primary school. We believe that, from day one, gender equality should be taught, that sexism is not right, that there is no difference between men and women. We do not think there is any difference between mathematics education and camp education, so we must demand that girls, wherever they come from, also attend camp. An active school policy must be pursued so that we do not suddenly have schools where there are 70%. of students who have different ethnic backgrounds, because we believe that this actually creates cultural problems. Special offers must be made for children and adolescents under 18. They must be special offers for young girls who have experienced domestic crises and who have been treated unfairly. There must be special treatment, housing and foster families for young people. There must be more places at shelters for those women so that they are not forced to return home to the family or to the parallel society, and so that they are given all the means needed to rebel. Because we can stand and agree throughout the debate that there is a need for a rebellion against this, but I think the most important thing about the rebellion is that it comes from within, and we must make the funds available for that. Then we need to increase the focus on re-educational trips and punishment for those parents who accept it and who send their children on a re-educational journey. And then there must be increased supervision of the free schools, which ensure that what is taught when it comes to teaching sex education and democracy is not the opposite, that is, anti-democracy and that you must not have free sexuality. Then we have to put an end to parallel societies where, in my view, the major problems exist. How is that supposed to be done? You have to start with "and it's such a concrete thing to prosecute the people who do something illegal. That goes without saying, but it becomes such a thing: what are we, as politicians, going to do? Should we close mosques? So, to me, if someone does something illegal in a mosque or somewhere else in Denmark, they have to be prosecuted. Then they must be punished. Then you have to have more people at work, and it's also the women. It is simply necessary to demand that women, although it is not acceptable in some places in Denmark, start an education or start a job. You have to stop ghettoizing. And in fact, I believe that some of those sitting in here today also have a responsibility, because when you introduce an integration benefit, and that is not to start such a huge debate about it, it will just mean that there will be more ghettos, because then the municipalities cannot afford to send refugees out into areas other than where the ghettos already are, so that it will create more parallel societies. If you change the law of plans so that it becomes harder to build new cheap housing, it will also be harder to avoid these ghettos. And we also have a responsibility on the left, because we've just seen it happen or seen these ghettos come through time, but now we have to learn from our mistakes and stop ghettoizing Denmark. Then I think we should give more time to the social workers around, who have to monitor these young people, because yes, we have to punish the Imams if they do something illegal, but the best punishment we can give them is to remove their spectators, in other words, to remove their basis for speaking. I think you can do that by constantly paying attention to these young people... both the police, the SSP in general, the teachers, the street planners... and saying: don't come to those anti-democratic lectures. Come on out to the football club, come on out into the SFO that is, instead. These are some measures that I think work. Then there are some members of parliament who will say: Well, they haven't worked. Some of these things we just haven't done before. We have accepted that there have been ghettos over a period of time, so let us now focus on that. These are some suggestions the SF will work for here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131040	Thank you. We shall now proceed to brief remarks, and the first is from Mr Beyer de Ryke. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131045	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge, of course, that Mr. Jacob Mark, in contrast to some of the other rapporteurs, the rapporteur from the Alternative, etc., actually recognises that there is a problem and that is how I hear it. And you can say that the first thing that needs to be done to solve a problem is to recognise that it is there. So far so good. I also think that Mr. Jacob Mark mentioned some excellent things about punishing parents who want to send their children to re-education, etc. We in the Danish People's Party would very much like to work with the SF on this. I would like to ask a question in connection with a proposal that has come from the SF here in the last few days about an imam education. In other words, how does the Socialist People's Party intend to work? Is it the idea that the imam from the Grimhøjmoskeen should be sent on an education here in Denmark? I don't know if you want to drag him there but if he doesn't want to go on that education then there must be some sanctions in relation to it, i.e. in relation to imams who don't want to go on such an education or don't want to be approved by the Danish state? Is the SF's proposal to approve imams before they are allowed to preach in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131149	No matter how much desire you have for it, it is not in the proposal, because we cannot control it; we cannot control who speaks where. I mean, we can make notifications if there are some people who are making terrible speeches in front of children, and we can prosecute people who say something illegal, but we can't just stand there and lie and force people to do something. We can't stand by and tell who can talk where. When we've proposed this imam education, it's to give some people who don't agree with these very, very rabid imams, a platform so say: let's try to educate men and women in Islamic theology, but on the basis of a Danish view of society, which can be a response in this debate. I really do not believe, even though it has sometimes been presented, that this will solve all the problems, so suddenly there is no rabid imam in Grimhøj. But I do believe that it is precisely in relation to the fact that the battle must come from within that it would be good for people to train imams.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131243	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131245	I'd like to sign for the fact that Mr. Jacob Mark wants to sanction imams. It is also a good start, one might say. But could one not imagine, if one is playing with the idea that imams must go through a particular course • I do not argue that one should set up such a special education at universities or something • and that they must be approved, in order for them to be allowed to preach in a religious community or an association in Denmark, and that if that religion or association then uses someone who is not approved, there will be a penalty that could be imposed on the religion or association in question, or that one could punish the imam • one could withdraw the residence permit? Is it completely remote for the Socialist People's Party to think in such a way? Otherwise, you risk setting up an education for no good in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131335	Frankly, I'm skeptical about the idea. So, I have also heard that the Socialists have proposed courses in this area, and we would like to discuss further how such imam training could be carried out and how it should, as it were, be made to work afterwards. But I'm just trying to figure out the consequences afterwards. Should we decide who should be allowed to make speeches around the country? I mean, should we dictate it in relation to some kind of education? So I find that difficult to see in line with the Constitution. And what would that have to do with other religions? Should we decide who would speak in the free churches? I am not an expert in that area, but I do believe that what the rapporteur says would have serious consequences. So we do not think this is the right way to go, but we are happy to continue discussing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131412	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131415	There was certainly some of the things that we would also like to contribute to giving more money to, for example. Centre for women affected by violence. There may be a great need for that. If this development continues as it has started, then some centers really have to be built. It was a good review of how SF feels about life, but what I really need is just a few moments to know: Why will the SF not vote for the government to take steps to break up the Grimhøjmoskeen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131450	There are two reasons for this, one of which is of a legal nature and the other is more of a political nature. The first is that it's been up before. In 2015 it was up to a consultation where the Danish People's Party also suggested closing it, where then Minister of Justice Mette Frederiksen had examined the possibility and said it simply could not be done. So when it suddenly became something that we had to debate today, I thought, well, why are we discussing it when everyone knows that it is not possible. It is not, of course, within the framework of the Constitution, at least immediately. The second part is that, as has also been mentioned in today's debate, I fear that it will have any effect at all. I listen to the police, as the Danish People's Party usually does, and they say that this will not help in the fight against radicalisation. On the contrary, there is a risk that it will just go out and around, and if you look at the countries that have closed mosques, you can see that for example. in France, on which I have been reading, the researchers down there say it doesn't help. It's not working. On the contrary, it has become more difficult to keep an eye on what is happening now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131549	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131550	Now it has happened several times in history that the Danish People's Party has put forward something several times, and then it has become a reality, so it should not surprise me if it would happen at some time this time too. I would just like to ask the same question as I have asked another rapporteur about the idea that if you close or dissolve it here, it will only open up somewhere else: if we think that there were such illegal gambling establishments or a paedophile association that held such basement meetings, or organizers of dogfights, you would not close them because they would just go somewhere else. Is it really not the same logic, and does it make any sense at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131630	It actually made me think about it when the previous rapporteur said so. I also believe that illegal activities should be severely tackled, and if it were only the case that you had an association or something that was illegal, that is to say, where you are not lawyers from a legal point of view, I am certainly not able to say that it is purely illegal, then I would also say that it should be closed down, that is precisely for the same reason. But that is not the case. It is the case that we have now been shown in a TV 2 documentary that some people have said something illegal, we believe, and that is what I think we must do, but we cannot close it within the framework of the Constitution. That's what's all the hops in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131706	The next one is sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131710	Yes, first of all I would like to sign for a rapporteur's speech, which is quite different from those of the left, I had almost said. In other words, the rapporteurs of the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Radicals did not really seem to recognise in their speeches that there is a problem here. SF does, and I think that's good. It is also the SF that has a former chairman, Mr. Villy Søvndal, who said in connection with Hizb ut-Tahrir that they should go to hell understand that the people who have such a dark vision should move to another country. That is actually what brings me to my question, which is that the ultimate protection we give these people is to grant them citizenship. And the imam in the Grimhøjmosque, which we have much discussed, and which has now again been uncovered in its very, very bad views in relation to the stoning of women, and when to kill other Muslims and the like, has, of course, been granted citizenship by this Parliament, where the SF voted for and the Danish People's Party voted against. Does it not give rise to a reflection in the SF, also in relation to this point, i.e. whether you go too far, in relation to who you give citizenship and thus the ultimate protection? Because then you can't send them out, so you can't get rid of them again or ask them to go to hell with Villy Søvndal's words. Then they are part of Danish society with the horror we among other things. experience in TV 2's documentary here in recent days.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131836	In fact, I was also trying to make a slightly hidden Villy reference when I said I don't understand why they're here either. So I simply do not understand why they are not down there where the society they want exists. As far as citizenship is concerned, it has been the case that I was not there to see that the current Imam has at that time complied with the requirements of the Danish Parliament. Well, apparently he didn't commit crime, which is one of the demands. He's been self-supporting. And he's been here for a while. I mean, he's met the demands we've made. If we should have avoided his having citizenship today, and I can think about that too, we should have somehow been inside his head and foreseen that he would do these things today. I just don't see how we should do that, and I don't think we should do it either. 'Cause I just don't think it's rhetorical that it's bordering on some kind of mind police.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131928	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304131930	Yeah, I understand that's a problem. But does it not just show that you are too lenient to give citizenship and that you may give far too many citizenships and may do so too quickly? We could, of course, make it conditional on the fact that Danish values and such things are not being fought. What is happening here is that you use your citizenship as a protection to invoke the freedom of expression of the Constitution, to sit in rooms where you don't expect there to be TV on, and to preach Sharia law in Denmark in violation of Danish laws and regulations. And when TV comes on, you're a completely different person and you say that you follow all the Danish rules. But it's completely revealed that you didn't do it. And it's been a few years since the same imam called for the killing of Jews. So somewhere it has to give a reflection in this Parliament that it may well be that the demands we make to become a Danish citizen are too few, so that we have to tighten up those demands and that we may have to wait a little longer before giving citizenship to some of these people, or that we have to make it conditional, so that we have the opportunity to take citizenship back again. Are these thoughts that could also be promoted by the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132039	I understand the idea, but when I look at the demands they shouldn't have committed crime, they should be self-supporting, and they should actually sign such a declaration of loyalty to Denmark I just don't see what you should have done differently. If you think this idea to the end, this is one person and yes, there are also some more, because there are some crazy people around here who have been granted citizenship. However, we are giving thousands of citizenships in here to people who are self-employed, who do not commit crime and who come out and are good comrades and a good value for Danish society. If we were to legislate on the basis of such crazy people, all of them would suffer. We can't, and I don't think we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132116	The next one is sir. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132122	In fact, I think that conditions can be laid down, and I also believe that we can do better with citizenship. I am fully aware that we have now entered a round where we have tightened up and I do not think that the imam in question would have acquired citizenship today, so I do not think he would, but peace be with it. But I do think that there is a big problem in giving Islamists who simply do not want the Danish community citizenship at all and we do so every time, I am quite convinced of that and I think there is a problem in not trying to question what these people have, so at least they do something, i.e. they do. by doing an interview with them when they apply for citizenship in terms of how they view the Danish state. For then you can also put it on something that is binding, that is, something that shows back and says that that person also has a responsibility in relation to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132234	After all, we have discussed this here before, when the rapporteur has previously proposed some sort of screening unit or some conversations, and I just do not agree. Because what is to be monitored? I think it is okay to have some other views, including on democracy, and I think it is okay to have some other views on what a society should look like. I don't think it's okay that someone has illegal opinions or that someone has committed something illegal, but if you start walking along that path and you have to interview all people about their opinions, what are those opinions that are okay, and how would that happen? Well, most of all, it reminds me of a George Orwell tank police. I think we should stick to the fact that if you've done something illegal and you mean something illegal, you can't sign that declaration of loyalty. If you've done something illegal, you can't get citizenship. That is what we must stick to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132325	I certainly believe that it would be easy to make some kind of demand that if someone would simply destroy Danish society and the Danish social order, that is to say, the rule of the people as such, and if they are against it, then they should not have citizenship. I am not talking about the fact that we should not have the opportunity to comment on this and that, but I am talking here about citizenship, and I think that is something else. Because when you are a national of a country and you are even granted citizenship, that is what I would expect, I would say that you recognise the fundamental values on which the people's rule is based, and that is why I think a screening unit would be fine, and I think that would be a good idea. It is not because people cannot pronounce anything, but because there are some people who are not supposed to have Danish citizenship. Among other things: This imam should never have had citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132426-2	But you just sign a declaration of loyalty to show that it may well be that you have some other views on how you think a society should look, but you are loyal to Denmark and Denmark's laws, and if that is not enough, we start to say as a state: We have to control your positions, even if they are not illegal, and we decide exactly what opinions you should have. But for me, it's a basic Danish value that we can't, but you can't sign the declaration of loyalty if you're going to do something illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132457	The next one is sir. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132501	The SF rapporteur says we need an imam education. I do not think that solves the problem of mosques like the Grimhøjmosque, because we cannot force preachers to take a certain education. But I would like to ask you a question, if we now get such an education. There are 70 directions within Islam. In what direction should you teach? Who's gonna teach? Who's gonna be a censor?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132528	These are good questions, and the rapporteur knows very well that I will not be able to answer them, which is why we have always said throughout the debate that this is not something that we in the SF or the Folketing should be completely designing. We imagine that the Folketing is working towards this education, and that it is doing so with the Muslim associations, and that it is doing so with the universities, which should then have this education, and with the Ministry. In other words, it is not the SF's rapporteur who has to sit and do such an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132558	But when you propose education, you must also have considered what it should be for an education. You can't just say education and then leave it to others to knit the training together. Should it be an academic education? What are those moderate Muslim associations who are going to teach it to teach? Who's gonna teach? Who's gonna be a censor? What curriculum is there? Haven't you had those thoughts before you suggested it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132629	Yes, we have had some reflections, and there are already courses in Islamic theology, and they can then be taken as a starting point. In addition, however, it is important for me to say that I do not think I am an expert in this area. There are other and smarter people than me who have to do this, and I just want to make a little comparison. Now I am also the SF's education rapporteur, but it is not up to me as rapporteur to decide exactly what it takes to become a physicist, and it is not up to me to decide exactly what it takes to get your law degree, and thank God for it. But that is why it is possible to have a view that we should have a law education in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132704	Then we thank the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Jacob Mark, and welcomes the rapporteur of Conservatives, Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304132723	Everything's fine, they say. But not everything is equally good when we talk about values and when we talk about democratic values. Some values are much better than others. Democratic values are best. Everything is not equal, for then everything will also be meaningless and wiped out. There is a straight line from the slow integration policy of the 1980s over the 1990s barn and the arrogance of the left towards critics and skeptics and the failed integration projects of the 00s and the Mohammed drawings of 2005 until today, when we see once again several mosques and imams in Danish society exposed as hypocrites, liars, people who talk with several tongues. We have approx. 130 mosques or places to pray in Denmark. Many of them actually work okay. I have family members who walk in some of those mosques. It's not like everyone's bad. However, there are some salafist, Islamist mosques that do not work well, such as the Grimhøjmosque, which I have been warning of for many years now. The Grimhøjmosque, which is Salafist, acts almost as the Embassy of Islamic State or the travel agency of Islamic State. Up to 30 of the young Danes who have gone from East Jutland to Syria have been through this mosque. And then you talk about the Aarhus model. If the Aarhus model was so good, then I do not understand that there are about 30 that have gone down to Syria from the East Jutland region. What is being said in these salafist mosques is not theoretical. They don't read from anything that's happened in the past. In fact, they tell about their dream societies, about their vision societies. That's what you want at some point. And this is where the problem lies. It is a visional society with the Sharia criminal justice system, where you, among other things, find yourself. Stoning women who cheat. What's stoning about? It has become a figure of speech just to say stoning. It is that a woman who is sentenced to death is placed in a hole in the ground, tied up, with a sack over her head, and then you start throwing stones at her; the little stones first, and then the big ones until she dies. It's stoning. That's what the Imam of the Grimhøjmosque dreams of when he gets his vision society. These aren't harmless visions. That is why it is extremely important that we take action against mosques such as the Grimhøjmosque. We must show tolerance and profit, they say. Yes, we certainly have to deal with those who want Denmark, and there are very, very many of them. I know a lot of people who make a really positive contribution to this society. We should appreciate their work, their contribution to this society, and they should not be put in the booth with those who do not want Denmark. But I am also a little critical of those who manage to do so on one point, and that is that they are too passive. They should come out and take a strong stand against mosques like the Grimhøjmosque. In recent years thousands of people have flocked to Denmark, and they have much in their luggage. Let's check out the luggage that some people bring with them here without being a toucher. I think it is extremely important when people come here that we demand total assimilation in our democracy, our traditions of freedom. It's not integration, it's assimilation. But as far as cultural and religious are concerned, it is just integration. It is important that we say that the Constitution precedes religion. Basic values of freedom take precedence over religious values. It is also said that trust is good, but control is better. That's unfortunate, because who doesn't want to trust his neighbor? But that is unfortunately the case when we talk about salafist imams around the Grimmøjmosque, where you train Syrians, where you talk about multi-wifery, child brides, violence against children and a lot of strange methods of punishment. In such cases, control is actually best. I think we need to look into the possibility of closing the Grimhøjmosque. This must be done within the framework of the Constitution. We should look into it, we should try to find out if it can be done. Then somebody says they'll move somewhere else. Yeah, I guess the Imams and their friends do, too. But the majority of the audience does not. At the moment, they can just come in from the street, the women and their children, teenagers, and listen to these messages. We have to make it as difficult as possible for them to come in and listen to these messages. What surprises me about the revelations that have been with the Grimhøjmosque and other mosques is that there are so many who are surprised. This is something I have actually been warning you about for a very, very many years. There are imams that speak with several tongues, depending on who listens to them. I mean, we need to stress them out. I mean, we should go after them the same way we've done with the rockers. We're gonna have to get on the field, too. The Grimhøjmosque is not an approved religion, but it is approved as an economic association, and it thus operates national propaganda for tax money. I have been criticised for wanting to restrict freedom of expression. Some have referred to Lars Hedegaard, Mogens Camre, Lars Vilks? What about them? You're defending their freedom. Yes, I have told Lars Hedegaard several times that I will defend his right to be wrong. But Lars Hedegaard, Lars Vilks, Mogens Camre are democrats. They've never called for violence. They respect democracy. Their vision society is democracy. These imamers aren't. So we can't be naive. Freedom of speech is under pressure. For the past 10 years, the Muhammad drawings have proved in reverse order that the project with the drawings had a point and that Jyllands-Posten's editor was right. This is a tremendous pressure on our open, tolerant and democratic society. That is why we need to stand firm. We do not need to align ourselves with anything at all, but rather stand firm on the Danish democratic values, the basic law, which is the most important thing here in Danish society. That is why we must defend ourselves. We must defend our democracy. Democracy does not mean being naive. Being a Democrat doesn't mean being naive. Democracy does not mean a state of naivism. Democracy has to defend itself every once in a while and step into character. This can also be done from time to time by doing things that may not have been done in the past, such as: to close a mosque like the Grimhøjmosque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133519	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133526	With fear of giving Mr. Naser Khader's kiss of death I'd say it was a super good speech that was made. I would also like to say that I have little difficulty in understanding why the Conservative People's Party cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, in which we stress, as Mr. Naser Khader did so in accordance with Paragraph 78 of the Constitution. 2 and 3, that is to say, how this is to be done legally. Why couldn't you?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133559	That is because we have agreed to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left. The left is more delicious.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133612	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133614	I must understand that. You choose to support a slightly smaller party, that's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133621	The rapporteur. No? The next brief remark comes from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133629	I would also like to thank you for a very good speech. I have noticed that the imams in these extreme mosques defend themselves with the fact that they are really just communicating Islam and the Koran, as it is, in other words stoning, that you are allowed to beat children, you are allowed to beat women and all that. What is the rapporteur's position on this? I know, of course, that the rapporteur has dealt with Islam a great deal over time, has written about it and is himself a practicing Muslim. What is the rapporteur's position on the imams saying: we cannot run away from this as Muslims at all, that is something we should say?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133708	I disagree that what was practiced centuries ago must be practiced in a certain historical context. If the Imams had sat and read out of the text and had said: that was how it was done 1,400 years ago, we will not do that today, then I would have agreed and would have supported it. But what is the problem with those Islamist imams is that they have a dream of returning to the way they lived in the past. That is what Salafism means to return to the first time after Muhammad. And it's not a social vision I'm in favour of. I would like Islam to be reformed, democratised, modernised. And the prerequisite for doing so is among other things. to render some of those violent passages invalid today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133805	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133807	Thank you for a good answer. Something else that the rapporteur has been following for many years is after all the left in Denmark. How will the rapporteur characterise the act of the left in relation to these extreme Muslim environments and the Imams?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133823	I think that in the past there has been a predominantly naivety in relation to the Imams. Imams have been given a monopoly on Islam, even though they do not represent all Muslims. But I see that people are starting to become more realistic, and we should only be glad that they are moving away from the naivistic. I'm just glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133850	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. And the next person to take part in the debate is the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304133906	Thank you. And thank you for one, I think, both good and interesting debate, which first of all confirms that we have discussed an important issue which concerns us all and which is probably more relevant now than ever, because we are living in a time when historically many people are looking for Europe and against Denmark, and where the problems we are facing now, which are the result of immigration and failure to integrate, are only reinforced if we do not tackle the current challenge properly. I also think, by the way, in line with that, sir. Naser Khader finally said here that I sense an increase in realism or that realism is spreading. Several rapporteurs have spoken directly into the fact that there is a problem here, but also that it is a dilemma and it is not easy to resolve, and yet there are exceptions. For me, it was strange to listen to the Radical rapporteur, who, in a debate on these issues, came to the conclusion that the most unanswered thing that exists is the government and the government's policy. I think that might be turning things upside down. In my optics, it's the other way around. I believe that the policy pursued by the government, the policy pursued by the government on foreigners, is based on a realistic realization that, if we are to deal with the problems we have seen recently on television, which are not surprising, and which we know is around, we have to assume that numbers mean something. Then we need to find a different and better balance between guarding some humanitarian values, which are also Danish, to help, but primarily do so in the vicinity, and understand that if we open our door to everyone, the problem escalates. But with it and few other exceptions, I actually sense that there is a rather broad recognition in the Folketing that we are facing a set of challenges that we need to look at with increasing seriousness. Unfortunately, it is not the case that there is just the finger-tip solution. We need to do something more to combat radicalisation, and we are in the process of doing so. We have taken steps together recently to strengthen preventive action against radicalisation and extremism, to strengthen PET's ability to engage in this. We have recently adopted two legislative proposals aimed at strengthening the tools of the authorities to prevent radicalisation. And last year we have agreed on a series of measures to prevent young people from being radicalised, and indeed what has been a theme here today, to give a hand in helping young people who want to get out of these environments. There is now a new centre opening up in Copenhagen, and I do not rule out the need for more forward-looking action, but that is at least part of the answer to the problems we are facing here, and many have mentioned it, namely that there is a need for a youth uprising in these circles, and when that happens, of course, there is also a need for a community that is reaching out a hand. That's part of the answer. Another part of the answer is, of course, with the authorities that have the task and, above all, it is the police to pursue the statements that have been made recently and to assess whether there is any possibility of exercising legal liability under criminal law. This must be the case in a democracy in which, moreover, we have a constitutional freedom of expression, in other words that it starts there. And I'm aware that the police are looking at this case. Then we must do something to stem the tide of hate preachers. After all, we have stricter legislation on foreigners, which, as a matter of fact, already makes it possible to reject people at the border, who are a threat to public order or security. I think we need to sharpen our attention on this issue, which is why the government has also asked the authorities to quickly consider what we can do to prevent extremist preachers from entering Denmark. And I understand that this work is already in full swing and that last week officials, among other things. was in Britain to discuss the British experience with such a scheme. For no one should be in any doubt that, within the framework of constitutional freedom of expression, we are cutting down on those who sidestep and want to undermine our democracy. So I also welcome the fact that today's debate has expressed what I sense as a higher degree of honesty. If we are to combat parallel societies, we also need to talk openly about them. In 2010 we made a ghetto plan, the ghetto back to the community. It was based on the fact that, among other things, we... with criteria such as ethnicity, unemployment and crime, identified the residential areas that were as I described it at the time, where some kind of hole might have been struck in the Danish map. These were the criteria that were undermined immediately after the 2011 parliamentary elections at the initiative of the then government, which, in fact, contributed to a slightly blurred focus on this. The government is working on a new ghetto plan, and this is a theme we will return to later this year, because if we are going to get rid of this and secure ourselves against this undermining of Danish values that we are witnessing, then one must admit that it is not just one solution that needs to be found. Then there are more things that need to be done. And an offensive ghetto strategy, which is also based on defining a ghetto based on what is really the problem, namely that there are places where Danish is not the most common language, where children grow up with parents who do not go to work and where culture is not Danish, is at least the first prerequisite for achieving our goal. So it will be an important area of action. I have also noted, of course, that this debate has been very much about the Grimhøjmosque and whether it should not just be closed down and turned it off. This is a thought which I have certainly thought about myself and which in many ways I think sounds enticing. Of course, the Constitution provides a framework that we must respect, and I also think it is relevant, as has also been shown in today's debate, to ask ourselves the in-depth question of whether a clean closure solves the problems or rather hides the problems and pulls them under the surface. Now the police are looking at the statements that have been uncovered lately, and the government, of course, has the position that law is law and law must be kept. If one speaks beyond the edge of what one must in Danish society and calls for violence, then one must be prosecuted. But I think we also have to understand that closing the Grimm Mosque in itself does not solve the problem we are facing here. It has a much greater complexity. That is why, as I said, the government is on the way to formulating a ghetto plan. That is why the government in various ways and I have mentioned this here with the hate preachers... is looking at what can be further done to follow up on the anti-radical action that we have already taken. I also welcome the fact that, since the elections, we have tightened up a number of other issues, among others. that we have made a broad agreement with the parliamentary basis of the government and the Social Democratic Party on the communication of citizenship, which strengthens the provisions needed to become a Danish citizen. In order to anticipate an issue that might arise, I can say that I am not in a position here to judge how the access of specific people to citizenship would have been today versus then, weighed up against the new legislation. But at least it is quite obvious that what has been aimed at making the agreement on citizenship has been tightening up and guarding that obtaining Danish citizenship is something unique and that it must basically be based on choosing Denmark for. And choosing Denmark to is not just choosing the options that Denmark offers. It is also to choose the obligations that it gives to be part of Danish society, including to profess fundamental Danish values such as democracy, freeness of speech and equality. With that I would like to thank you for a very, very interesting debate. The government is looking forward to working with all the parties that have joined us in today's debate on what I would call the realistic side of the line.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304134951	Thank you, Prime Minister. The debate is not quite over. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304134959	Thank you, Prime Minister. I think it can be concluded that the debate shows that Danish values are under pressure. Could it be imagined that the Prime Minister could call the parties in the Folketing for a discussion on how we strengthen Danish values and how we combat extreme environments effectively, instead of thinking up another ghetto plan in the exclusive domain of the Ministry? It seems that there are many parties and many members of parliament who are interested in this. Would it not be sensible, on top of the debate we have had today, to call the parties for a debate so that we can strengthen the Danish values and effectively combat them, among other things. the extreme Islamic environments?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304135055	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304135056	Well, the government wants to be in continuous dialogue with the parliamentary political parties on these issues. And first of all, I must say openly that it is of course the parties that share the government's basic analysis that there is a challenge here. That is also why I took the liberty of touching on the fact that the Radical Left apparently thought most that the most unanswered thing was the government's policy. So maybe that's not where the cooperation lies. It happens, and it will happen. The Minister of Justice has a number of relevant initiatives. At the Minister for Integration, we already have close and trusting cooperation to tighten up Danish immigration policy. The Minister for Culture has marked the need for a cannon, which is based on Danish values. So I would like to give a commitment here that the government will of course be in ongoing dialogue ■ and, above all, of course, with our parliamentary basis · on these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304135159	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304135201	Thank you for that commitment. Another thing, perhaps a comment rather than a question, is that I noticed that the Prime Minister is calling for a youth uprising among young Muslims. The youth uprising is already underway, but it is a slightly different rebellion than we imagine. What happens is that they rebel against Danish society, and then they turn against the Islamic environments. So it's not really about getting them out of those environments, it's about not going there at all. I live in Vollsmose myself. We have had many plans over the years, and the young people are still drifting into extreme environments, because they are the ones who have got the crust in these environments. So we need to get them in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304135248	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304135250	I very much agree with that, and that is why we must, of course, be careful just to use such a word as a youth rebellion, because what is being rebelled against now. When I used it in this context, it was as a follow-up to it, sir. Naser Khader also said about the need to reform Islam, and there are young people who are also taking, it can be said, the positive fight with a cultural background of which they have been rounded up and which, as such, want to grasp the opportunities of Danish society and live as free-minded, democratic citizens, and there we need to be able to accept them. I think we agree on that too, and that is why we have set aside resources for this under the pool of rates. This is extremely complex, and I don't subscribe to the view that it's just about jobs and education. I fully agree that there is also an ideological challenge and that therefore it is also a question of saying to and from and very clearly saying that some values are better than others, but it does not shake the fact that there is also a dimension that is about education, work, and that there is a difference between growing up on a street with Danish neighbours or growing up in a settlement where ethnicity is put together in such a way that Danish is the least spoken language. Therefore, there is not one solution to this that needs an overall strategy. We have started this by tightening up our immigration policy, by tightening up family reunification rules, by making initiatives to combat radicalisation, by making better offers for young people who want to leave the environment, but I do not at all claim that we are in the end. That is also why I am announcing here that the government will continue to work on all these themes. Of course, we will do so in cooperation with the parties that share our analysis that we have a real challenge that we cannot just talk our way out of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304135446	The next brief remark is from Mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304135451	Thank you. The Prime Minister, like most parties here today, recognises the problems associated with the fact that we have imams which preach values that we do not believe in in this country at all, but the question is, of course, what we do. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's opinion on the proposal presented by my party, namely that preachers could be required to undergo a course in Danish values, perhaps not so much in the hope that it would change the greatness of their attitude, attitude and behaviour, but that we could at least make sure that they had been confronted with those values and that they understood them, and of course also, because they could then bind it up to a licensing system, which could then be deprived of them again if they broke Denmark's laws and rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304135538	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304135539	I do not want to rule out anything and would like to be open to discussing all the proposals, because it is quite obvious at least that we have not solved the problems historically. I have a reservation anyway, because it's not simple. After all, we have freedom of expression, we have freedom of service, we have plenty of religious environments in Denmark, where people stand up and preach a message without having an authorisation, without having an education, and we have a constitution, and we have some principles of equal treatment. So the question is: what exactly are the operational options for putting this through without taking on any other basic values? I would be hesitant about real imam training. I would be reluctant to put Danish taxpayers' money into building a university education to promote the dissemination of Islam, to put it bluntly. Moreover, it will be the case that I want to have the absolute starting point that if you do, it must be an open education for both men and women, and already there I think you are running into a challenge in getting the project really up and running. The question is whether the more extremist environments will even recognise such training, whether it will be given legitimacy. I do not stand and close any options in advance, but may not be so very hopeful that that is what will resolve things. I believe that we must beat down much harder on those who enter Denmark and preach hatred, pursue them with all the opportunities we have to deny them entry and expel them again, and there are actually some options, and we must investigate that. We are currently examining whether we cannot go further along this path. And then we have to pursue those who cross the line between using their freedom of expression within the framework of what you have to and de facto moving to where you are calling for what you cannot to do to violence. I can't judge the law in the statements we've been seeing lately, but I certainly have an expectation that the police will follow it to the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304135755	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304135756	Yes, now it is not really such an imam education at the university that we are proposing. On the contrary, it is another form of shorter course, where you are presented with the Danish basic values, democratic rights, etc.; where one has to pass a test on those questions; and where one gets an authorization which one can then be deprived of again. That is why it is, first and foremost, a possible means of sanctioning which could perhaps help towards some of the objectives which I understand the Prime Minister also has. The last question I would like to ask relates to something a little different: what about the women who are trapped in violent conditions and the girls or boys for that matter, who are under daily social control in their families? Will the government help to ensure better opportunities for them to be helped through exit programmes, expansion of shelters, more outreach work by the social authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304135849	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304135851	Thank you. In other words, as I said, I do not rule out authorization arrangements, but we must discuss with each other what effect this will have. Because if it is, one can say meaningless in relation to one's ability to preach that one has one's authorization removed, then maybe it just becomes some symbolism. And you have to ask yourself whether it really is going the right way, or whether we are really just getting some extremist environments that kind of break free from that state authorization system and say, "We're gonna make our own decisions and we're gonna preach." In relation to the second part of the question, I would like to say that I believe that we will constantly look at what we are doing and whether what we are doing is quantitatively and qualitatively enough in terms of helping young girls and young men alike who are rebelling against a culture and thus de facto also their family in order to insist on living a more Danish life. There is a new exit center on its way in Copenhagen based on the bet pool. And we are open to discussing forward-looking, that is to say in the context of finance law and rate pool, whether more can be done. Because I have seen the basic view that when young people take so much, you can say air into their lungs and so much courage that they dare turn their backs on an environment in which they have grown up, which does not measure up to the degrees of freedom that we pursue in Danish society, then we also have an obligation to be there. This does not mean that I am writing out a blank cheque, nor do I have one, but I am open to the fact that we will be discussing it in the future. This is completely in parallel with the fact that when young people who have been greasy into criminal environments raise their backs and say that they want out again, then that is where we have to catch them. There is a task, and it is probably not done well enough yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304140101	The next is Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304140104	Thank you. It has to be said that what the Prime Minister recognises, namely that there is increasing realism, unfortunately does not apply to all parties of the Folketing. We had the alternative on the platform earlier today, which said that it was simply not recognised that immigration in Denmark was pushing our Danish values. But I believe that at least the Prime Minister has a rather more realistic recognition of that importance. But what the Prime Minister also says is that the number matters, that it matters how many we let into our society, how many refugees are coming to Denmark. In the Danish People's Party, we have just made a very good proposal, which I hope the Prime Minister and the government will support, and that is why I would like to hear the Prime Minister's position on this today, namely that we set a maximum. the limit on how many refugees we can take a year. The Danish People's Party has precisely proposed that we take the maximum. 1.000 refugees a year because we recognize, just like the Prime Minister, that there is simply a limit to how many we can accept, in terms of how it really affects our society and how many we are actually able to integrate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304140225	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304140226	Thank you. Well, we had a parliamentary election campaign in a situation where the current influx in 2014 had been about 15,000 people, and I said it was too many. That's because I thought it was too many, and it's kind of a measuring point for me to think the number should be lower. I fully admit that the last year was higher, although we took a number of initiatives to stem it. They have also proved effective in the sense that where, for example, you are going to be able to do so. in Germany and Sweden saw an increase in the number of asylum seekers by 100 per cent, we saw a slightly smaller increase in Denmark. But the number is too high, and we're fighting to get that down. I believe that, on top of what we have already done ourselves, with border controls, we need to insist on the existence of European solutions. I also believe that the chances of finding them today are better than they were just six months ago, because, just as one can sense that there has been a new realism in the Assembly, there is also a new realism on the way in Europe. I am not going to stand here today and lock myself to a certain figure, but I can say that the figure we have today is too high, and I also admit that it was my opinion that the figure we had when we had the parliamentary elections last year was too high.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304140409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304140410	It is gratifying to hear that the Prime Minister is also working towards a lower number, although we may disagree on the exact figure. The Prime Minister says that there is a new realism in the Assembly Hall, and of course we have also noticed this in the Danish People's Party. More and more people are running the agenda we have been saying for years now, as we have said, is what needs to be done. It's really nice, but when I hear that for example... The Social Democratic Party proposes that imams should take a course in democracy and Danish values, so I have to say that I have such doubts about how much realism has actually entered the Parliamentary Chamber. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Social Democratic Party that it is a new form of awareness and realism here in the Parliamentary Chamber when the Social Democratic Party believes that we can give an imam a short course and thus ensure that he subsequently, of course, lives up to Danish values and does not counsel wives that you should not go to the police if you experience getting beat up by your husband, just as he does not of course counsel women to stay away from the labour market because they can get to work with men? Is it a new form of realism that an imam course should be able to contain it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304140534	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304140535	Well, I didn't answer Mr. Dan Jørgensen on what the government spontaneously thinks about that proposal. I just do not think that I am going to stand here excluding anyone from taking part in solutions or excluding any solutions, but I am putting a big question mark over what I think there will be the real effect of such a proposal. When I talk about a new realism, and now I have to be careful that I do not become polemical, it is because we are 15 years after we began to tighten up the immigration policy and made a firm and fair immigration policy and had to hear a lot because it has a parliamentary debate here today, where there is quite a broad, even a piece across the middle, said that the number matters. It may well be because I am getting old, but I just want to say that when we tried to clean up an alien policy in 2001, which was then in ruins, and tightened up the conditions of residence and immediate assistance and family reunification rules and other things, there was only support for it from the VKO end. And at least there I sense that there is a greater degree of realism present right now and here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304140658	The last brief remark on my board is for Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304140703	Thank you. I was also thinking about sending Bilal, this imam from Grimhøjmoskeen, on a small short course, but I think you need to revisit these documentary broadcasts on TV 2 in the last few days. I would like to sign the Prime Minister for one, I think it is, recognition of the problems we are facing and an attitude with which we take it seriously and are ready to take more initiatives. In his reply to this question, the Prime Minister mentions that there are a number of things that need to be further investigated, and of course I have full respect for that too. This also means that we will not today vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal to take initiatives under the Constitution to close the Grimhøjmoskeen and then then take it forensic, as it then also follows from the Constitution. But what you could do was rethink it. Well, you could ask the Attorney General to reconsider the possibility of closing the Grimhøjmosque. And I just want to ask the Prime Minister if one of the things he will take into account after the debate is that one could ask the Attorney General to reconsider. For what has to be said after TV 2's documentary is that new information is now coming out, that it is revealed how, on the part of the mosque, one openly speaks with a tongue when one thinks it is in a closed room where there is no TV on, and with another tongue when the public is on. You put yourself on the side of the mosques, you can see from the documentary, in several situations in that you say the dancers ■ about the rest of us. Thus, even though you may be a Danish citizen, you disapprove of Danish society and thus take a completely different view, and you stress the parallel society side and the Sharia Councils and everything that is expressed there. So my question is whether what we have experienced with, among other things. The TV 2 documentary has made it clear that new information has become available to enable the Attorney General to reconsider the possibility of taking action against the Grimhøjmoskeen. Then we could at least take that step and go a little further than before today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304140908	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304140909	Thank you. I would prefer not to anticipate any conclusion. In other words, as I understand it and the Minister of Justice knows much more about it than I do, and then he has to be dragged into the debate down here in the Chamber. The police are looking at the statements that have been made recently. I think that is the very best thing I have it quite, one can say, basic reservation at wisdom by just closing a mosque, which I have said here today, that even if you could, you have to think well about, in relation to what the effects of it are in the real world: do you create martyrdom for people who move their hate somewhere else, so that it creates further polarization? I think we should think this through properly. But the first place to start is that we now have some statements about ties, which we all distance ourselves from, and which are assessed from out here, that is from my position, and indeed at least heard with ordinary laymen's ears contain quite precise instructions to do things that are not legal in Danish society, and I think the police must investigate that. That's what we have them for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304141039	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304141041	Yes, and I agree, of course, that it is a good thing that the police investigate the conditions and not the thinking of the Aarhus model that you just take a dialogue, but that you actually go to the bite and see what has been exceeded by Danish legislation. But I must also say that there is now a widening gap between what the Danes expect from action and what they actually deliver. When the Prime Minister has an integration minister who here the other day, in response to these things, said that she thinks that the mosque should be leveled, then one cannot really imagine the Danes thinking that something really is happening. And if it then runs into the sand and not actually very much happens, but that in the luckiest case you might find something that you can come for in criminal law, a single remark or something like that, then I just think that there will be a bigger and bigger slip between what the Danes expect from action and the action that is actually delivered.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304141132	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304141134	Well, I think that's an excellent analysis that I kind of fully share. That is why I have no ambition for things to slip into the sand either. I actually have an idea that this whole subject should be pursued. In my optics, we must start by not increasing the problem. That is why, in the midst of a refugee and migration crisis, we have used all our political energy to tighten the conditions of residence and other things to try to control the number so that it does not grow further out of our hands. Then it's about attacking the radicalised environments. We have taken a number of steps on traitor regulations, on appropriations for the police and other things that make it possible to enter the radicalised environments, on exit programmes, etc. And I stand here today announcing that we are now looking at what we can do more in the fight against hate preachers, and I am also announcing that we must return to what is already in the government's constitution about a ghetto plan that is faithful to the values that were in our 2010 plan, that is, what was the purpose of making a ghetto plan and can follow it up. So I have no ambition for anything to run into the sand, but I also have no ambition for now to give a very open analysis, to stand here and offer some prospect that we will just do something if I do not have a certain knowledge that we can also deliver on it afterwards, because I think that would also send a negative signal to our people and an overly positive signal to those people who abuse our freedoms to try to fight our societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304141317	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304141324	Well, I also sign for the things that have been said by the Prime Minister. And, as some have mentioned in the debate, it is basically the case that it is not enough just to close a mosque, but it may be important to do so together with many of the other initiatives that are then being tried to deal with these environments. The reason why you can become a little pessimistic about whether it works is that many of these things have just been said many times, not only the Prime Minister's party has sat in government and said so, but other governments have said so in the past without anything happening. I would just remind you of a Social Democratic radical government that let things go, even though they said they would do something in this area in relation to Danish values. So what I would like to ask the Prime Minister to comment to the Danish Parliament is: When the Minister of Integration says that she really thinks that you should level the Grimm Mosque with the ground, then there is a content in it; then it is not just a few words, then the government is actually going to act after it if not now, then later.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304141439	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304141440	Well, it's gonna be a bit of a repeat of what I've already said. I mean, the government has no ambition to sit on its hands and observe that our society is being undermined. Because that's kind of what we're looking at. That's what we're looking at. And we must fight that as best we can not with empty symbolism, but with something that works. We have a police; the police are currently looking, as I am told, at the concrete things that have now been rolled out and rolled out. And then you have to see: what are the options there? We are looking at what further initiatives we can take in a piece of legislation that we have already tightened up together, such as this one. Thus, it makes it possible to reject preachers of hatred at the border and how it can be made operational. I mentioned that we had officials in Britain quite recently to look at: what can we do more? I've announced that we'll take this seriously and take a look at it. But to stand here and conclude, by the way, also on what would be a very uncertain legal basis, in relation to what the scope of the Danish Constitution is • that now we are just taking the initiative to close a mosque and then wake up in 2 days and find out that law is not enough to do so; that is, if that were what happened, would be to put an action in perspective that we could not then deliver on, and then it would seem exactly the opposite of what we would like to achieve. So what I can say here is that we are looking at this whole problem with the same seriousness as the one of the author's party, and we are discovering in different areas what we have of the possibilities of action. And I do not rule out any steps, but nor do I stand and announce that we can make a political decision that closes the Grimhøjmosque.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304141628	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304141631	I am glad that the government does not reject this possibility. At least we've come this far. But I must also say that there is a little distance between saying, on the one hand, that one wants to close the mosque and level it down and, on the other hand, saying that one will not reject the possibility. But having said that, I also sign for what the Prime Minister says about the entry of imams, and there I would like to ask the Prime Minister if it should not be the government's policy. Perhaps it is so already that we are doing the same thing as France, England and some of the other countries where, at the border line, we simply say no to extreme imams being able to enter the country. For a long time we have wanted it to be this way in Denmark, and that is an opportunity. If the other countries do so, in spite of possible EU rules that would prevent it, can not Denmark, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304141726	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304141727	Yes, but that is exactly what the Minister of Integration is looking at at at the moment, and I would like to refer to her, and I will also allow myself to have the expectation, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, that there will be a dialogue on these issues. In other words, as I can read from the immigration legislation that we ourselves have created, we have certain options for action, and I am not an expert, but we are currently looking at whether we can make it more operational. Can we make things more efficient and put a harder stop down than we already do today? As far as I am aware, very recently we have also had officials abroad, specifically in Britain, to try to pick up experience, and I have an expectation that the Minister of Integration will follow this up. And this will also happen in a dialogue with the Danish People's Party and other parties, if there is a need to take, you might say, further political decisions in order to do more than we already do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304141831	Then it is time to thank the Prime Minister for today's work. The last one on the list is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304141843	Thank you. I think it has been an extremely exciting debate and an interesting day we have had here. It's been many hours, but it's been good. Thank you especially to the Prime Minister. He is right when he says there is a new realism on the way, and perhaps it has already been under way for a long time. If I think back to similar debates we've had years ago, please keep me safe. I'd rather not think about what it was like. It was sad that once again we failed to get rid of this Grimhøjmoské, so it is also a good day for the Imams in that mosque that again we failed to do so. I think, however, and I have a hope that there is a chance. We feel that the evidence is there, and I also believe that, as we see more of the broadcasts that TV 2 has so brilliantly made, we will see further evidence of something we have also heard about over the years. Akkari, which I have mentioned, is a very good source with lots of statements that we can use. Of course, we wanted this to take place within the framework of the Constitution and pointed out what is called Paragraph 78 (1) of the Constitution. 2 and 3 to dissolve associations and then take the fight in court afterwards. It is the Supreme Court, moreover, which is the first body to judge in such cases. So we think the evidence is there. Then you say, "Well, maybe they'll move somewhere else." Yeah, it may happen, but then this is solved. Well, that's the way I've been compared to illegal gambling houses moving from one basement room to another. Yeah, but they do because they're being shut down where they are. That is a good way to start, and I also hope that, in the wake of it, if we succeed, we will be able to tackle others. Sir. Naser Khader expressed it by saying that they should be stressed. Yes, they do. They need to be stressed so that they find out that it is not good karma, for now to use the expression, to say as they do here in Denmark. I think that although there is a new realism, there is still a lack of understanding of what it really is, what it really is, Islamist criticism is about what is really going on in these Islamic environments, some of which are both violent and glorifying cults, and where there has been large-scale production of warriors for IS among other terrorist organisations. That you are surprised that you are shocked every time, I have also experienced for years, from what almost 15 years ago started around the Grimhøjmosque. We are always surprised, and perhaps we should not be surprised, because that is how it works. The moderate imams would like to be supported. I just want to meet one of them. Well, I have not yet managed to find an imam that will publicly stand out and say that the Koran is subordinate to Danish law and Danish law. Imam education is mentioned. But the degree programmes we have at the universities in Denmark are critical. It is education where questions are asked. It lies in the very scientific way of working to ask questions about things, and you cannot do that here, because when you are imam, no questions are asked to the Koran in principle. So a university degree in a scientific environment where no questions can be asked is an impossibility for me. There have been many revelations, but what happens in the future? What I just don't want to happen again is that a few weeks after the last broadcast has been shown, and then we'll forget it safely until the next revelation comes in five years. I very much do not want that to happen, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party are at least ready to stick to this, and we look forward to the talks that the Prime Minister has already indicated will come with the Minister for Integration. Now we have to finish the broadcasts and see what is really evidence. And, of course, the police will get to the first thing and see where it goes. But again: Thank you very much to all those who have participated in this immensely exciting debate. Thanks for today, and good weekend.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142313	But Mr. Søren Espersen has inspired a brief comment, and we will take it with us. It's from sir. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142322	Thank you. Sir. When I stood on the platform, Søren Espersen was somewhat pricked by the fact that I allowed myself to refer to the fact that the Danish People's Party has members who believe that the right of rebuke should be reinstated. I just want to stress that, of course, I'm not saying that giving a cheek horse is the same as rocking a woman to death. That is not what I am saying, but I say that in Denmark it is forbidden to beat children, and it must be. So just to emphasize it, since it is a debate on Danish values, Mr. So, Søren Espersen doesn't respond to Mrs. Marie Krarup's statement that it's okay to beat children in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142405	I think it's a good thing that Mr. Dan Jørgensen said there's still a small difference. Yes, there is, and that is why I do not think it belongs in this debate either. I can only state briefly and precisely: the right of reproof has been abolished and it will never be reinstated again. And if it ever comes to a vote in the Folketing, I can guarantee that all 37 members of the Danish People's Party will say no to it. That's it! Unlike other parties, we have a good deal of control over our people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142437	Yeah, well, I don't know how you make each other do it if you're not allowed to be corporal, but peace be with it. I just want to hear about something. When we talk about these problems, we hear that the Danish People's Party does not have a solution, but two solutions. One solution is, of course, that Muslims should not go to Denmark at all. Even if you succeed in closing the borders tomorrow, there are still those who are here, so that is hardly a viable solution. The second solution is to close the mosque, despite the fact that the Danish People's Party also recognises that it will probably just move the problem. So if we could just ignore the two solutions, what is it really that the Danish People's Party presents of solutions to the problems we face? I have not yet heard a single solution from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142518	I think it is a perfectly crystal clear proposal. Get rid of that mosque! It's the heart of this. It is in the same way that we have warned against, for example. construction of storm masks a la what you see in England in Regent's Park, etc. It's gonna be the hot spot for Islamism. That's what you've seen. It is the Grimhøjmosque, it is the hottest place for Islamism of the worst drawer, that is where you hatch, perhaps not the majority, but a lot of IS warriors. So it's important to close that place. It is, as we have expressed it, a plague over Denmark to have it lying where it lies. So that is a very precise answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142607	It seems more inspiring when Mr. Søren Espersen speaks: Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen from the Enhedslisten wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142615	Thank you. I just need to make sure I've understood Mr. Simpson. Søren Espersen correct. Do they mean statements, sir? Søren Espersen has come with us now. I understand that in the Danish People's Party you really have control of the ranks, or what to say, the members of the parliament... Søren Espersen disapproves of Mrs Marie Krarup's statement that it is okay to beat children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142645	I don't want to get into that. I understand, therefore, that Mrs Krarup, in a context which is six or seven weeks away, is dealing with a number of fundamental issues relating to the right of rebuke. This is an attitude that we have also had in the Danish People's Party. I must stress that when the right of reproof was abolished, we were opposed to it. We wanted it to be maintained. But we have also realised that that debate is over. Well, there are some things that it is no use continuing with because it will not have any time on earth. There we are pragmatic and there we are realists. I don't have to distance myself from her or her father, sir. Søren Krarup, or myself, who at that time was opposed to abolishing the right of reproof. That was just our position of principle, precisely because it was a relationship between parents and children, which was of a very private nature. It was a position of principle, but it does not mean that any of us, by the way, are putting our children in the hands of our children in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142744	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142745	It is true that it was a few weeks ago that Mrs Marie Krarup, a member of the Danish Parliament for the Danish People's Party, said that it was okay to beat children. I don't think 6-7 weeks have been very long. Sir. Søren Espersen says it's principle. Yes, it is very much in principle whether you find it okay to beat children, and we stand in the Parliament and discuss Danish values. For me, it is quite fundamental in Danish society that we do not accept violence against children, even when it is parents who beat their children. So it must be possible for Mr. Søren Espersen clearly and unmistakeably from the platform today to denounce Mrs Marie Krarup's statement that it is okay to beat children. Surely you cannot both think that it should be forbidden to beat children and, at the same time, would not object to Mrs Krarup's statements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142847	No, I don't want to. We have a law in Denmark that makes it not allowed, and that is it. We follow that law, I can guarantee that we 37 members of the Danish People's Party. We follow the law. But I do not want to be involved in such a philosophical and fundamental debate, in which I have 30 seconds to respond. No, Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, I simply do not want to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142909	It inspires colleagues further. Sir. Marcus Knuth from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142914	Thank you very much. I would like to start by signing for it, because I agree that what you hear from the Grimhøjmosque is the worst thing that Islamism brings with it. But I still don't understand why the Danish People's Party is so focused on this one mosque, when this is something that has deep roots deep down in society and elsewhere. Is it because there has just been a focus on it on television, or is it because the Danish People's Party actually believes that with a single mosque closure this will be destroyed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304142946	No, we don't do that with a single mosque closure. That's what I've said before. Sir. Naser Khader, who is very much involved in things, has been able to say that it is perhaps 15 or 20 mosques in Denmark, probably also many here in Copenhagen. It's not that. But let's start somewhere. For me, frankly, it makes no sense that when you discover something that is contrary to Danish law in this way, you say that well yes, but we can't just do this, because there are probably others too. That doesn't make any sense. I've compared it to having such a gambling room somewhere in a basement, and then the police aren't closing it because then it's just moving somewhere else. I mean, I think it's important to say that now we're dealing with this. That's the worst part. We just got the documentation. We know the Grimhøjmosque for 15 years. It's not getting any better, it's getting worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143035	Since today's debate, when it arrived, wasn't about this one mosque alone, why doesn't the Danish People's Party come up with a wide range of solutions? I think that could be very interesting to debate. After all, we are making a number of proposals ourselves, and I would be very interested to hear what the Danish People's Party has in mind in terms of solving it here as a whole. So it would be very, very welcome if we made more than this one proposal to close a building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143107	I don't think that's fair, sir. Marcus Knuth, because we are actually in full swing over negotiations with the government on a whole series of things. One of the things that is at the top of our ballot paper, I almost said, is the permanent reintroduction of border controls with full border controls, with police and customs officials. That's where it starts. That's where we start looking for our own boundaries. We must also take citizenship from people such as the United Kingdom. Abu Bilal, who has been mentioned several times in this. He has been granted Danish citizenship. When you can do it and give it to him by law, you can take it from him again. That's other things. I could mention piles of things, but I don't think I have the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143147	That's right. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left has the next brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143154	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is in favour of the East Jutland Police investigation into the case that it has called for violence here imam, and whether the rapporteur generally believes that such cases should be reported to the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143214	I hope, as I have seen in the statements by the East Jutland Police, that when the series of broadcasts is completed, we will look at what is possible to indict some of the people. It's what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143229	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143230	So it is good that police report calls for violence, including calls to beat your children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143238	Well, this is in a completely different ball street. As I also said in my introduction, we are talking here about imams which tell us that whipping is as it should be. When it is executions, the stoning of unfaithful women, that one should stay with one's husband, even if he intends to rape one when he wants to, etc., it is something quite different that we are talking about. There it will become apparent whether there is a basis for raising charges against individuals. Of course, the police and the prosecution will have to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143314	Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143319	It's for mr. Søren Espersen's answer to Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen: Does it really require such a longer philosophical explanation to inform this House whether it is considered to be a Danish value that you have to bang your kids a few flats? Do we really need to spend more than 30 seconds informing this House whether it is a Danish value?
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143344	It's forbidden by criminal law. I do not want this debate to be a debate on the statements that have been made on a very large subject of principle, which we have been discussing in Parliament for many, many years. I just don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143359	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143400	When discussing Danish values in the Parliamentary Chamber, it is reasonable to ask whether it is for the Danish People's Party and Mr. Søren Espersen is part of the series of Danish values that you can fuck your kids a few on the box. This is not part of my view of what are Danish values, on the contrary. That is why I do not think it is unreasonable to ask whether it is part of what we stand for in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143429	An important part of the Danish values is that you comply with the criminal code and comply with Danish laws. Then I won't have to say anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143437	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is over. I would like to thank everyone for their efforts in a very comprehensive debate. The vote on the three proposals for adoption will take place, as I said, on Tuesday 15 March 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143502	I would say that the negotiations have been opened. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erik Christensen for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143521	Thank you. Technological developments are moving rapidly, not least in the drone sector. This is very positive, but it also means that there is a need for regulation of the area, and not least companies and investors in the drone area demand regulation and guidelines if they are to continue to develop the area and create new jobs. We therefore need balanced regulation which provides both a clear framework for the use of drones by professionals and individuals and ensures the necessary considerations for flight and personal safety, privacy, the fight against terrorism, etc. In addition, we need to be able to adapt and develop the regulation of the area in line with technological developments. Therefore, it might also be appropriate to consider whether we should evaluate the draft law after a year, not least in view of the speed with which technological developments are actually taking place in the drone sector. The former Social Democratic Government took the initiative to set up an inter-ministerial working group, which last year produced a report containing a number of recommendations for the regulation of civilian drones. These are the recommendations that are now being followed up with this bill. The draft law suggests that it should continue to be illegal for private people to fly with smaller drones in urban areas. Smaller drones are defined as drones weighing less than 25 kg. Professionals must also continue to acquire drone certificates to fly in urban areas. Outside urban areas, private people will be allowed to fly with smaller drones if the drone master acquires a drone sign or is a member of a recognised model flight organisation. The proposal also proposes a de minimis limit so that drones under 250 g, so-called microdrons and toy drones, will be subject to very few rules. On the socialist side, we are very concerned that we find the right balance in regulating the area. On the one hand, we must ensure privacy and safety, and on the other hand, we must also take advantage of the opportunities for jobs and growth that lie within the drone area, because there is no doubt that there are great opportunities in drones. That is why I believe that it would be a great advantage if Denmark were to take the lead, including with regard to regulation in this area. At Funen Hans Christian Andersen Airport invests in becoming a leading test and innovation centre in Europe, where you can test and develop the drone technology of the future, and the University of Southern Denmark has established the first drone education of its kind in Europe. It's for good reason. The number of drone operators has already increased from 15 to 165 in 2 years, and that figure is expected to double in 2016. In addition, an analysis from Oxford Research concludes that the development of civil drones can create up to 15,000 new Danish jobs in the future. So the potential for drone technology must be said to be great. Many industries such as agriculture, the maritime sector, the offshore industry and the municipalities will be able to use the new technology with great advantage, and drones can help to ensure an overview of accidents, whether there is a fire or distressed at sea. In the long term, for example, package delivery with drones can also be a reality. If Denmark is to have a leading position in drone technology and thus ensure growth and jobs for the country, it requires political will and determination, and we are actually ready for that from the Socialist side. With today's bill, I think we are taking an important step in that direction. With the bill, we ensure the Danish drone industry simple and clear legislation and thus a head start when it has to adapt and benefit from future EU legislation in this area, which is only expected to enter into force in three years' time. As I have said, we are also concerned about ensuring privacy, and that is why, in the context of the committee work too, we want to go further into the question of the proposed rules for the so-called microdrones or toy drones in urban areas. We believe that there is a need to be very sharp when it comes to flying these drones in urban areas, in case they can be equipped with cameras. It is important for us to ensure that citizens cannot be photographed on their own property against their will. Finally, it should be noted that the draft law also contains proposals for adapting the OSH area so that the rules for airport operators' staff are uniform, whether they are on the ground or in the air. The last element of the bill is an adjustment to the so-called safety contribution paid by each passenger. The contribution finances the supervisory activities of the Danish Transport and Construction Authority. The contribution is reduced from 6 DKK. to DKK 5.50, so that there is a balance between the contribution and the cost associated with the supervisory activity. All in all, with these comments, I can say that the Socialists welcome the proposal, but also look forward to further consideration by the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304143953	Thank you, sir. Erik Christensen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen for Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304144001	Thank you. I shall not dwell on the countless possibilities inherent in precisely the use of drones, both scientific and more professional. Then, of course, a certain abuse of this kind of drone can occur. The EU is working on legislation, the proposal says. I would just like to say that it is good that Denmark is, for once, ahead of the European Union in terms of legislation. Then I just hope that when the European Union finally gets together to make some legislation, we will then, as usual, correct the right and change our legislation so that it is in harmony with the European Union. After all, the European Union must now look for what we are doing up here in Denmark for once. I was just saying that there are different elements in this. There is, in fact, what concerns business opportunities and they are innumerable. Then, of course, there is the concern for security, and then there is the last privacy. The last one is the little toy drones. I have no objection, as was the previous rapporteur who was up here, to looking a little closer in that area, so we are quite sure that you cannot fly into people's living rooms and sleeping rooms etc. With these little toy drones. But all in all, this proposal offers really good opportunities. At least I know you're really happy about this at Odense Airport. I think this is something that really gives business opportunities and opportunities for jobs, so of course we fully support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304144130	Thank you, sir. Kim Christiansen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304144140	Thank you for that, President. I want to start by stating that drones are of great value to society. They have, because drones, compared to traditional aircraft and helicopters, can solve a wide range of tasks faster, cheaper and more environmentally friendly due to their low energy consumption and low CO2 drones, will thus be able to be used both to streamline and facilitate existing tasks, but also to carry out work that is not being done today. There are, for example: a potential for agriculture in the field of field monitoring, including: for the analysis of soil and plant conditions. In addition, there are a large number of other tasks that drones can solve. However, the industry is looking for a clear framework for the drones. The purpose of this bill is precisely to create balanced regulation for drones. On the one hand, clear rules and conditions of growth for business must be ensured. Among other things: there is a dawning, good business around Odense, but also elsewhere in the country. On the other hand, the rules must take into account safety and counter illegal use, including illegal surveillance in violation of privacy. In concrete terms, the bill envisages a change in the law on aviation, so drone flying in urban areas, like today, will only be permitted for professional purposes and will require standardized competence requirements for the drone master in the form of the acquisition of a drone certificate, that is, a kind of drone driving licence. Outside urban areas where the risk of injury and breach of privacy rules is reduced, the drone master must have knowledge of the most basic rules for drone-flight operations when acquiring a drone sign. In addition, the bill makes clear demands on the visibility of drones for authorities and citizens, as well as digital identification in favour of the security aspect, so that you can always see who is flying where. The draft law will, overall, lead to a reduction in business, particularly due to the reduction of administrative burdens on industry in the drone sector. In addition, the bill also takes into account the fact that some drones are toys for children and young people, the tiny drones, and it is therefore proposed that a small limit of 250 g be introduced. Drones below that limit will be subject to only a few rules. To sum up, it is a good and balanced bill that the Left can support. I should like to welcome the rapporteurs of the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304144430	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. And then we go to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304144444	So we're probably among those who are a little bit more sceptical about this bill. The first thing I noticed was that the draft law is filled with a whole series of authorisation provisions, i.e. in fact delegation provisions. It is written in many places that this must be determined by further determination. I've been counting on it, there's no less than 13. I'm sure there'll be more. But I have counted for at least 13 such powers. And it's not really something we like very much in the Enhedslisten, but it reflects, of course, that this is an area in rapid development and transformation and that you really have no control over it. And so that we do not have to sit here every two months and adopt new legislative proposals in this area, a number of authorisation provisions will then be applied. But it's not good. The aim is, of course, to ensure safety. It's also to create security for people so you don't get a drone in your head. They're actually falling, and more and more of them are coming. But it is also, of course, very serious to ensure privacy. There I think we may actually have the biggest problem, because once they are equipped with camera • there are other rapporteurs who have mentioned it • then, in my opinion, we have a problem with all kinds of drones, including the very small so-called toy drones. I note that at the last minute there has been a consultation response from the Data Protection Agency which was not on the list of consultation parties. I have already requested an addition to the consultation note, commenting on what has come from the Data Protection Agency on this issue. The regulation is risk-based, and this means, of course, that the bill is also organised according to how much damage can be done and how bad people can get hurt. There is no doubt that drones have come to stay, and they have even come to stay in a very, very large style. I have no doubt about that, and that is also the problem. Therefore, regulation and requirements are necessary for drone drivers. We think it is a good thing that a weight limit of 25 kg is maintained, but we think it is bad that it can be changed administratively, because we have no doubt that this means changes upwards. The drones will then become heavier and heavier, as long as you can point out that they are becoming more and more safe. We do not find that reassuring. We don't think it's right to make a de minimis limit on these 250 grams, during which flight is given completely free without requirements for drone drivers and without restrictions, virtually. We are not enthusiastic about this, because at the same time some powers are being created to allow microdrones in urban settlements, if, for example, they do. It's in parks. I can imagine the King's Garden on a sunny day. There are thousands of people. If it is to be allowed for an 8-year-old to fly around with a microdrone there, I am not safe, simply. In fact, we think that the municipalities should be given some opportunities in this respect to define certain defined areas where they can be allowed to fly with them here and where they do not bother other people. In fact, we think this could be a huge problem when people in their spare time, for example. Staying in parks etc. if the air is thick with drones, so-called toy drones and smaller drones at all. We think that can easily be the situation. They are so cheap to buy eventually, and if anyone can fly with them, we really think we have a problem. We think it is good that some zones of prohibition, including particularly sensitive natural areas, are being created. We think that is absolutely necessary. We really believe that very great damage can be done with noisy drones in sensitive natural areas. We think it's bad that you make a so-called drone sign. It is a purely information tool. I would say that it is actually easier to get than to pull a proof in a vending machine. It's a computer test, it's self-service, and it's just information about basic rules. There is no record of the drone sign and there is no control of it. You have to be able to show it at the request of the police, but there is no registration. The police have nowhere to refer to. In fact, we think that all drones should only be able to fly if you have a drone certificate required in connection with urban flight and where we think it is good that we can only take place for professional purposes. We simply think that this bill is too weak, too uncertain, it does not quite fulfil the purpose of personal security and privacy, and we look forward to an extended consultation note on the Data Protection Agency's comments. Then there is the question of working conditions. There you will go as in the other legislation on health and safety now from five to ten employees to create a safety organisation. We were opposed when, at the time, the legislation on working conditions was changed, when it went from five to ten employees as a requirement in the legislation on working conditions, and therefore we are also opposed to doing so in this area. Because it has deteriorated in one area, we do not think it should be done in another area, so we are going to table amendments to remove this from the legislative proposal. In addition, we have no comment on the issue of the traffic and construction authority's oversight of aviation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304145046	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304145052	Thank you. Let it be said straight away: we think it is sensible and necessary to draw up guidelines in this area so that we do not have to worry about the increasing number of exemptions just because the legislation has not taken account of this technology. We are also pleased that we are proceeding calmly if we can put it that way, because there is no doubt that the area will develop and that somewhere the legislation will be craving. In this light too, you should then see the relatively large number of powers. We also think that a good balance has been struck in the regulatory regime that is being exercised in both cities and countries, where, of course, the risk of safety is not at all the same. We should not shoot grey sparrows with cannons, and certainly not in the countryside, and I do not think you do that here either. When you operate with a drone sign in such a relatively simple way as it is outlined, I am sure it is possible to live with. For the Liberal Alliance, it is particularly important to protect privacy, and it does not matter whether it is violated by the public or the private sector, and we believe that this regulation can contribute to this. With these comments, we recommend the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304145215	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304145221	Thank you very much. Several other rapporteurs have carefully examined the proposal, so I will not withdraw the negotiations by doing so. On the other hand, I would like to talk about the fact that it is always difficult for the legislation to keep up with technical progress and technological developments, and it will not be easier when the rate of development increases and increases. That is why it is also important that this proposal includes a number of options for constantly updating that legislation so that it is better able to escape from developments. The drone industry is still in its infancy, and given the potential for development, we believe that this opens the way for a future Danish export and development adventure. We have a regional test centre in Odense, as others have said. We would like to see this become a national test centre, and we would like to see it incorporated into the legislation as well. It is important that in this legislation we are already looking a good deal further ahead than what we can just see in front of us. In particular, the development of the flight Beyond Visual Line of Sight will be a core development area for the drone industry in the coming years, and we should crunch up the track both for the test centre and for all the companies, including international ones, who are developing in this area and who want to make use of the test centre so that they are not held back by having to seek exemptions for every small new project, but that we already take a position here on this possibility for the future too. I am, of course, aware that the legal notes state that this type of flight is only at the test stage and that experience needs to be gained in this area and that the flight beyond sight will eventually be able to move to the standardised conditions. But I would very much like us to continue the Minister's forward-looking wishes in the drone field even further here in the bill, so that we can secure a potentially large Danish niche profession. It is clear that we also need to pay full attention to the safety aspect of drone flying, both in relation to drone standards, which we are already doing under the auspices of the European Union, but also in relation to flight rights, weight limits and other safety parameters. I see that a good piece of work has been done in the proposal to address it, but I have also already received enquiries from people in the industry who are concerned about whether that is enough. The alternative therefore fully supports the proposal, but in the committee's work it wants to learn more about the safety aspects and, above all, that together we raise our eyes even higher, that is beyond our visual line of sight.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304145459	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304145513	Fortunately, new industries are constantly emerging and it is good that Denmark is taking the lead in creating jobs for the future. Everything suggests that there is a great potential for drones in the future. But that also means that we need to adapt the legislation in terms of security and in terms of protecting privacy when drones fly over private property. It is probably not the last time that the Danish Parliament has taken a step towards regulation in this area, and the question of whether this bill has now also been cleared up in every corner. But it is certainly a step in the right direction. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304145600	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304145608	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for their good reception, because that is how I see it. There's no doubt that this is an area where we have to figure out what to do with caution. I have high expectations of the opportunities that drones can create in our society in both the short and the long term. Today, we can safely see that drones are far more than toys. It can also strengthen business and make it easier to solve regulatory tasks if we get a good way of dealing with it. This, of course, also allows jobs to be created. In fact, it is expected that in the drone sector up to 2050, up to 150 000 new jobs can be created in the European Union. I think we should certainly take advantage of that here in Denmark, and I also think that we have good conditions for doing so. After all, we in the government have put growth and jobs high on the agenda, and I can promise that we will also do our best in the drone area to get the very best framework for business. I would just like to mention that efforts are being made in the European Union to establish common drone rules and that we must expect a minimum of 2-3 years to pass before the negotiations are completed and final rules are in place. I simply do not think we can wait for this because the industry is calling for a clear framework and better conditions, and that is why we are now putting forward the proposal. With new rules, we can help Denmark become a pioneer country when it comes to exploiting the great potential of drones. In the first place, we need to update the aviation law, and the draft law is based on two key words, namely business promotion and security, and the draft law will make it easier to be drone business, both administratively and financially. We remove the requirement for exemption from the aviation law for companies, which means that a great burden will disappear for them. Safety will be sought by requiring the drone masters to be competent. In other words, we will have to demand training and knowledge of the rules so that users know what they can and cannot do. There will be a personal drone sign and a drone certificate, which means what you could call a driving licence. This is similar to what we know from other modes of transport, it creates greater flexibility in the labour market, and it is important in an industry that develops and needs dynamism. Security will also be sought by demanding that the drones be visible to authorities and citizens. Already today the drone must wear a physical mark, but we would like to go further in the form of a digital ID such a kind of electronic license plate for drones. With a digital license plate, we can provide people with additional security. It has to be easier to know who's flying where. And with a digital license plate, you have to be able to electronically identify the drone from a distance. With the bill, we prepare to introduce a digital license plate when the technology is ready. The bill will thus provide a good, clear and more up-to-date framework for drone flights. At the same time, it will simplify business procedures. There are also some things about privacy, because on the one hand there must be clear conditions of growth for business, but on the other hand the rules must also take into account air safety, privacy and countering their illegal use, monitoring, etc. That is also what some of the rapporteurs have said, and I should like to add a few words to that. The bill seeks to support these rules by ensuring compliance with the privacy rules. With the bill, we propose that drones above the de minimis limit may only be used in urban areas if there are professional purposes to do so. People who fly professionally in cities must have a drone certificate and, in order to obtain a drone certificate, they must have received training in relevant legislation, including provisions on privacy. The legislative proposal also ensures that areas where drones cannot be flown can be defined. For example, rules could be laid down on flying over so-called security critical areas, such as the property of the royal house, police stations, prisons, detention houses, etc. This must be done after negotiation with the Minister of Justice. But drones are also, as some people have said, toys for children and young people. We must, of course, accommodate that. That is why we are proposing the introduction of a de minimis limit for the smallest drones, i.e. drones below this weight limit will be subject to few rules. And the idea is initially to be able to set a weight limit of 250 g so that children and adults can play with drones under reasonable conditions. However, I am aware that toy and microdrones below the de minimis threshold, too, as some have said, can carry cameras. Therefore, it is also possible to lay down rules for drones that carry cameras, including drones that are below the de minimis limit. The draft law also contains changes concerning the working environment and fees, which some also mentioned. The organisation of OSH work by airlines should be simpler. Uniform rules should apply regardless of whether employees are employed on board aircraft or on land. That is why we propose that health and safety organisations be set up in companies with ten or more crew members, and in small companies with less than ten employees, the work on working conditions should be carried out through an ongoing personal dialogue between the employer and the crew members employed. And that is entirely in line with the general rules of health and safety legislation. As regards the financing of the supervision of civil aviation in the form of fees and charges, the law is aimed at achieving a better balance between revenue and costs, and it is proposed that the rate of safety contribution be reduced from DKK 6 to DKK 5.50. In order to round off a little, I would like to say that with the submission of the bill we offer opportunities for drones in Denmark. The government will do its part to give the drones a place in Danish traffic and in Danish society to the benefit of citizens and business. With the bill we are hitting the balance-sheet at least it is the intention that the rules become clearer and more up-to-date and the business case is simplified. Due consideration shall be given to security in order to better address illegal use and use in violation of privacy rules. But I would like to say here at first reading, where we have the discussion, that I think it would be a good idea if the committee and the committee themselves could take a position on this matter, was of the opinion that I could take over my experts and then we could have a technical review in committee. And then we could try to go through all these things, because I really think that you have also put some good fingerprints in the debate and said that here is something we should have looked at, and here is something we could do better, and I am very willing to do that. It is uncultivated land, so it is something that we benefit greatly from helping each other to get the work done. I would also like to say that if anyone wants to table some amendments because they think that something needs to be adjusted here, we are more than helping it, because it is a question of finding a model in which we can all see ourselves. Because I think this will only be a good success if we all agree that this is how it should work, and otherwise it is really an area that can give us great problems in defining all sorts of things. So I'm very, very prepared that we could come over and try to fix it if you're interested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304150336	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304150340	I think that is a very good thing, I think that is quite clear, and I think that on behalf of the committee I can say immediately that we will of course accept that. It could really be that we needed to get out and try to get a technical review of the drone and how to fly with it. I'd love to. I've never done that before. I think that what I also said in my rapporteur's speech is a good thing that a drone certificate is introduced and that, in urban development, only drones can be used for professional purposes, which I think is very sensible. But you then open up the door so that they can be flown without drone proof in urban development, that is, in parks, you say so, and I mentioned it in my rapporteur's speech, and I think it raises some concerns. Because it's anyone who can fly with them, there's no age requirements or anything, and I think that's what I think we agree on, too, that there's a lot of them coming, and they can be very, very annoying to people. As you know, they're not silent. They're the ones I know of, at least not so I think it can be very annoying for people in a park or at a beach to have them swarming around them. For everyone can really use them, and there's no requirement for education other than this drone sign that you can, so to speak, go to the computer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304150506	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304150507	Yes, but I'm not going to deny that sir. Henning Hyllested has a point here. 'Cause I heard sir. Henning Hyllested's speech, and it also gives me an opportunity to try to consider whether there was a point in it, i.e. whether we have been a little too fresh in allowing it in some places. I am very concerned that this should be something sensible that we will have handled in a way that everyone can be satisfied with, and I will not deny that there is a point in us having to look at it again with the parks. I would say that it is in the proposal that there are some areas where we can simply say that we do not want them here. So I would certainly like to be accommodating to it and have a talk about it, and I would also like to go home and see if there is any experience we can include.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304150553	Nor should a minister address people directly, so this is according to the rules. Here you go, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304150602	I think that is a very nice approach, which I naturally welcome. But I have another little appeal. Because it kind of makes me feel like you're using this concept of toy drone, also because the development in this area is really fast, and that's how it gives associations to young children running around. But even drones under 250 grams are not innocent devices, and the Minister himself said that they can actually be equipped with cameras. There must then be some rules on this, and I think that is a good thing, but there is no requirement for training, and it is also an educational tool. So I think you should try to think about that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304150644	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304150645	I'd like to answer that, sir. Henning Hyllested in the affirmative. I would like us to try to assess whether there was something we could do better to make sure that the training also goes with it. Actually, I share sir. Henning Hyllested's view that when you just look 5-10 years ahead, you can really risk getting many of them, and that can be an advantage, but it can also come down to some drawbacks, which is why we have to think very carefully before we let this go. Because it will be something that will happen in a completely different way than what we have seen so far. So, sir. Henning Hyllested can expect me to take part in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304150724	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304150739	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Rasmus Prehn as the first rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304150759	All of us who have tried to drive on one of the country's many motorway roads may have thought that it was a very good road direction here, a safe road, but also a road where it would make good sense to drive a little faster than it is allowed today. On most motorway roads there are signs of 90 km/h, on a few there are signs of up to 80 km/h, but since these are roads in good condition and where there is security in the interior, it also seems to make sense to drive a bit faster. That is why we in the Socialist Group are also in favour of the proposal that the government is making here, looking soberly at what kind of roads we have, and also looking at what is realistic, still away with due regard for the safety that must be on the roads. I think we are all extremely concerned about road safety. We should not put safety at risk, but we know with the experience we have from motorway routes that it makes sense to increase speed, and that is also what the draft law is proposing here. When you make such a change, it must of course be the case that if someone is going too fast then it must also have clear consequences. It is therefore also a good thing that the government is proposing that the draft law should ensure that the same rules apply to motorways, that is to say, if speed limits are violated there, then we will also have a severe penalty, and so will we if we go too fast on an expressway. So it makes sense, it's connected. So from the Socialist side, we can support this proposal. It might be an idea to put in an evaluation paragraph so that we have looked at it after a number of years and see what the consequence of this is, whether it has gone as we have predicted, whether it is as safe as we had imagined, or whether some problems have arisen that we need to think about. Another thing I would like to use the first reading to ask a few questions about is that we have heard, time and time again, in particular, the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Robles Piquer. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, mention that the Left is willing to also look at the speed of our roads. Now we know that we must pay close attention to the issue of road safety. We also had the debate when Mr. Kim Christiansen, from the Danish People's Party, had a motion for a resolution in this Chamber about precisely the road issue, but there it has sounded like the Left was prepared to look at selected roads too, i.e. the places where there are safe conditions and where it might make sense to speed up to perhaps 90 km/h. It may surprise us a little from the Socialist side that, when we have had that discussion in this Chamber, we do not include it in the legislative proposal. But okay, it's positive that you start with the highways. We know that these are roads that are in a good constitution, where security is in order, where there is a possibility of increasing speed to a slightly higher limit, and that is why we can support this proposal. We will support that, but with the proposal that you could look at evaluating it after a period of time. However, we are positive about this and support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304151116	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304151121	It is possible that I have misread, and it may be that the rapporteur will be able to clarify it for me. I think I have read out in the proposal that the penalty actually falls on those sections of the motorway which we now have to drive 100 km/h. They must be compared with those motorways where it is permitted to drive 100 km/h. or above. But in the past, motorway roads were categorized as other roads, and the penalty was higher for the same offences. But it's possible I've read wrong. I'm not gonna be able to say that. That is why I was surprised by the rapporteur's statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304151211	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304151213	What I have taken as a starting point is that it is simply written into the draft law, that the same set of rules as we know from motorways is what will also apply on these motorways. I have understood that this was a sharpening of the situation. It may well be that this is not really the case. Well, we'll have to take a look at that, because Mr. Enhedslisten's... Henning Hyllested may well have a point in that if you even reduce the fine, there may be a less incentive to comply with this. We must ask actively about this. Again, as always, as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, I would like to thank Mr Enhedslisten for being awake and reading down in detail and paying attention to things. It helps to increase the quality of the legislative work here in the Folketing, i.e. when you have very awake rapporteurs as Enhedslistens sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304151302	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304151316	In the Danish People's Party too, we think this is a very good proposal. There's a lot of talk about speed with sense, and like Mr. Knox... Rasmus Prehn mentioned that we ourselves have tabled a motion for a resolution to increase the speed of the current 80 km/h on selected lines. on the road to 90 km/h. And I am surprised that the Minister has not seized the opportunity and then hastened to have it written into this bill, but now it is only a first reading, so much can be achieved yet. We are constantly building better and better and more road safety roads, which is why there is common sense in the fact that speed follows in those places where road safety is justified. The Council for Safe Transport has also supported this increase in speed from 90 km/h. 100 km/h. on some stretches. And then I agree with Mr. Rasmus Prehn, when he says that then, of course, there must also be a penalty if we give the drivers the opportunity to drive a little stronger, we also demand that that is what is being respected. And I am prepared to discuss during the committee's work whether or not the penalties should be tightened up a little when drivers are running on the wrong side of that border. As far as the evaluation is concerned, as chairman of the Road Safety Commission, I can promise that we in the Commission will keep an eye on how the accident figures will develop on these sections where speed increases. So I feel like I'm actually in safe hands. As a starting point, the Danish People's Party will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304151500	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304151512	Thank you. The Left wants a Denmark in balance where citizens are not forced to settle in the big cities. It must be possible to live in a suburb or in a village and commute to work. With this bill we set a higher speed limit on motorway sections where road safety is justified and this will ensure a shorter journey time and a higher mobility for the Danes. This enables more people to get a job or maintain a job and stay in the countryside or to maintain a residence relatively far away from the workplace. This provides a great deal of flexibility in our labour market. The shorter travel time may also make it more attractive to seek out recreational activities and other activities further away from the home, thereby increasing interaction between the different areas of our country. In concrete terms, the draft law means that, depending on whether the speed limit is 80 km/h today. or 90 km/h, a travel time saving of 20 per cent, respectively. and 10%. on the safe routes in question, where the average speed of drivers is the same as the speed limit. The shorter travel time will also be of great benefit to business, which every day loses money on the bottom line if there are too long travel times. It is important when we talk speed that it is then under the heading speed with reason. There must be a good balance between mobility on the one hand, which we want to strengthen, and road safety on the other. And that is exactly what we are achieving with this bill. It must be the case that speed limits are reasonably experienced by drivers on the basis of the specific circumstances. If drivers see the speed limits as reasonable, there is a greater tendency to comply with them, thereby ultimately strengthening traffic standards and thus road safety. Then I understand that the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Prehn, is very eager to move forward with more speed, and that is a pleasant surprise. At any rate, a question has already been put to me in the rapporteur's speech, and thank you for that. It is a little unusual, but it reflects a certain eagerness to move forward, and it is positive. And I can certainly confirm that yes, the Left is very concerned about moving forward with the common sense concept on roads too. But we, like the government, want to wait for a report that is currently being prepared on the situation on the roads, where we are able to implement this differentiated speed limit, and we expect that report to come in a short time so that a legislative proposal can be put forward in the autumn. By the way, it is also a good idea, even though the government has a lot of goodies in the bag and the current government has that, I should say hello to you and say to spread the goodies a little over time and not blow it all off at once. So I look forward very much to being able to stand here in a few months' time and deal with a legislative proposal in which we can also speed up with common sense on the roads. The Left, of course, supports the bill. And I should like to welcome my good colleagues in the Radical Left and in the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304151844	Thank you. Then it is the next rapporteur who is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304151856	Thank you. Yes, yes, but we also have no doubt that there will be many so-called goodies in the future, we have seen it over a long period of time, and now they are starting to materialize. Oh, oh, oh! Yes, you can get tired of standing here on the platform and repeating yourself. The views of the Enhedslisten in this area are well known, and we have repeated our views many times from this platform. And we have to note that the good arguments that we are making of the majority of people who are more concerned with mobility and growth in car driving than are concerned with road safety, life and mobility for all who travel on the road. Now I know I'm tightening it up a little bit. Nobody wants to stand up and say that's right, but that's how we experience it. We have said very, very many times: the speed kills, higher speed causes more accidents, higher speed causes more serious accidents with more people killed and both seriously and more easily injured. And there's a close, close connection between speed and accidents, of course. It is quite common knowledge that is in possession of in the Road Directorate, in the Council for Safe Traffic, in the police and in all the other places where you have to have this knowledge. We know that too high speed is contributing to 42 per cent. of all fatal accidents in traffic in this country, and we are convinced that it will not be remedied by increasing the speed limit. On the contrary. Now more people will be able to go faster, but 100 km/h. So it's 100 km/h, no matter where it goes. So we can see that there is tremendous political pressure for the increase in speed limits and Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen confirms this in so far as the talk of the goodness is also a political pressure being exerted in here. On the other hand, we can seriously question whether it is also pressure that comes from outside. At a time when the speed is falling, the effort here is that speed limits should be raised, whether on selected vehicles or on selected road sections. The speed is falling, it is doing so as a result of an increase in control pressure, and in the same situation the majority will therefore have people drive faster, come forward faster, put life and resilience further at risk. It's a contradiction that wants something. We have seen it with Tempo 100 buses, for which we have raised the speed limit, Tempo 100 caravans are being treated at the same time as trailers, etc., there has been an amendment to the effect that the speed of heavy vehicles in cities should also be increased, and now we are dealing with L 133, and later we have proposals to increase the speed limit to 90 km/h. on roads. The political pressure, as we at least see it, along with the very hot desire for more motorways, is, of course, also a crusade for motorism. All honour and respect for what we think is just a wrong way to go, while at the same time doing what you can to tighten up or at least slow down the development of public transport. I refer to the stranded, it must be said, the Train Fund DK, to our conciliation circle around better and cheaper public transport, the dismantling of Aalborg Letbane, etc. etc. In our optics, more cars provide a worse environment, worse climate, more congestion, and it is a completely, completely wrong way to go. So we think we can see that what we are really doing is reducing the fines. Now I went in and looked at the schedule of the bill, and it turns out that I am not entirely, but only partially right. For speed overruns from 70% to 70%. It is true that the penalty will increase, but otherwise it will be even, or the penalty will fall on the 33 km of motorway lines that will now be designated to be able to be driven at 100 km/h. Allow me to make a few comments on the Safe Transport Council, because I also think that this is a remarkable consultation response delivered by the Safe Transport Council. This is the advice that has carried out a host of campaigns to improve road safety. That's the advice that has knocked it into our Danes' heads that the speed kills. I have always regarded the Council for Safe Transport as a watchdog in the field of road safety. I think that the Safe Transport Council is well in the process of compromising its integrity by gradually having a very positive approach to any speed increase, be it for selected vehicles or on selected road sections.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304152414	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304152420	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance has nothing to object to changing the ability of the Road Traffic Act to establish locally a higher speed limit than the general speed limit for express roads from 90 to 100 km/h when it is safe. The good arguments are queuing and I shall not repeat them, they have already been mentioned. Nor do I see any difficulty in adjusting the scope for penalties for speed overruns in the same way, so that they equivalise the rules on motorways. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304152456	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304152502	Thank you very much. As I said earlier from the platform here, the alternative is not, as a rule, in favour of increasing speed limits simply in order to increase speed limits. In my view, that is exactly what this proposal represents. We do not consider it necessary to raise the speed limits on the very small part of the motorway which will be able to meet the conditions laid down in the draft law, and we do not believe that the effect on mobility itself will be sufficient to justify the implementation of the legislative proposal. We believe that the possible risks of an increased number of accidents and more serious accidents weigh more heavily. The fact that it is also pointed out that increased speeds will naturally also lead to increased pollution and consumption only further confirms that this bill is the wrong way to go. So the alternative cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304152548	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304152600	Speed limits need to make sense. After all, road safety is not only to drive slowly, but just as much that speed limits are seen as reasonable. One thing is to regulate the speed limits, but the SF also believes that action must be taken against those drivers who, regardless of their borders, drive too quickly and often gambling. We regularly read about drivers who don't care about their own safety and that of others. In SF's view, more speed controls should be used. And then I think we should also look at the fact that a well-stocked person, as the situation is today, can often just pull on the shoulders of a speeding ticket. The SF proposed in the last session that speeding tickets be graduated according to income, and we are considering resubmitting that proposal. In addition, we believe that this should lead more often to the abolition of driving licences when speed limits are exceeded. A car driven ruthlessly could end up being a murder weapon.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304152715	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304152723	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law that I find there. With the bill, the government wants to strengthen the availability of roads by allowing local speed limits to be set at 100 km/h. the places where there is today a limit of 90 km/h. We are here creating the framework for strengthening both industrial development and the tourist industry. Of course, an increase in the speed limit must take place in a road safety manner which is safe and therefore the speed limit will only be raised on those routes where road design and dimensioning make the roads suitable for driving up to 100 km/h. I do not want to go far into a debate here from the platform with those who, like saying that it is more important that we keep the speeds down than that we relate to what the background should be to raise them. I think it is sad, because it will leave some people with the impression that there are some parties who take the view that, regardless of whether a proposal suggests that it is reasonable to do so, it is more crucial that it should not be set up. I just get a little sad about that, because I don't think that's what I normally hear the transport rapporteurs say when we discuss these things. The general speed limit is just so we just have it in place on the expressway is 80 km/h. A speed limit of 90 km/h has already been set for most of the motorway roads, as these roads are properly designed for faster driving. This actually applies to 270 km out of the 310 km of state motorway we have. Then there are several motorway roads that are dimensioned, that is built and suitable for driving up to 100 km/h, and for some of the routes will run at 100 km/h. require that the road direction is adapted. I think it should be remembered that that is the reason for this. It is also for this reason that the Council for Safe Traffic agrees with the bill to allow local authorities to raise the speed limit on motorway routes where road safety is justified, that is to say. on lines complying with the recommendations of the Road Directorate concerning physical separation between the driving directions, the width of the safety zone, the location and design of the intersections and the design of the exits. I think I'd like to say to Mr. Henning Hylllested, that is the wording with which Mr. Henning Hyllested has always appreciated the Council for Safe Traffic until the Council for Safe Traffic spoke in a direction which Mr. Henning Hyllested wasn't too happy, is a little weird. It's a little weird to have that as long as others agree with Mr. Henning Hylllested, that's okay, but when they don't agree with Mr. Hylllested... Henning Hylllested, that's not good enough. I think that we should try to read the consultation answer given by the Council for Safe Transport. That is exactly what we are putting into our proposal, which I find in the reply from the Council for Safe Transport. Therefore, I think it would be nice if it were the case that the Folketing could approve together something that is actually dimensioned to it, is actually built for it and actually applies in the areas that one can go in and say is safety-wise suitable for it. I look forward, of course, to the further discussion in the Folketing and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise in this connection. But I would still hope that here in the Folketing we can find a common ground. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153130	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153133	It is, of course, to the Minister's comment on the Council for Safe Transport in relation to my comments on the same. It is not because the Council for Safe Transport does not agree with me anymore, it is actually because I believe that the Council for Safe Transport is just as quietly changing its focus from paying attention to behaviour, where speed belongs, and to be a little more concerned about too much, I do not think I know whether you can be too concerned about something • developing safe cars and safe roads. It is also important, of course it is, but speed is and remains one of the great killers, and it has always been the message of the Council for Safe Traffic. I don't think they're so clear in their messages anymore. I am also referring to an interview with Sølund, the Chief of Documentation, about New Year's in Politiken, where I think there was also a sub-priority to speed rather than technical solutions in terms of cars and roads. That is what I am, like, trying to challenge the Council for Safe Traffic on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153242	Mr. Henning Hyllested also has his right. But I just think it was possible to draw a different conclusion as well. It might be concluded that the Safe Transport Council says that if it is the case that you, who build the roads, make sure that it is the Ministry of Transport and the Road Directorate to build them in a way that is in order for road safety to be in order, then the Safe Transport Council thinks that it is all right. In this way, we can also promote a better road structure and then, in other words, by rewarding it, we can basically achieve the objective we want, namely that it will be safer to drive on motorways. But there will always be a debate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153328	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153330	It is true that we can take that view, and that is what I regret, i.e. that the Council for Safe Traffic shifts its focus or places emphasis on this sort of thing. We have also seen them put a great deal of emphasis on an argument about the flow of traffic, which we saw in connection with Tempo 100, caravans and such things, where I think I can see that there will be no further flow out of it. But we think it is a stupid development, because then we will not get the full benefit of developing safe roads and safe cars, because if we keep the pace of what it is, with everything we know about how dangerous too high speed is, we will not get the full benefit of developing safe roads and safe cars, and therefore, if I may say so, we will almost compensate for the fact that we are developing highways and safe cars. We are not getting the full benefit, and I find that regrettable, and I do not understand why the Council for Safe Transport has gone on that road at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153424	Of course, I will not explain that. But I'm not sure that Mr. Henning Hyllested has evidence that you can conclude that way. But we can take a question on that, and I'll answer it. I do not know either, but I am not sure that it can be said that it has finally been proved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153441	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153455	The debate is open. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153513	Thank you for that, President. We end on Friday with some of a technical matter, but nevertheless it is a matter of duty, and it is also important that things are completely checked. It is about how to deal with EIA studies, i.e. the environmental studies that have to be present, when in the area we are on here, you build railways, metro, light rails, roads and build bridges and tunnels. Of course, we need to be sure that we are doing an appropriate EIA study, environmental effects. There has been a new directive from the European Union which amends the way the EIA Directive is handled. In the past, projects under the Ministry of Transport and Building, adopted by civil engineering law, have been exempted from the provisions of the Directive on the implementation of an EIA procedure and, with the amendment of the law, the derogation will be abolished. There have been a number of consultation responses and the vast majority are positive, but important questions have also been raised. I look forward to them being dealt with in the Parliament's Transport Committee, but as I have read through here we look forward, of course, to getting input from the environmental experts and as it is here, we can support this change from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153643	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153655	With this proposal, we need to implement another directive from the European Union, and I can almost guarantee that it is probably one that we in the European Committee have at some point said no to. But we know it's gonna land here. And this time it is about EIA studies, i.e. environmental assessments. One can then have an opinion as to whether we are not doing well enough or whether we could do better, but I would say that in our sector, in transport, we spend large sums of money on making these environmental assessments. Some of it is of course relevant, and some of it may be less relevant. This directive does not end with that. But that doesn't mean we're moving some competences from the Danish Nature Agency to Banedanmark and Vejdirektoratet, respectively. And it is of course common sense that where to make the decisions, make EIA statements for these major construction projects, which we here in Denmark as one of the few countries adopt by construction law, there is also where the competence for the EIA procedure lies, that is, with those who have to carry out the work. So we can support that part of it, even if it comes down from the European Union. So, as a starting point, we are positive about the proposal... I can see that Magnus Heunicke is pulling a little bit on the smile tape.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153819	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304153829	Thank you. Society needs high mobility. This requires a modern infrastructure, and it requires an infrastructure with sufficient capacity. That is why we sometimes need to expand our infrastructure and build new roads and railways, etc., and that must be possible. However, when we do this, it must of course be done in a way that takes account of the environment and the pilots who are affected, and we must of course have the consequences properly explained. With this bill, we will integrate environmental and transport policy when we build our infrastructure. This is done by means of a new sectoral regulation in which environmental and transport considerations are no longer regarded as two completely different separate dimensions, but as a whole. The bill envisages that the Danish Agency for Traffic and Construction will take over the tasks which the Danish Nature Agency is currently managing. The amended EIA Directive is to be implemented in Danish law as from 16 May 2017. In this context, the EIA procedure followed by the Vejdirektoratet and Banedanmark in carrying out environmental impact assessments, public consultations etc. must be formalised in Danish law if we want to preserve the possibility of adopting construction projects here in the Folketing by law. And it is incredibly important that we still have that opportunity. We should not have German conditions in which a very important construction project for society can last for years. It is incredibly important that we have the opportunity here in the Folketing to take political holistic responsibility for a project, including the environmental consequences. The Left welcomes the fact that the bill also means that the Road Directorate and Banedanmark must ensure that the requirements of the EIA Directive are respected in the future when road and rail projects are put forward and are to be adopted here by construction law. Then you can ask: is the Danish Transport and Construction Authority equipped for the task? The answer is yes. Firstly, it is ensured that the board will be independent of the Department of Transport and Building with regard to this environmental impact assessment. Secondly, it will be a requirement for the board to ensure that the necessary environmental expertise is available to the board to deal with these cases. So we are very confident about that, and that is why the Left can vote in favour of the bill. And I should like to say from my good colleagues from the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304154114	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304154124	Thank you. I see this watch isn't working. We'll have it adjusted. I'll tell you about the time). One might almost say that this draft law has been preceded by the legislative proposal we are discussing at the same time, namely L 102, on the easy track in Ring 3. Too many of the things that have been written into Bill L 102 go back here. Therefore, many of my comments on Bill L 102 on the light rail in Ring 3 could be repeated here. It is the experience of the metro construction that is very much haunting. I am well aware that it is an EIA directive that now needs to be written in, but it is clear that experience from the metro construction is haunting. The emphasis is on propulsion rather than on the surroundings if it is at least in urban settlements, but in general the community environment during the construction phase in terms of noise, dust, vibrations and whatever else it may be. After all, the right to appeal is cut off, so that only the courts are able to complain. We are convinced that it challenges the demands of the Aarhus Convention that there should be quick, easy and inexpensive access to justice. One might wonder why the Government and the Ministry of Transport consider that it is necessary for Denmark to have the whole of two authorities to handle EIA processes, also because there is the crucial difference between this bill that it is actually aimed at cutting off people, as I mentioned, including associations from redress, so that they are only left to the courts. And the possibility of suspensive effect will be avoided. It is, of course, as I say, the metro case that is very much the case here, but one could also draw a different conclusion from the whole mess around the metro building. One could, of course, engage in close dialogue with the residents. People could be drawn into the planning when they start creating jobs. You could give residents easy access to complaints and contact on construction sites when projects are under way. It was one of those things. Some of the things that went wrong with the subway construction. One could move out quickly when the residents turn and deal with the problem that may arise with noise or whatever it might be. And then, of course, you could organize the work, so you avoided as much evening, night and weekend work as was possible at all. That's all the Metro Company didn't do. On the contrary, they brought themselves forth as kings without listening or taking people seriously. We think that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has a very thorough consultation answer in which they draw attention to some of the things I have also mentioned, for example. the restricted right of appeal, where they are, of course, very much problematical as to whether there will be an affordable opportunity to complain when this is to take place in the courts. They also believe that the Nature and Environment Complaints Board will easily be able to be included in the draft law as a complaint body, so that the easy and quick access to complaints can be obtained. But that is certainly not the intention of the bill, should I just say hello. You also propose, in fact, that a minimum consultation period be included in the draft law, which must be laid down in the law, and not be dependent on the haste and willingness of the current government at all times in some matter, especially in this area, where there are usually very large and intrusive projects. So the Enhedslisten will be tabling amendments on that. We, together with the Alternative, have asked some questions to L 102, i.e. the light track in Ring 3, which is also relevant to this bill L 134. We do not think that the answers we have received are all equally good. I've got one of them. in writing. - (FR) The question asked about the very thing that is more affordable in judicial proceedings, and there we have just received back an answer which outlines the grounds of a particular judgment by the European Union, which England has led against the Commission. However, we look forward to the hearing on which we have agreed. There is one minute left). Well, there's one minute, I've got plenty of time! I was just finishing up. I am almost done, so thank you for the information, President. As I said, we look forward to having a hearing with the experts in this area. We already had it in connection with L 103. We were summoned, but it was a hurry. Now we are hoping that we can have a really thorough expert hearing, in which we will clarify all aspects of this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304154617	Thank you. It is simply because the clock has broken. But time was well observed, so thank you for that. Here you go to the next rapporteur, sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304154626	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance welcomes the fact that the EIA procedure can be dealt with in the relevant sectoral legislation in this area. Everything else must be a more simple matter, since environmental impact assessments obviously have a close connection with the regulation of infrastructure projects in general. I am thinking here of building lines, feasibility studies, expropriation, etc. We have absolutely no reason to assume that the Ministry does not have the professional competences of something that the Nature Conservation Association cares about. Perhaps they also have a more pragmatic approach to these issues, so that we will not cost a bridge over a motorway to accommodate a single hazelnut or two. Unfortunately, we have examples of this. I think it was something like 5 million. kr., it cost down at Svendborg to have a bridge made, but then the mouse didn't even go over when it came to the play. By the way, I know that the Road Directorate has a great many biologists and environmentalists, so I suppose that is not the case. So, yes, we are comfortable with the proposal and we are happy to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304154736	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. No, it's first, sir. Nikolai Amstrup. We're getting tired here Friday afternoon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304154749	Thank you, thank you. The intention of the draft law is described as an implementation of the EIA Directive in the Road Law, Railway Law and Port Law for State Road and Rail Projects and Port Projects. The EIA Directive is a truly important structure for imposing requirements on builders on environmental impact assessments, environmental impact reports and the use of competent experts. In our view, therefore, this is an absolutely positive directive which, after the 2014 amendment, must also be extended to projects adopted by civil engineering law. In the alternative, however, when we are sceptical about this bill, it is because we believe that the criticisms of the draft law overshadow the positive intention of the draft law. We are not at all happy with the violations of administrative redress, which unfortunately are also contained in the proposal. I am, of course, aware that in the consultation note the Ministry does not consider that there are legal certainty concerns about the direct recourse to the courts. We do not share that view so far, and that is why we need a further study in the form of an expert meeting, as also mentioned by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Henning Hyllested, in order to uncover citizens' legal certainty by adopting this bill. We are also concerned that the legal status of citizens and the safety of proper natural and environmental protection, which should otherwise be guaranteed by the Aarhus Convention, are being undermined by this legislative proposal. More directly, we lack a reference in the legislative notes to the fact that the court can apply the rules of suspensory effect in dealing with complaints which are restricted by the normal right of appeal to the Nature and Environment Appeals Board. This, too, needs to be further identified at the expert meeting mentioned above. In addition, the Danish Nature Conservation Association mentions in its consultation answer that it has also been mentioned by other rapporteurs that there may be a problem in placing the EIA authority on the whole area under the Danish Traffic and Construction Authority. We see a point in it and do not believe that the Danish Building Agency's experience with harbour areas and harbour sea areas is a strong enough argument for bringing together the EIA authority in the area under that hat. The alternative, as I have outlined, is fundamentally sceptical about the fact that the implementation of the EIA directive, which is implemented by the legislative proposal here, does not run smoothly with the directive and thereby reduces the legal certainty of citizens. So we cannot support the proposal, but we look forward to learning more about the issues involved in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304155023	Thank you, sir. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304155037	Large-scale projects often intervene dramatically in nature and into the lives of citizens. SF believes that the environment must be taken into account as far as possible and that construction projects must be carried out with due regard for legal certainty. It must be easy and cheap for citizens to complain about state decisions, and therefore SF is critical of the elements at odds with the Aarhus Convention. The metro construction in Copenhagen was at one point a really ugly full scale project in power. Fortunately, that was corrected, but far too late. The SF opposes the limitation of the right of appeal. The affordable, as it says, we will look critically at, just as we believe that organisations should have the right to complain. On the other hand, we will look at whether the suspensive effect can be channeled in a fair way. We look forward to the expert hearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304155154	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Then it's the Minister of Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304155202	Thank you for your many comments. High mobility and good infrastructure are, after all, a cornerstone of a modern society. It is intended to ensure accessibility, create growth and jobs and, above all, make the Danes' daily lives more coherent. New installations and improvements to road and rail infrastructure are an essential element in this context. Therefore, when the Road Directorate and Banedanmark build, operate and maintain Danish transport infrastructure, it is of great value to citizens and companies in this country. Of course, new installations and improvements to road and rail infrastructure also have an impact on the environment, and environmental impact assessments therefore play a prominent role when the Road Directorate and Banedanmark are to establish transport infrastructure, and this must continue to do so when the amended EIA Directive is to be implemented in Danish law as from 16 May 2017. The amending directive means, among other things, that the previous derogation for projects adopted by national laws, i.e.: Our Danish construction laws have been repealed, and this means that in future we will have to implement an EIA procedure for construction law projects. This does not entail any real change in relation to the previous legal situation, since the transport projects we have adopted so far by construction law have always met the requirements of the directive, but it simply means that the EIA procedure followed by the Road Directorate and Banedanmark in carrying out environmental impact assessments, consultation of the public, etc., must be formalised in Danish law if we want to preserve the possibility of adopting construction projects in the Folketing by law. For the government, it is essential that the large and socially important construction projects in the state road and rail areas can continue to be adopted by a democratic process of the Folketing. It is a strength to ensure a solid political debate and position on those projects which often have significant social consequences, including for citizens and businesses, for growth and the economy and, of course, also for the environment. The Government thus intends to implement the amended EIA Directive into Danish law in such a way that this tradition of the Danish Parliament's approval of major construction projects in the territory of the Ministry of Transport and Building can be preserved. So it's a preservation we're talking about. At the same time, implementation offers us an obvious opportunity to rethink the sectoral regulation of the Ministry of Transport and Building in the road and rail sectors and to ensure that environmental policy is much more integrated into transport policy, which is a wish I personally had for a long time. Indeed, I do not think it is optimal for either the environment or the transport infrastructure for our construction projects to be carried out in two isolated pillars, one of which relates to the optimisation of transport infrastructure, and the other to the environmental consequences of this. We must recognise that a sensible and sustainable transport policy cannot be operated without environmental policy being an integral element, and the two important policy areas of environmental policy and transport policy must be seen in a context. This will provide the best possible basis for reducing the negative effects of projects for the benefit of both citizens and the environment. We therefore propose that environmental policy be made part of the sectoral regulation of the Ministry of Transport and Building, thereby strengthening the environmental knowledge of the Ministry of Transport and Building for the benefit of the environment and citizens in connection with the implementation of transport infrastructure projects. The implementation of the EIA Directive in the Ministry of Transport and Building's own sectoral legislation shall apply both to the projects adopted by the Construction Act of the Danish Parliament and to those projects which must have an administrative EIA permit by a competent EIA authority. In relation to construction legislation projects, Vejdirektoratet and Banedanmark already have extensive experience and expertise in the field of the environment, and this experience and expertise have been developed in connection with the construction and operation of roads and railways. In addition, the Road Directorate and Banedanmark have acquired valuable experience in conducting an EIA procedure towards the adoption of the Construction Act by the Danish Parliament, including the involvement of the public during the EIA procedure. It has been a great gain in these projects that the Road Directorate and Banedanmark have had the capacity not only to look at the projects in a transport policy context but also to assess the impact of the projects on the environment, and we must maintain and continue to draw on this capacity. We therefore propose that it should continue to be the Road Directorate and Banedanmark that ensure that the requirements of the EIA Directive are complied with when we have to adopt road and rail projects under construction law. As a result, the construction laws will continue to constitute the total authorisation, including an EIA permit, to the Minister for Transport and Building to initiate and implement road and rail projects, and these projects, like today, still do not need an administrative EIA permit. With regard to the issue of administrative EIA permits, we also propose that the capacity of the Road Directorate and Banedanmark in the environmental field be exercised and become a gain for all the road and rail projects of the Ministry of Transport and Building. This means that those projects which are not adopted by civil engineering law but which are now granted administrative permission from the Danish Nature Agency must also be covered by the sectoral legislation of the Ministry of Transport and Building. However, it is clear that the Vejdirektoratet and Banedanmark do not have to approve the projects for which they themselves are the construction authority. It is therefore proposed that in future it will be the Danish Transport and Construction Authority which will be the authorising authority when the Road Directorate and Banedanmark seek administrative EIA permission for state road and rail projects. This means that as of 16 May 2017, the Danish Transport and Construction Agency will take over the tasks which are currently being carried out by the Danish Nature Agency, and thus the Ministry of Transport and Building's own boards will in future have to think about environmental policy in the transport policy of all the Ministry's projects, i.e. both the projects adopted by construction law and the projects granted administrative EIA permits. I look forward to seeing transport and environmental policy in this way. In connection with the role of the Danish Transport and Construction Authority as EIA authority in the administrative field, it is important for me to stress that the Danish Agency already has experience in evaluating environmental impact projects according to applicable EIA rules. The Danish Transport and Construction Authority is the EIA authority in relation to port projects. And with the bill it is then intended that the Danish Transport and Construction Authority should draw on this experience and extend it to include environmental impact assessments of state roads and railways. It is therefore the intention that the Danish Transport and Construction Authority should develop the same solid knowledge about environmental impact assessments of road and rail projects already held by the Danish Road Directorate and Banedanmark on these projects. In this context, it is expected that the Danish Transport and Construction Authority will benefit from the fact that when assessing the environment alone, the Authority will have to deal with a limited number of project types, unlike other environmental authorities, which will have to approve a wide range of project types. At the same time, the bill ensures that the Danish Transport and Construction Authority is fully able to carry out this task. This is ensured, firstly, by the fact that the Danish Transport and Construction Authority is made independent of the Department of Transport and Building when the Danish Agency is to carry out environmental tasks in relation to state road and rail projects. The independent role of the administration in these matters is not new. Already today, the Danish Transport and Construction Authority is independent of the Department as a safety authority in the railway sector. Secondly, it requires the Danish Transport and Construction Authority to ensure that it has or may, as necessary, have access to sufficient expertise to examine the environmental impact reports. Thus, the projects are subject to an objective environmental assessment that has the same environmental professional standard as the Danish Nature Agency's assessment today. The draft law also ensures that, in accordance with the EIA Directive, affected authorities and the public are involved and given the opportunity to express their views before the Danish Road and Construction Authority decides on the extent to which a State road or rail project is to be authorised. For example, authorities concerned may: be the Danish Nature Agency, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency and the municipalities where the project is to be implemented. And these authorities, like the public, will also have the opportunity to comment on the information provided as part of the environmental impact assessment. The environmental impact assessment will therefore have the same standard as in the past, including the improvements made by the amended EIA Directive. Let me give an example of this: although the EIA directive only requires 30 days for consultation on environmental impact reports, the government wants to ensure sufficient time for citizen involvement. We have therefore chosen to maintain that environmental impact reports, like today, must be in public consultation for at least 8 weeks. In other words, the government's intention for this implementation of the EIA Directive in the area of the Ministry of Transport and Building is that there will be no compromise with the professional assessments and studies to be carried out in connection with the construction and operation of State road and rail projects, and also after 16 May 2017 the construction projects of the Ministry of Transport and Building will be carried out with the involvement of the authorities concerned and the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304160137	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Henning Hyllested, a short remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304160141	This is precisely one of the last of the very interesting speeches made by the Minister, namely the whole question of the environmental authority, which will then be transferred to the Transport Authority. It is, of course, the whole question of the conflict of interest that can arise when, in the Ministry of Transport, where the Danish Road Traffic Authority is, after all, both plant authority, but is also about to be an environmental authority. We saw it in full bloom at exactly the metro construction, where the Ministry of Transport, together with the municipalities of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg, was a party to the case, but at the same time, when we changed the construction act I think it was, I don't remember it going in and became, what to say, environmental authority. After all, some conflicts of interest can arise very, very easily in that game. I note, of course, the Minister's words that the Danish Road Traffic Authority must be completely independent of the department and must also be able to draw on expertise, but I am always a little sceptical about how to ensure it in practice when the Danish Road Traffic Authority is
ParlaMint-DK_20160304160254	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304160255	Well, that's what you do through the rules that exist. Because it is the case that the administration is independent of the department; it is, for example, the department. in the railway sector. There are now other examples, but it is. So, of course, you have to believe that public authorities are fulfilling their duty to be independent, and I believe they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304160319	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304160321	The reason why I am also a little sceptical is, of course, that I think we can see that the government is downsetting environmental issues in favour of the professions, if I may say so; in this case perhaps in relation to the interest of a construction project and in ensuring the momentum of a construction project. It is just our assessment that environmental issues do not play such a major role for the government, and that is why we can fear a downgrade if it comes to such conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304160357	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304160359	But it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304160402	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160304160415	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 15 March 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
