ParlaMint-DK_20160518130027	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518130033	First of all, Mr President, there is a explanatory statement from the rapporteur on the questioners. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518130104	Thank you, Madam President. We in the Danish People's Party have chosen to call for this urgent request for visa waiver for Turkish citizens in order to clarify the consequences of the agreement reached by the EU and Turkey that Turkey should be offered visa waiver for its citizens per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are already seeing the consequences of this. Although Turkey still needs to meet seven requirements in order to obtain visa waivers, the European Commission, in its progress report of May, nevertheless recommends that this be condoned, giving Turkey the visa waiver per year. July 1st. Otherwise, these are not completely indifferent requirements that have yet to be met. Turkey, for example, is missing. to conclude an operational cooperation agreement with Europol, to offer legal cooperation in criminal matters to all EU Member States, to adapt Turkish terrorist legislation and case law to the applicable EU standards, for example, to enable them to: cannot be used to pursue dissidents and many others. In addition, in the progress report, the European Commission has declared a number of requirements to be met, although they are actually not. For example: After all, the Commission believes that Turkey has taken a satisfactory stand against the fight against corruption by public authorities dealing with visa applications and that there is now a systematic reporting of stolen passports to Interpol, although this can therefore be seriously questioned. I note that the government of the European Committee of the Regions has announced that the government cannot, on this basis, support a visa waiver for Turkish citizens until all the requirements have been met. But it is before all these requirements are met, and it can obviously be quick to judge by what has happened over the last month and a half. At least we in the Danish People's Party think that it is very important to clarify what the consequences of the visa waiver for Turkish citizens will be for Denmark and the Danes, and we look forward to that in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518130258	Thank you. Then it is the minister for reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518130310	Thank you. I have been looking forward to the question debate today. I do, because it gives me the opportunity to explain the challenges that Europe and, above all, Denmark continue to face in the form of the refugee and migration crisis that we are in. But let me first give a status on the current flow of refugees and migration to Europe, because the influx has fallen over the last few weeks, and that is, of course, very positive. The influx from Turkey to Greece has fallen from about 50,000 people a week when the influx was at its peak, to around 400 people a week at the beginning of May, that is, from 5 to 11 May. The fall is due, among other things, to: the closure of the border between Macedonia and Greece, and the fall will also be due to the EU-Turkey Declaration of 18 March, which we are discussing here today. Although the number of people travelling from Turkey to Greece has fallen, the pressure on the external borders has continued to be very great, and we can do so, among other things. Look at the coast of Sicily these days. And I am not so naive that I believe that a political agreement can be reached with Turkey one day and then expect the situation of refugees and migration to be completely under control the next day...
ParlaMint-DK_20160518130449	I'd like to ask the audience to sit down. You are very, very welcome, but we are simply afraid that you are pulling down on the floor, and it will not be so good. You guys can stay in your seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518130459	We should not be under any illusions. There are no snapshot solutions to the refugee and migration crisis, but the current entry rate in Europe, which is low, shows that it is important to control the external borders of the European Union. As you know, this is something that we on the part of the government have stressed over and over again. Let me turn now to the issue of visa freedom for Turkish citizens. As you know, visa freedom is one of the elements of the EU-Turkey Declaration of 18 March. However, the issue of visa freedom for Turkish citizens is not a new discussion. This issue has been discussed since 2013. In December 2013, the action plan that Turkey must comply with in order to obtain visa freedom was presented by the European Union. The action plan contains, as I believe many people know, 72 requirements that Turkey must meet in order to obtain visa freedom. In the context of the meeting of Heads of State or Government of the European Union and Turkey on 18 March, it was agreed to seek to speed up work on the 2013 action plan so that the visa requirement for Turkish nationals can be lifted by the end of June 2016. Visa freedom for Turkish citizens may sound like a high price to pay for Turkey's cooperation in combating illegal immigration into the European Union, but it is important to understand that this is a long-term process which began in 2013 and that the EU-Turkey Declaration only allows Turkey to meet the 72 requirements and thus obtain visa freedom. This would then be a visa waiver, which would be granted four months earlier than originally provided for in the action plan of 2013. The EU-Turkey Declaration has not relaxed the requirements that Turkey must meet before granting visa freedom to Turkish citizens. It is therefore simply a matter of speeding up a process which is already under way, of course, against Turkey fulfilling all the requirements of the action plan. It is not unusual for the EU to conclude visa-free agreements with countries outside the EU. In this context, there is a so-called suspension mechanism in the EU's visa rules that will allow such a visa waiver agreement to be suspended if necessary. It can, for example, be done. If it turns out that visa freedom for a particular country leads to a very large increase in the number of asylum seekers from that particular country. As far as Turkey is concerned, in parallel with the proposal on visa freedom for Turkey, proposals have been made by the European Commission to make the suspension mechanism in the EU's visa rules even more effective. Visa freedom for Turkey is an essential element of overall engagement with Turkey, but the government has always taken the view that a proposal on visa freedom for Turkish citizens cannot be supported until the conditions laid down in the Visa Action Plan are met. We have continued to do so. The Government will work to strengthen the suspension mechanism so that any visa waiver for Turkish nationals can be suspended more quickly and to a greater extent if abuses occur. The issue of visa freedom for Turkey must, by its very nature, be seen in the context of the rest of the EU-Turkey Declaration of 18 March. This is particularly true of the EU's ability to return all irregular migrants who may have arrived in Greece and then, of course, return them to Turkey, and it is true of Turkey's obligation to take all necessary steps to prevent new illegal routes from coming from Turkey to the European Union. As part of the EU-Turkey Declaration, all irregular migrants arriving in the Greek islands from Turkey from 20 March this year must return to Turkey. The European Union will then re-inhabit, for each Syrian citizen who is sent back to Turkey, a Syrian refugee resident in Turkey. It is, of course, essential that the return to Turkey be carried out in full compliance with EU law and international law. The EU-Turkey Declaration is an essential element in the search for solutions to the refugee and migrant crisis in which the European Union finds itself and, as I said, we have already seen the first positive results of the EU-Turkey Declaration. This gives rise to hope, but we must also be realistic: there is a risk that the agreement will prove difficult to implement in the long term. A precondition for ensuring continued Turkish willingness to cooperate in the fight against illegal immigration in the European Union is that progress is made in implementing all elements of the declaration. This also applies to speeding up the negotiations on visa freedom for Turkey. However, Turkey must, of course, live up to its part of the agreement, and visa freedom for Turkish citizens cannot be called into question until the conditions laid down in the visa action plan have been met.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518131103	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and that is first the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518131112	Thank you to the Minister for answering the question. There was not, one can say, so much focus on what consequences a possible visa waiver will have for Denmark. But that's the way it is. I assume, however, that the Minister is not so naive that the Minister imagines that, in the event that Turkey does not obtain this visa waiver from 1 July, it will continue to accept illegal immigrants who end up on the Greek islands. This must be taken as a starting point when we have seen the statements made by the Turkish President. And what exactly is this deal worth? Yeah, you gotta ask yourself that. I am quite sure that many Danes do. By the way, the former head of MI6, Sir Richard Dearlove from Britain, who has called the agreement "and now I quote perverse." He compares it with the fact that the quote was to store gasoline by open fire. That, after all, is a powerful statement by a head of MI6. And the consequences of this? Well, we know that, we know them well, although they were quite sparsely elucidated by the Minister. There are at least four major problems in granting Turkey a visa waiver in Europe: firstly, when visa freedom is introduced, there is no really any longer any in-depth control of the person who intends to enter Denmark. He's only met at the border. This means that if you are a terrorist and there are some of them in Turkey, judging by the number of bomb blasts we have witnessed recently, you can now, if you are equipped with Turkish passports, easily enter Denmark. In addition, there is widespread corruption in Turkey and also sympathy for radical Islam, which means that it is not entirely inconceivable that some in the Turkish public authorities will help to issue passports on the wrong basis to such a person. Secondly, we also have the problem that the Danish asylum authorities do not recognise that Turkey is a safe country. In other words, we cannot return any asylum seekers who come to Denmark from Turkey to Turkey once they have landed here in Denmark. With the current developments in Turkey with ever-increasing disputes between Kurds and Turks, it is to be expected that visa liberalisation will mean that more Turkish citizens will travel freely into Denmark with the aim of seeking asylum in this country. Thirdly, there are the rules on family reunification, where it is shown that if you have the greatest overall relationship with Denmark, then you can obtain the right to family reunification in Denmark. But such an attachment can be built up. This means that if you can travel visa-free into Denmark and stay here for up to 90 days at a time, you can actually quickly build a link with Denmark. Fourthly, it will be considerably easier to enter Denmark for Turks and remain illegal in this country. In 2007 there were 318 charges for illegal residence, and that figure had then risen to 981 in 2013. And what kind of nationality was it that was at the top of the list when it came to illegal residence? Those were people from Turkey. And it is quite evident that the number of Turks who are illegally staying in Denmark will increase when we no longer have any opportunity to control who is coming here, because they can just enter Denmark and then ignore the 90-day rule. Now we all know that such a temporary suspension of the visa rules, as the Minister said could be the solution to this, is not something you do for fun. Something quite serious needs to be done. I think it has to be said that, if it is the case that, at some point, after granting it visa freedom to Turkey, we suspend it again, then the same thing will happen as if Turkey does not get the visa waiver. Then Erdogan will make sure to keep his promise to drive refugees and asylum seekers on buses to Europe's borders. That's the way he operates. Against this background, we will make the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Parliament notes that the agreement between the EU and Turkey is a historic mistake. The Folketing completely rejects the point of visa-free entry for Turkish citizens and the point of continuing accession negotiations with Turkey because it and its values do not belong in Europe at all. • V 64).
ParlaMint-DK_20160518131531	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposed adoption is now part of the further discussion. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518131551	Thank you for the floor, President. Back in March this year, EU leaders and Turkey agreed on an agreement to curb the flow of migrants from Turkey to the Greek islands. The agreement is based on the action plan that we concluded with the Turks as early as November last year. The nine points of the agreement contain a number of mutual commitments between the EU and Turkey. The European Union undertakes to contribute financially to Turkey's ability to pay for the many costs it has incurred as a result of the refugee crisis, which it believes has resulted in up to 3 million Syrian and Iraqi refugees staying in that country. On the other hand, Turkey undertakes to take back all new irregular migrants sailing to the Greek islands. Migrants and refugees who do not want to seek asylum in Greece can therefore be returned from Greece to Turkey. In addition, Turkey undertakes to take all necessary steps to prevent new illegal sea or land routes from Turkey to the European Union. Turkey's obligations to take back irregular migrants now arriving in the Greek islands and to prevent new illegal routes entered into force on 20 March. Last week, the EU's border agency, Frontex, was able to announce that since the agreement entered into force, there has been a fall of 90%. in the number of arrivals in the Greek islands. It may have many different explanations, but let me make it clear that the fall in the influx is not a sign that the refugee crisis is over. Nor does it indicate that it is going away, but yet it shows that the agreement with Turkey works so far at least. And we cannot underestimate the importance of that. Firstly, Greece was and is breaking down under the massive pressure it has been under because of the number of refugees who have arrived. Secondly, there was, and is, a huge danger that the EU's external borders might collapse with the consequence that Schengen will then also collapse. Both will have enormous and disastrous consequences for the EU and its economies within the EU. For these reasons, the Social Democrats have supported the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. Because we agree with the government and the other European countries that illegal migration must be stopped and that the business model of traffickers must be destroyed. In order to succeed, we must recognise that we also need Turkey's help. We see the agreement as a first important step towards better control of the EU's external borders and as an important step towards avoiding the human tragedies that have been witnessed in the context of the flood of refugees across the Aegean. Having said that, the agreement is far from perfect. Of course, we must be aware of the concrete implementation, so that there is action behind the words, just as we must keep in mind that Turkey is fulfilling its responsibility to ensure proper conditions for all those in need of international protection. Our support for the agreement and the financing of the refugee facility is under no circumstances a sign of the highly critical and boring development Turkey is experiencing in the area of human rights. There must and must be pressure on Erdogan and Turkey to respect the basic respect for human rights and minorities. This brings me to today's main theme, because as part of the agreement with the European Union, the Turks must have the right to visa-free entry into the European Union if 72 requirements are met. Turkey still needs to meet seven requirements, including requirements for the implementation of amendments to its anti-terrorist laws, in order to bring them more into line with EU standards. In the Social Democratic Party we listen very carefully to the human rights organisations that accuse Turkey of using its anti-terrorist laws to cover criticism and imprison, among others. journalists and academics who speak critically about the government. Therefore, it will also be an absolute requirement from us that all 72 points must be met before there can be any real visa freedom at all. As Turkey looks today, we in the Social Democratic Party remain sceptical about both visa liberalisation and potential EU membership, both of which are still considered to have very long prospects. Against this background (on behalf of S, V, KF and LA) I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that any visa waiver is an essential element of the overall arrangement with Turkey. Parliament calls for the government not to support visa freedom for Turkey until the conditions set out in the Visa Action Plan are met. The government must work to strengthen the suspension mechanism so that any visa waiver can be suspended more quickly and to a greater extent. • V 65). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132013	Thank you. This proposal is also part of the further discussion. And there are a few brief comments. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132017	With regard to the arrangement, I would say that it is actually a very good word, because it shows what kind of strange thing we are dealing with. I will start with a service to the rapporteur, which is relevant if the rapporteur is not aware of it: Schengen has collapsed in this way. Border controls have been introduced throughout Europe. I think the rapporteur has an incredibly naive approach to what it means to conclude an agreement with a real dictatorship which Turkey has gradually become. But what I am quite sure is that the rapporteur says that the agreement is working. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether he thinks that this is an expression of the fact that the agreement works when Europe has re-inhabited ten times as many Syrians since March as Turkey has taken back from Greece.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132107	Finally, I would like to say that this is part of the agreement that has been reached. And it can be said that it works, in the sense that the number of new entrants to the Greek islands has fallen by 90%. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, it can in fact have several different explanations, but one cannot close one's eyes at all to the fact that part of the agreement we have reached with Turkey has a direct effect on it. Compared to the other, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth asks, I would say, that it can be described as naive, but as we have also discussed many times in this Chamber, it is the case that Denmark and the European Union very often enter into direct negotiations and agreements with both dictatorships and other states whose actions we do not approve of. It is part of trying to navigate on the global stage, and that is part of having to try to navigate in a refugee crisis that spans many different countries. And we cannot close our eyes to the fact that many of the countries in the neighbourhood to which the refugees are fleeing are also countries where, among other things, there. As in Turkey, it is a sad development in terms of human rights and so on. The rapporteur may call that naive, but that is just the reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132214	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132215	I understand that the rapporteur thinks it is quite fair and fair to accept ten times as many Syrians in Europe as we return to Turkey. And if we are to continue in this way, I think there are a lot of people who think that this is a rather bad agreement that has been reached. But let it go. I think I hear the same from the rapporteur as I have actually heard from others, and that is that Turkey has the famous key. I would just like to ask the rapporteur quite quietly: when is the rapporteur's party going to do the same thing as the rapporteur's party colleague, Mr Poettering? Henrik Sass Larsen has called for asylum seekers to be sent to camps in the neighbourhood or in third world countries? I think it would be reasonable to do so there at least we have an opportunity to really slow down the influx of refugees. When will it come, as Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen has indicated that the Social Democratic Party is in favour of doing so? And is the Social Democrat at all in favour of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132306	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132307	Without necessarily having to interpret what my party colleagues have said, I would like to say that what I know was an interview about what we are doing in the long run if we have a migration that simply does not stop. And I think the rapporteur is well aware that it is not an opportunity today to send the refugees who come to Europe back to third countries, or, for that matter, to close completely off. At any rate, we do not have the possibility of doing so right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132334	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132337	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I am a little interested in what the statement that we are calling for the points that the European Union has made as a condition for this agreement on visa waiver actually means. These are 72 points, of which paragraph 68 is the question of respect for the European Court of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights. It is true that Turkey is currently judging some people completely in breach of that convention. Recently, the two journalists Erdem Gül and Can Dündar were sentenced to long prison sentences. So when you say that Turkey must comply with those rules, I suppose it is also true that those who have just been convicted under unjust and unacceptable rules will also be released. Does the Socialist rapporteur not share that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132441	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132442	First of all, I would like to say that I do not know the specific cases, so I cannot stand here from the speaking chair of the Folketing and agree whether or not anyone should be released from prison. However, I agree with the rapporteur that when it is that we say that Turkey has to live up to 72 points in order for there to be any visa freedom, then they have to live up to 72 points. That is also what I said in my rapporteur's speech, and that is, in fact, an indispensable demand on our part. Secondly, I have also said on several occasions in this Chamber that I agree with the rapporteur that the developments that are taking place in Turkey right now are both problematic and deeply worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132518	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132520	The rapporteur must be completely forgiven for not knowing the specific legal cases that have been carried out here lately, but we can of course take it more generally. If those cases are not in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, but are part of the unfair practice that is being called for, then surely it also means that the precondition for being able to say that the agreement has been fulfilled is that the people who have been sentenced to punishment following unfair practices should also be released. I assume that the rapporteur agrees with that, otherwise it is just an invitation to Erdogan to judge as much as possible over the next few months and put them in prison for the conclusion of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132610	We are certainly not interested in urging Erdogan to judge loose until, if necessary, he should have fulfilled those points. But yes, I can confirm that, of course, this means that when paragraph 68 requires that we meet the conditions of the European Convention on Human Rights and comply with the principles there, it is necessary that we live up to them. I do not know the specific cases well enough to be able to give an opinion on whether or not the two persons concerned should be released, but yes, we must live up to what is in paragraph 68 of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132642	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Dansk Folkepartie, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132646	In any case, it seems to me that Erdogan is currently dragging the EU and EU countries around the nose by simply running his own agenda. I also think it seems that in many ways the European Heads of State and the European Union are at their knees to this problem. I just find it odd that when you know what's going on in Turkey, you still play this game. What if the Commission comes and says: now we are dispensing from the points we have otherwise demanded? What will be done on the part of the Social Democratic Party? What are you gonna say?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132726	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132727	First of all, I would just like to say that what is the main dilemma here: I also have earlier in other debates called for answers from the Danish People's Party, as to whether there are other real alternatives to trying to reach an agreement with Turkey that they are helping to secure our external borders, and for that matter also to help finance it. So, the Danish People's Party is also a party that is constantly talking about helping in the neighbourhood, and we are actually doing so as part of this agreement. There are 3 million refugees in Turkey. If not all those people also have to take their feet on their necks and start walking northwards, then it is part of the prerequisite that we also try to do what we can to finance their stay down there and really help in the vicinity. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, our starting point is that there can be no visa freedom until all 72 points have been met.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132821	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132822	The agreement with Turkey rests on the hidden premise that we want Erdogan to do the dirty work because we do not want to do it ourselves; because we do not want to protect our external borders ourselves, we want Turkey to do it. And it goes as far as Erdogan wants, not one step further. Well, I just think there's a lack of political sense of reality in this. I would much rather we used our powers to protect our own borders. This is a well-known matter, and we do not need to take that discussion here or at least start securing Schengen's external borders instead of trusting a tyrant like Erdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132907	Right now, the European Union is doing virtually everything in its power to protect its external borders. And a significant part of the prerequisite for the agreement with Erdogan rests on what is real. The reality is that a great many refugees have moved on from Turkey to the various Greek islands. Some of them are losing their lives along the way, a great many of them are living in Greece, and Greece is breaking down under that pressure. That is the reality we are in, and it is in this reality that an agreement has been reached with Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132940	Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Dansk Folkeparti, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518132943	Thank you very much. The rapporteur spends some time talking about human rights, and we are all very concerned about that somewhere. But then I think of Cyprus, which is actually occupied. Does the rapporteur think that it is okay to negotiate such agreements when we have a power that has occupied another country where you can then think a little about their human rights there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133011	As I also answered the honourable Member's questioner's question, it is the case that we often conclude agreements and often negotiate with countries whose development we do not approve of. We often make agreements and often negotiate with leaders whose ideology, whose politics we do not like. That is part of concluding agreements in foreign policy. I do not believe that foreign policy can be pursued, and I do not believe that we can solve this difficult, difficult refugee crisis if we decide in advance that we will not enter into agreements with countries whose development we do not approve of. That would certainly mean that we would also have difficulty in concluding agreements with Lebanon. We would also find it difficult to reach agreements with Jordan. In any case, we would find it difficult to reach agreements and negotiate with some of the countries in the vicinity of where the wars are currently taking place and which are the main source of the flows of refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133107	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133112	The rapporteur also stresses that Turkey must, of course, meet the requirements set for Turkey in order to achieve this visa liberalisation. But would the rapporteur not confirm that it is actually the case that it can be adopted by a qualified majority, that is to say. Around Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133129	Indeed, I can confirm that, but I can only express my opinion on behalf of the position of the Social Democratic Party in the Danish Parliament and on behalf of the mandate we can or will or can consider giving the government, and there is our main view that we will not support granting visa freedom to Turkish citizens if the 72 points are not met.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133152	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133156	Thank you. I am pleased that the rapporteur makes it so clear that the 72 points must be met in order for the Socialists to support this visa freedom. I would like to ask the rapporteur what security considerations the Socialists are making about a possible visa waiver between Turkey and Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133219	I might almost want to ask again. Security considerations in the sense that terrorists could come in? In other words, we are thinking that we believe that, although Turkey is in a tedious state of development and, in particular, Erdogan's regime is in a really, really boring state of affairs, there has been, as the Minister said before, a road map for visa freedom back several years ago. This is what the agreement here has decided to speed up, if possible, and we support it, provided that the 72 points are met.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133300	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133302	There are many thousands of Turkish citizens in Turkey who have a link with ISIL in one way or another, and I think that is worth considering when considering visa freedom between Denmark and Turkey, and that is what I am asking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133320	It is certainly worth considering, and that is one of the reasons why we are not absolutely enthusiastic either, and that is also why we do not wish to depart from the requirement that Turkey should meet the 72 points, among others. they must standardise their legislation with that of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133340	Thank you. There will then be no further comments and we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Marcus Knuth, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133349	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this question debate so that we can discuss the importance of the agreement reached between the European Union and Turkey on 18 March this year. The protection of the EU's external borders is of crucial importance to the Left. Over the last few months, we have seen how Europe has gone wrong. The flow of refugees has wandered across Europe, which, because of its scale, was at first almost impossible to control. The agreement between the European Union and Turkey is a very important part of stopping that wave, an agreement that can send migrants back to Turkey, an agreement that has already contributed to a reduction of up to 90% at this stage. in the migratory flow of the sea from Turkey to Greece. In the agreement with Turkey, the EU also decided to speed up the process which has already been under way since 2013 and which will, in the long term, allow Turkey to grant visa freedom to Turkish citizens. The Agreement provides that the visa requirement may already be lifted by the end of June 2016. On the other hand, as I said, the European Union will receive, among other things. the possibility of sending irregular immigrants who have come to Greece back to Turkey. It is a hugely effective and landmark tool to help the European Union protect its external borders so that we can regain control of the influx that has brought Europe's welfare societies to their knees. I am well aware that the word 'freedom of visas' for Turkish citizens in particular can act as a deterrent to some in this Chamber, but it is important to point out that new agreements depend on Turkey fulfilling the 72 requirements that the European Union has laid down as a condition for visa freedom. If they are not met and respected, then the EU has the opportunity to suspend the agreement. For the Left, it is absolutely essential that the European Union regains control of its external borders. Only in this way can we manage the large influx of refugees that the European Union and also Denmark have been struggling with in recent times. The agreement between the European Union and Turkey seems to be moving in the right direction, which is why the Left is also so far satisfied with the trend we have seen that the agreement has led to. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133608	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are a few brief comments. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133612	First of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that we managed to make a speech about Turkey without even mentioning the human rights violations in Turkey. I thought that was so impressive. Thumbs up! And then I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: is the rapporteur of the Left aware that the Danish security authorities have warned the Danish Government about the risk of such visa freedom to a country with tens of thousands of potential terrorists?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133642	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133644	I am sorry that I did not sum up all 72 points, including human rights, but I have only limited time up here. In addition, we are well aware of the safety risk that this is considered to entail. This is part of a larger agreement where we see the overall effect of this agreement, i.e. that the migratory flow across the sea between Turkey and Greece is minimised, outweighs the security risk and other aspects of visa freedom that we may not look at with great rejoicing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133718	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133720	Is it correct to understand that with this agreement any terrorist can get on a plane in Istanbul and 31⁄2 hours after being in Copenhagen and show his passport and then get on with his job in Copenhagen, just as we saw how the Turkish authorities released a terrorist who had tried to murder a Danish citizen in Denmark? Is it correct to understand that this is how visa freedom is going to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133745	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133746	There is the utmost confidence in our security services, including the cooperation of our security services with the very effective Turkish security services, so that this will not happen. I cannot, of course, stand here and guarantee that there is not a man from Germany who crosses the border with Denmark and makes a terrorist attack. Unfortunately, that is the reality we are living in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133808	Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133811	I have to say that I am very surprised at the rapporteur's last reply. The rapporteur speaks of the European Union and now I quote the rapporteur 'our very effective cooperation with the Turkish police authorities'. I just have to point out to the rapporteur that two of the things that are missing in order to achieve this visa freedom are precisely 1) an operational cooperation agreement with Europol, which Turkey does not currently have, and 2) cooperation with the Turkish authorities on police investigation mechanisms. The two things are missing at the moment, and I am therefore very surprised that the rapporteur is standing and talking about very effective cooperation between Turkey and Denmark. I would like to know where the rapporteur has that information, because it is obviously not available to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133904	I spoke in the way I did, among other things. Given that I have worked for a year in Turkey as a diplomat, where I have also been down to see some of the Danes who have been detained by the Turkish authorities on the border with Syria. It is assumed that there have been over 100 Danes in fighting for various extreme groups in Syria. A large proportion of them have been detained by the Turkish authorities when they have tried to cross the border back into Turkey, and in cooperation with the Danish authorities these people have been sent back again. So there is very, very close cooperation between our police authorities and the Turkish authorities. I am not saying that cooperation is perfect, but I am saying that there is a very, very close cooperation which must at least be appreciated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133953	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518133955	It could be that the rapporteur would then have to address the European Commission and inform the European Commission that they could put a stop to one of the things that Turkey has yet to fulfil, and thus the rapporteur can also help his minister out of the cat-ache that the minister has suffered by saying no to something that the European Commission has proposed. I would just like to end by asking the rapporteur: how does the rapporteur view the possibility of Turkey achieving an operational cooperation agreement with Europol within a month and a half? Now I am thinking of the fact that we in Denmark have some challenges in obtaining such an operational cooperation agreement within 12 months, but Turkey must have it within a month and a half in order to meet the requirements of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134039	Now I think we are talking about two different things here. I am well aware that negotiations are under way between Denmark and the European Union on our Europol cooperation. What we are discussing here today in connection with F 41 is therefore visa-free for Turkish citizens to the European Union. So I do not know exactly where the European Union and Turkey are in their Europol negotiations. Unfortunately, I have to be the rapporteur's answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134101	Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134104	Again, I should like to say that I am surprised that the European countries, which once stood for real power and general principles, are being driven around the chain by a tyrant like Erdogan. So, I think it is very, very strange to hear an argument for us to have any reason to trust Erdogan and Turkey when you see the things he is doing at the moment. While the Germans, Merkel, are trying to make an agreement with him, he raises cases in Germany against German comedians or satirists. That's really weird. And then we have to expect that agreement to last at all, that is, when you think about how he behaves at the moment. I just can't understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134205	With all due respect to the rapporteur, I would like to say once again that these are very different things. We are not discussing the German comedian who is not allowed to use any of his quotes according to a judgment that has fallen in Germany. We are talking about an agreement on possible, in the future, visa freedom for Turkish citizens into the EU, in return for being able to return migrants as part of a larger agreement, as part of an agreement that has already contributed to a 90% reduction in the number of migrants across the sea from Turkey to Greece. The 90% reduction. I think we should be very pleased about this, and I am sure that the Danish People's Party does too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134245	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134247	In fact, I am not sure I am doing that, not in relation to the fact that I do not want to put a plug in that hole, but in relation to allowing Erdogan to do the work that we should have done in Europe, that is to say, to close the external borders and have proper border controls at home, permanent border controls. In fact, I think that was a task that we could have solved ourselves. But since we don't want to do the dirty work, we put Erdogan to it. That deal lasts exactly until Erdogan finds out he doesn't want to do that anymore. And then he can actually help to ensure that there are plenty and lots of refugees coming to Europe as soon as it suits him.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134327	I don't think we're letting Erdogan do our job. The fact that the number of migrants and asylum seekers across the sea from Turkey to Greece has fallen by 90%, I also see in part as a sign that the Turkish authorities have tightened up controls at their own borders. And it is now also part of Turkey's own responsibility to ensure that this migratory stream does not come from Turkey towards Greece. So I actually think this is a really, really nice deal. And the fact that we can send migrants and asylum seekers from an EU country like Greece back, I am sure that the Danish People's Party also thinks that it is a better idea than to leave them in the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134402	Then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134405	Thank you. Is the rapporteur aware of whether any Danish security organisations, the National Police Department, the PET continue even the list • have warned the Danish Government against visa freedom between Denmark and Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134423	I am well aware that this involves a certain risk, but, as I answered almost the same question earlier, we believe that the agreement which slows down or, at least, significantly reduces the number of asylum seekers coming to Greece in a trade where visa freedom is then included, if Turkey meets some requirements, is a trade that is better than if you do nothing and is better than if you just see one million migrants crossing from Turkey to Greece and up to Europe. In my view, that influx represents a much greater risk than visa freedom with Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134500	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134502	Now I did not actually ask the rapporteur's position. I asked whether the rapporteur is aware of whether Danish security organisations have warned the Danish Government against visa freedom between Denmark and Turkey. I would like an answer to that. The rapporteur then says that the rapporteur has confidence in the Turkish authorities. That's what Mr. Marcus Knuth in his answer to Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Excuse me, the Turkish authorities, we are talking about the authorities that released, released a man wanted for attempted murder in Denmark, even handed him over to the Islamic State. Does the rapporteur sincerely believe that the rapporteur and the Left have confidence in the Turkish authorities? That was two questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134554	Let me express myself as precisely as I can at all. I have not seen the warning that the rapporteur refers to here in writing, but I am aware that it has been spoken about. Unfortunately, I have to be guilty of the fact that I haven't seen it one hundred percent exactly. But I think we are talking about the same thing, precisely that a certain security risk is involved in this visa freedom. However, as I said, I believe that this visa freedom is something we are looking at with concern, but it is also something that is better than seeing another million or two million asylum seekers flowing through Europe and seeing many of them, without knowing who they are, streaming into Denmark then seeking asylum. I think the deal is a hundred percent better. Now I have my doubts about the rapporteur's second question. Yes, trust the Turkish authorities. I am not saying that we have a hundred per cent confidence in the Turkish authorities, but I say that the intelligence service cooperates with the Turkish intelligence authorities, which makes me confident that of course you will have a very, very effective filter for who comes to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134653	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there was a final speaker for a brief comment. Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. It's still allowed to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134701	Excuse me and thank you very much. I was just thinking that in his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that the security risk that this entails is, as it were, offset by the good in the agreement, by reducing the number of migrants. Could the rapporteur please elaborate on this? Because it may sound a little bit like if there's a terrorist attack, we can say, well, but this deal makes it up to you. And maybe it's not so lucky.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134729	I tried to sketch it before. Well, I am not saying that we have some kind of blind trust in the Turkish authorities, and that is also why I say that I am aware that there is a certain security risk. But if the question is whether we are going to grant visa freedom to Turkey, if Turkey meets these 72 requirements, or whether we are going to see a situation where there are another 1 million or 2 or 3 million who are taking over the Greek archipelago and continuing into Greece and up into Europe, and that again there will be tens of thousands of asylum seekers, of whom we do not know exactly who it is coming to Denmark, then I see the latter scenario as significantly more risky for Denmark than visa freedom for Turkish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134811	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134813	Thank you. The rapporteur also says that if the 72 requirements are not met, we can choose to suspend this agreement, but that also requires a qualified majority. And if Denmark disagrees, but is up against a qualified majority, will it not be possible for us to suspend the agreement? Is it not correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134832	As far as this is concerned, I do not have much concern, as I know, all the countries that I am aware of, and which are also having a similar debate right now, with the same concern about this visa freedom. But, of course, it is something that can be suspended, firstly, if it is abused and, secondly, it only comes into force if the 72 points are complied with by the Turks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134856	Then there are no more comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518134909	I would like to say that I look forward, with the comments of the rapporteur, to the Minister coming up here to clarify what the Danish safety authorities have actually told us, that is to say, what kind of specific warning they have been given. So I look forward to the Minister doing so. In relation to this discussion, I would like to say in general terms that the Enhedslisten supports the fact that it will be as easy as possible to obtain permission to visit other countries, and that is why we also welcome it when it is possible to relax or even completely abolish visa rules. From there, however, and then, to pay less visa rules to close your eyes to dramatic human rights violations, there is a piece, and that is exactly what the European Union has proposed in connection with the proposed visa agreement with Turkey. How is it, however, that Turkey miraculously, in the course of zero-point five, seems to be able to meet almost all 72 requirements in order to be able to abolish the visa requirement? Even now, it can be said that it is totally unrealistic that they can live up to the rest, and it will require release after release if it is to be taken seriously. It has to be said that the only explanation is that leading forces in the European Union are willing to close their eyes to something else: Erdogan acts as the EU's doorkeeper and prevents refugees from reaching the EU's borders. To achieve this, the European Union has not just been willing to de facto relax the conditions for visa liberalisation. They have also been willing to close their eyes to the massive repression of human rights in Turkey that we are experiencing: for example: refugees from Syria who are robbed, beaten, are sent back across the border; that, for example, journalists and media people who are fired, imprisoned and even murdered; that, for example, The European Parliament has a role to play in this area, and it has a role to play in this respect. Kurds whose homes are attacked, bombed, hunted on the run for hundreds of thousands. Not only that; some EU leaders have even accepted attacks on our freedom of expression in the face of a boundless kneefall, letting the rulers of Turkey threaten and prosecute satirists and critics in our countries. We do not want to support the trade in horses. Of course, it would be best if we could help to put an end to the repression in Turkey, but until that happens, we will at least prevent the compensation from being paid by going against the entry into force of the envisaged visa agreement. This does not mean that we can support the proposal for adoption by the Danish People's Party. Whether or not to require a visa from another country has nothing to do with its geographical location or political system, and to attribute certain and unchangeable values to an entire country and its people is, in our opinion, both ahistory and undynamic. I think, for example, that the Danish People's Party should consider that it is less than 20 years ago that the right to a child's bank was finally abolished in Denmark, specifically in 1997, and at that time the abolition even happened only with the support of just over half of this Parliament, when a whole block in the Folketing actually voted against. Today it appears almost as an archdan value that you do not beat your children, and I think that is fantastic, but it is a value that is of relatively new date. Values can change. This can happen in Denmark, and it can happen in Turkey. Therefore, we cannot support a general wording such as the fact that the country and its values do not belong at all in Europe. On the other hand, we agree that visa liberalisation would be a completely wrong signal to send to Erdogan in the current situation. Therefore, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Turkey should not obtain visa facilitation on the part of the EU, given the deteriorating human rights situation in Turkey. The European Union should not give Turkey relief at a time when Turkey is restricting freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and the rights of minorities. • V 66).
ParlaMint-DK_20160518135410	This proposal, too, is part of the further debate on this subject. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Was it on? No, I think we're gonna have to rethink it. I'm really sorry, but just before Mr. Simpson... Søren Søndergaard took the first step down the stairs, there was a questioner on the way. Søren Søndergaard It doesn't matter. That's good. Thank you. Yeah, we're gonna take it the right way. Here you go. I wasn't paying attention, too, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518135450	Yes, I'd like to ask Mr. Søren Søndergaard about something, for Mr. Søndergaard. Søren Søndergaard was fascinated by Mr. Marcus Knuth, but I must say that I am also fascinated that Mr. Søren Søndergaard can draw a direct parallel from the right of reproof to Islamic State terrorism. I find that fascinating too. I'll tell you what. However, I have noted that this is not such a fundamental opposition that the Enhedslisten has against visa freedom for Turkey. Therefore, I would really like to know what it is that is needed in the Enhedslisten's optics if Turkey is to be offered visa freedom. So is it meeting the seven criteria that need to be met, or is it improving the human rights situation, or what is it necessary to achieve where Enhedslisten would think it was a good idea for Turkish citizens to be able to enter Denmark without a visa?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518135543	Sir. Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518135544	Thank you. Well, it's a combination. It is, of course, the combination that does not mean that having the opportunity to enter Denmark from Turkey will pose a problem for Denmark either way. So, of course, it's a combination.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518135601	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518135602	I have to understand this in that it is not the seven criteria that it is not necessarily the human rights situation, but actually something quite third. Then I would say that then it is probably relatively long-term prospects for Turkey to obtain visa freedom, and I am delighted about that. I would just like to ask, also in line with the debate that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen raised, something about terrorism: the fact that there is widespread terrorism in a country, is it something that the Enhedslisten considers to be a no go?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518135639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518135640	Yes, of course. It is one of the elements, it is perfectly obvious. Because it poses a threat to a country if you are not able to prevent terrorists coming in. Then it is possible that this problem can be solved in other ways than through visas, i.e. visas, as we now have it. There are, for example: the American system, where you fill out some forms in advance, which are then examined before you arrive; there are different options and different ways to do it. However, our basic starting point is that it must be possible for people to travel to other countries and experience other countries and return to their own homes. The less difficult the better, but it is clear that this should not happen as long as it can pose a threat to the countries to which they come.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518135723	Thank you to the rapporteur. And now, at least, there's no more. Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518135724	Thank you. The refugee agreement between the European Union and Turkey is controversial and gives rise to many reflections, including in the Liberal Alliance: the question of proportionality in terms of benefits against action, the issue of Turkey's non-respect of human rights, the question of whether Turkey is at all a desirable partner in something as delicate as the handling of the refugee and migrant crisis, and, of course, the question of whether it is wise to put visa freedom and negotiations on membership of the European Union in the perspective of Turkey. The questions are many and serious. When we in the Liberal Alliance support the agreement, it is primarily on the basis that the alternative to reaching an agreement is worse. The alternative is not to cooperate with a country-by-country neighbouring country of the European Union which, on the one hand, has serious human rights problems and, on the other hand, has up to 3 million refugees within its borders. We in Europe have an interest in trying to have some sort of controlled cooperation with such a country. The aim of the agreement is to put an end to the flow of migrants travelling from Turkey to Greece, which in all agreements reflects the content of that agreement also the wishes of both parties to the agreement. Turkey was engaged in negotiations with both an acceleration in negotiations on Turkish membership of the EU and the possibility of visa freedom for Turkish citizens wishing to visit the EU on holiday or on business. The latter has been met in the agreement, against Turkey meeting 72 criteria, and that is precisely the point at the heart of a veritable nervous war between the political leaders in Ankara and Brussels respectively. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not believe that the European Union should give in to the pressure of the Turks to deliver on the issue of visa freedom until all 72 criteria are met. In the European Union, we should not be intimidated to relax our demands, but insist that Turkey should, of course, live up to its share of the agreement, otherwise, frankly, it is not worth much. Developments in Turkey are worrying at many levels. As it stands today, it should not and cannot be included in European cooperation, and the European Union must, from the outset, be firm and consistent in insisting that Turkey fulfil its obligations under the refugee agreement. If Turkey does so, we may have a slender hope of seeing some improvement once it comes to respect for human rights and the maintenance of fundamental freedoms. In this debate, we have the opportunity to influence Turkey's action, and it is precisely for this reason that it is crucial that the European Union keep Turkey stable on its commitments. We in Europe must ensure that we have tools for further negotiations, and that is why we want the suspension mechanism to be strengthened so that any visa waiver can be suspended if it is abused or if Turkey no longer meets the criteria that may have led to visa freedom. The agreement is in isolation from a universal response to the refugee and migrant crisis, because it requires, first and foremost, the EU to manage the management of the external borders, but we therefore believe that this is an element in dealing with this very serious situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518140052	Thank you. We have two hours for this debate and there must also be room to ask questions to the Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. I'm just asking you to be a little reluctant for a while. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518140111	I am, in fact, always fond of Mrs Christina Egelund's positive mind. I think that is very typical of Mrs Christina Egelund. But I just have to ask Mrs Christina Egelund if she is aware of the speech made by Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Thursday, where Recep Tayyip Erdogan among others. indicated that no dictation of any kind by the European Union would be accepted, even as regards the fulfilment of the last seven criteria. There it is, then, that I would just like to ask Mrs Christina Egelund whether Mrs Christina Egelund has an expectation of what will happen if Turkey does not have visa freedom on 1 July.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518140151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518140153	Thank you for thinking that I should have a particularly positive mind. It's lovely, especially when the world is falling around us. I am not familiar with the speech that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth asks. However, with the report by the author, I can only say that when Erdogan insists on relaxing his commitments, it only makes even greater demands on the European Union to be even more firm that Turkey must, of course, live up to its share of the agreement, and that is also the essence of what I said: in the nerve war that is taking place now, and I consider it to be, we in the European Union must not bow to Turkey's position and insist not to live up to the last seven out of the 72 criteria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518140247	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518140249	One of the requirements that Turkey has yet to meet is that of the operational cooperation agreement with Europol. I would like to know how the rapporteur views the possibility that it will be possible for Turkey to reach such an agreement within one and a half months. Now we have heard a lot about how difficult it is for Denmark to reach such an agreement in 12 months. That is why it might be interesting to hear how the rapporteur views the possibility that this can be done for Turkey at 11⁄2 months.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518140319	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518140322	Now there is a great deal of speculation about how quickly and how and whether it is possible to achieve operational agreements with Europol at all. Turkey's situation is then in relation to Denmark's another. Turkey has another legal platform, since they are not a member of the European Union and are therefore clearly defined as a third country, so that that part of the Europol discussion has been completed. Whether this can be clarified in one and a half months, I simply have no answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518140347	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. René Gade, the alternative. We will also save minutes if we sit at the rapporteur's table. Maybe just seconds, but that's enough too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518140409	I stand here on behalf of our usual rapporteur in this area, Rasmus Nordqvist, and in the alternative, we have been very sceptical about this agreement from the outset. We fully recognise that there is a need for new solutions, including solutions that may be problematic and that you may not be 100% in agreement with, but we are very, very far from agreeing that Denmark should make such an agreement as the one we are discussing today. We believe that, in many areas, Denmark's responsibility, and indeed that of Europe, is waived when choosing a partner such as Turkey with the challenges that are in that country today, with the leadership it has, to be such an important player. With the negotiating basis that we are giving to Turkey at the moment with this agreement, where in many ways we become dependent on their participation in resolving this major refugee crisis that we are facing, we are simply going to land in a situation which, in the alternative, cannot be said to be the right way, although it may seem to be able to resolve things more quickly than we would otherwise be able to resolve them. On today's debate on whether we should offer visas in a kind of horse-trading with Turkey, I would say that I think that the free right to travel back and forth, which has also been heard about earlier in the day, can so much support the alternative. Turkey must also benefit from this if it does not deserve it. We do not think that Turkey should be on a list where it can never be brought closer to EU cooperation. On the contrary, it would be gratifying to see Turkey one day in this cooperation. It's just an incredibly long way to go right now. That is why we are opposed to the use of a process of rapprochement, which must be shown here on an equal footing as in Turkey internally and on our side smells of being, even if that is not the intention at all. They say we can be ready to deal with this visa waiver. It is so far from what to offer Turkey at present. In other words, Turkey, in some short-term way for Europe, is remedying the problem that we have, among other things. Here in Europe, but as has actually been seen globally. We may be the ones who have the most powerful shoulders to face that problem. By giving that responsibility and that basis of negotiation to Turkey, we are creating a situation that is unsustainable. We believe instead that the solution that is being sought with this agreement will simply push the problems further into the future. Then one of the follow-up questions to me will probably be: What do we do then, what is your alternative? After all, I have just outlined that this alternative, with the agreement reached with Turkey, certainly does not solve the problem itself. This means that it is postponed and, to a large extent, postponed for a period of time for Europe. However, our alternative solution is simply to face up to the problem and start acting unequivocally and decisively towards creating common international solutions. I would say that we must support Denmark's inclusion in the quota system that is being set up by the European Union. It does not really matter that we are already receiving as many as we might be allocated under the agreement, which could then be the one we should be under. The whole hop is that we're pointing a direction. Denmark is able to do so. We must show that direction in the international forums where we are present, even if we cannot solve the problem ourselves. We're not so naive to think that Denmark can solve this problem. We don't believe that Denmark can accommodate this huge challenge. But we believe that we can help to say how things should be done. Then we can take the lead, take our share and press for that, when we actually meet the demands of the people who have to be welcomed under the European agreement that could be made, then we are in a very different place from many of the other countries. Many of the other countries cannot see at all, that they have to comply with the contractual standards that would be required. We could then talk about whether a much more progressive agreement could be reached so that not only a number of refugees are received on the basis of the size of the country, but also what kind of country we are and whom we accept best. Can you start looking at who we'd be best at accepting? Could you look at what conditions we have in Denmark to accept refugees? Are there any countries that are less well placed to accept them right now? So the whole debate is what we should be doing. But we must not go in and say that we do not want to participate in international cooperation and solve the problems together. But with this particular agreement, we solve the short-term and wrong thing and we disclaim responsibility on behalf of Denmark and Europe, so we are against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518140934	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it is the next rapporteur and that is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518140950	Thank you. For the Radical Left, it is really, really important that the European Union has finally taken steps to act together. That is not enough, but it is absolutely crucial that we try to solve the task together. The overall agreement between the European Union and Turkey is of crucial importance in this context, and the visa agreement is, after all, part of the overall arrangement. The next step must and must then be the solidarity of the refugees who come to Europe. It is very good that we in the European Union are willing to help the Turks meet the economic challenge of the many, many Syrian refugees in Turkey. This should have happened a long time ago, just as EU aid to Lebanon and Jordan should also increase significantly and rapidly. On the other hand, I am concerned, as others have also pointed out, when both NGOs and human rights experts criticise the way in which refugees and migrants are treated during their return from Greece to Turkey. It is absolutely essential that the European Union upholds its own values, including in terms of the treatment of refugees. Like Denmark, the EU is built on fundamental values of equal value and respect for human rights. This cannot be compromised either in Denmark, in the European Union or in the agreement with Turkey. They must, of course, live up to all parts of the agreement. I do not think, and here I agree with the Minister, that everything, every detail of the agreement, can be demanded to work perfectly from the first day, but we must also face up to reality and, of course, take seriously how the agreement works in practice and follow it. These are people we are dealing with all around, and whether or not they have a chance of ultimately obtaining asylum in the European Union, they must be treated properly and dignifiedly. For this reason, the Radical Left has the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that any visa waiver is an essential element of the overall arrangement with Turkey. Parliament calls for the government not to support visa freedom for Turkey until the conditions set out in the Visa Action Plan are met. The Folketing expects to ensure that human rights and fundamental rights are respected as outlined in the Action Plan and the EU-Turkey comprehensive agreement. • V 67).
ParlaMint-DK_20160518141242	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is also part of the further negotiations. Thank you. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518141305	This debate is, after all, a continuation of previous debates on the Turkey Agreement, and I have expressed our position on it in the past. We think that this is an issue that is important and relevant, but we see no reason why Turkey should be rewarded for doing the work that is the case here, especially when we have no confidence that Turkey will do so in a satisfactory way and when there is the human rights situation in Turkey at the moment. That is also why we are behind the proposal for adoption made by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, in order to take that view as well. So there's no news from us on this. One might wonder why we should have the debate here today, but that is what we do and, as I said, we do not support the agreement, but we support the proposal for adoption that we are behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518141409	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518141418	That is true, as a couple of rapporteurs have said. It's not a perfect deal. This is not an optimal agreement. One might have actually insisted that Turkey respect human rights and the free press in Turkey, but it is an important agreement, it is a necessary agreement that the European Union has concluded with Turkey. There are two objectives to it, and that is one of them. reducing the flow of refugees, but also ensuring that Syrian refugees in Turkey have better conditions so that they do not have incentives to flee further. On the other hand, Turkey is being given the prospect of visa freedom. Turkey has been promised freedom of visas in black and white, but only when it meets all the requirements, and if Turkey implements the requirements required and is approved by the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament, there is an agreement in place. Last week the Commission announced that Turkey still needs to meet more requirements, about seven, before visa freedom can be granted, and these are some requirements that the Turkish Government will have difficulty meeting by the end of June. Objectively speaking, these are tough demands, among others. indirectly recognition of the independence of the Government of Cyprus. It's gonna be a hard camel to swallow for the Turks. Today, Turkey is demanding that Greek Cypriots apply for visas, as if they were not EU citizens, and that discrimination must cease before visa freedom can be discussed. Then there are also demands for document security, data protection, but also, and very important, for the Turks to do something about their anti-terrorist leave, which actually affects journalists and politicians who are fighting for the rights of the Kurds. If you are critical of Erdogan, you can risk prosecution and imprisonment, and we cannot have that. So this is a good way to pressure the Turks to move, at least, towards respect for human rights and freedom of the press. But, as I said, these are difficult demands. It's a long process. It is not certain that they will do so by the end of June, but if they do, we have an agreement and an agreement is an agreement, and if you do not want that agreement, you should not have concluded it. So we in the Conservative People's Party believe that meeting those requirements, they must also have visa freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518141724	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth for a brief comment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518141728	I understand, sir. Naser Khader, although there is little brick in the hooks, basically believes that it is an agreement that is excellent and that it must be respected. I think what is interesting in this debate is that not only Mr. Naser Khader, but also other rapporteurs, have indicated that the reduction in the flow of migrants that has taken place is due to this agreement. I refuse to believe that. I think it is a question of Macedonia closing the border between Greece and Macedonia so that we cannot go further north. However, if this is such a good agreement, it is an agreement that we must do a great deal to stick to, and that is what I am, on the basis of the rapporteur's knowledge of the Arab world. I know that Turkey is not an Arab country, but still will have to ask the rapporteur: what does the rapporteur think President Erdogan will do if he does not get an agreement on visa freedom on 1 July? Can he stand to lose face and continue to accept asylum seekers who return from Europe, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518141834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518141837	I believe there is a link between the agreement and the influx. We can look at the number that is coming to Denmark today. We could also see in September last year, when Erdogan opened up, an increase in influx, among other things. on the Danish motorways. So there's a connection between the deal and the influx. Compared to Erdogan, I'd say he's getting worse and worse. I don't know if you can say this from the platform, but he's a bad guy. Can you do that? Yeah, it's okay. We all agree he's a bad guy. He says so much, and he has also threatened to drop the agreement if they do not obtain visa freedom. But if he loses face, we don't care. We have an agreement and if we meet the requirements that have been laid down as a condition of the agreement, that is what we are going for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518141937	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518141939	After all, it is brave to say such things as Mr. Naser Khader says here. At least a German comedian named Bohmermann knows something about that. Now we'll have to see if Mr. Naser Khader is exposed to the same thing. But I just have to ask again: if you have an agreement and that agreement cannot be fulfilled on 1 July, how long do you think Conservatives actually have an agreement? Do you have an agreement for an unlimited period or do you have an agreement until Turkey no longer fulfils its part of the agreement? Well, how long do you have that deal? Because I very much doubt that Turkey believes that it has an agreement after 1 July. But assuming that they mean it, how long do the Conservatives really think they have an agreement like that? And how far can we go in accepting such an agreement with the developments in Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142031	The Turkish Government also disagrees internally. The Prime Minister insists that an agreement is an agreement, even though Erdogan was out to question the agreement. What is important is not so much the deadline in June. What is important, we believe, is that the requirements for implementing the agreement are met. If you meet those requirements, it is a step in the right direction in helping human rights defenders in Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142103	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142107	Thank you. I understand that the Conservative rapporteur feels an obligation to the 2013 agreement with Turkey, which was probably supported in the European Parliament. We were against it because it was a bad deal, and it was holed up like a sieve, but leave it alone. There remains, then, how to interpret that agreement. I just want to know about Mr. Knox. Naser Khader agrees with at least some of us that the prerequisite for saying that the agreement that has then been reached has been fulfilled is that the people who are imprisoned under legislation that is clearly contrary to that agreement will, of course, be released. I'm sure sir. Naser Khader knows these cases of Turkish journalists who have been imprisoned for writing the truth. Obviously, you can't leave them back on the platform or in the prison cells. Well, then, sir. Does Khader agree that it is therefore also a condition for saying that the agreement is fulfilled, that those people are released?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142217	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142218	I believe that we have discussed this before in this Chamber that when the agreement was made it should have been much more firm in relation to human rights and the freedom of the press. But then there was a situation in which Turkey was out of hand, and that is why they gave in. I think we should have stood much more firmly in relation to human rights. As I see from some of the demands that have still not been met, some of them mean that the Turks are being forced to change their anti-terrorist leave, which, among other things, is not enough. In addition, journalists and politicians who fight for the rights of the Kurds are suffering.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142300	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142303	Allow me to conclude that this was a 'yes', in other words a 'yes' to the fact that the agreement can only be considered fulfilled if people who are in prison contrary to that agreement are, of course, released. In that case, I would like to thank the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142318	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142320	Agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142323	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142327	I really think it is a little sad that we are standing like this and discussing some basic issues that are obvious to everyone. It was a little pious to say a bandit. I would say that Erdogan is an authoritarian tyrant who both oppresses his own citizens and is now also trying to restrict freedom of expression for German citizens. When is the trip to Denmark? It's the kind of person you make a deal with and think it's gonna last. On the one hand, the agreement is made; on the other hand, he stands and pours verbal poison and bile on various European leaders. I would say that this is a testament to the fact that the European Union is at least at its knees. In order to be dragged around the nose of such a type as Erdogan, I find completely incomprehensible. But it's because you haven't done your job well enough. Because Schengen's external borders could have been secured, and that has not been done. And a permanent border control could have been introduced at home. You haven't done that. In other words, the future of Europe is now largely in Erdogan's hands, and I do not find that reassuring.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142444	Again: I believe that there should have been a great deal more commitment to human rights in relation to Erdogan and Turkey than they did. I do not think that the European Union negotiated with Turkey from a strong position. It seemed like you wanted a quick deal. The demand for respect for human rights could actually have been insisted upon. I think that should have been done. At the same time, however, I would like to say that we needed an agreement and we could have had a better agreement if we had stood much more firmly on the fundamental principles of freedom of the EU countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142530	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142532	Then I would like to ask the simple question: had the agreement with Turkey been necessary if it had been the case that the European Union had been working to secure the external borders adequately? For example, if we were to create permanent border controls at home, would it not be a much better solution than to let our destiny and the fate of Europe depend on such a type as Erdogan?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142606	In such situations as we have experienced over the past year, border controls have been necessary in Denmark, but this is not the most effective. The most effective is a much more effective external border control, but the European Union has not worked towards this in the best possible way. However, regardless of whether we had had it, Erdogan and Turkey would have played a very important role in relation to the influx we experienced last September when he opened his borders and pushed the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142650	Thank you. Then there is no further comment to Mr. Naser Khader, and then it's the Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518142709	I believe in many ways that we have had a good debate in which we have discussed an extremely important element in the efforts to deal precisely with the refugee and migrant situation in Europe, namely the EU-Turkey Declaration of 18 March and the question of possible visa-free status for Turkey. Of course, there were those who were quite expected to be critical of the European Union's agreement with Turkey. The critics have not in any way concealed that from today's debate, and that is quite understandable. It is critics who believe that the European Union has gone far too far in its response to Turkey. I note, however, that most parties in the Folketing share the view that the issue of visa freedom is inextricably linked to the EU's overall commitment to Turkey, in particular the possibility of returning irregular migrants who may have arrived in Greece. As long as the EU's external borders are not under control, it is not possible to resolve the refugee crisis. This is a European problem that needs to be resolved in a European context. That is in the light of the EU-Turkey Declaration, and it is also in this light that we need to see the agreement with Turkey on speeding up visa freedom for Turkish citizens. If we do not help Turkey to deal with the refugee situation, there is only one alternative, and that is that the influx to Europe will increase to an extent. We simply cannot deal with this in the real world. Let me then stress once again that the government cannot support a proposal on visa freedom for Turkish citizens until Turkey meets all the conditions laid down in the road map being worked on. We will work to strengthen the existing suspension mechanism so that any visa waiver can be suspended more quickly and to a greater extent if abuses occur. This is a line that I have also seen support for today, and I am, of course, pleased about that. The government wants us to recognise Denmark in the future also by the things we cherish: freedom of expression, democracy, equality and responsibility for the community. I hope that in the future the EU-Turkey Declaration will contribute to a lower number of asylum seekers and a smaller degree of illegal immigration into Europe and, of course, also to Denmark. The cooperation is ultimately in the interests of both Denmark and Europe, but of Turkey as well. So I would like to thank you for the debate, which I think has been very much necessary and indeed quite constructive here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143041	Then there are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143047	Thank you. I have two questions for the Minister. First of all, does the Minister share the view that the condition for Turkey to comply with the requirements set out in the 72 visa waiver requirements, in particular requirement no. 65 on compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights and European human rights are the release of those people who are imprisoned and convicted contrary to those demands? The second question is as follows: Marcus Knuth's explanation of the inquiry that had come from the Danish security authorities is whether the Minister will just explain what that inquiry was more precisely about. So, what exactly has the government been warned against in granting Turkey a visa waiver?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143141	I cannot, of course, stand on the floor of the Parliament and tell you, but what I can say is that it is absolutely essential for the government, and it is in all circumstances that Turkey is living up to all the 72 points in the agreement and, as it now stands, there are seven points that Turkey has failed to meet. Then it can be said that 7 out of 72 are not many, but that is when you look at what points Turkey has not lived up to, and before Turkey meets all 72 points, and hence the 7 that are missing, of which five are quite heavy points, then the position of the government is, as I have said: there is no visa requirement. It is absolutely essential for us that Turkey should meet all the points that have been raised, and that is in every way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143239	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143241	Thank you, Minister, and we'll try the questions one more time. Does that mean that we should live up to the release of those people who have been arrested and imprisoned and convicted in violation of the legislation that the European Union is calling for changed? Well, it's a relatively simple question you can answer yes or no. The second question was what has been informed. We are not interested in hearing names or organisations or anything like that here in the Folketing, but what is the general concern of the security services when it comes to abolishing visa requirements vis-à-vis Turkey? Well, what's that all about? I guess it's hardly a secret. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143336	Of course, we are not going to stand here today in the Danish Parliament and discuss which inquiries there may be between authorities, and certainly not of this nature. I think so, sir. Søren Søndergaard is fully aware of this. I know, sir. Søren Søndergaard's great parliamentary experience in all possible ways writes that he is quite well aware that we are not discussing this in Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143409	Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143411	It is an absolutely terrific and really terrible defeatism that the Minister is expressing here. After all, the minister says directly that if it were not for this agreement, it would just come in with asylum seekers to Europe. She stretches her arms up like that and says: Well, we can't do anything about that, but fortunately we have this deal. I just have to say that I think the Minister should get into the fight, otherwise there is no reason for the Minister to be a minister. In other words, if the Minister does not think that the Minister can do anything about it, then the Minister should pull himself together. Is the Minister not concerned that there are something called push factors and something called pull factors? There are extremely many pull factors in relation to Europe. One of them is the dream of having a new life in Europe. If we take the dream of having a new permanent life in Europe from the people who are looking for Europe, then it will effectively reduce the flow. I don't understand why the government isn't moving on that track. You can just ask the Australian ambassador ▪ he has plenty of good advice on how to do it. I just think it's about getting started instead of depositing its political power with Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143522	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143524	I don't even think you have to ask the Australian ambassador. I think you can just ask the Danish People's Party or Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth on this question. But we could also ask the government, because we have tightened up precisely in relation to the pull factors mentioned by the rapporteur. If the tightenings we had carried out had not been implemented, the influx to Denmark would have looked different. After all, I still think that the flow should be reduced, and it can still be reversed, because the number of people entering Europe is likely to increase over the summer. But there is no doubt that the tightening up of the conditions of residence we have implemented, among other things. together with the Danish People's Party, and the border control that we have introduced, is exactly what is being asked here, namely to take action on these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143623	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143628	Then the Minister also acknowledges that there are some pull factors. So I just don't understand why the Minister thinks it is so important to make an agreement with Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Turkey on this issue. Because we sit with the key ourselves; we just don't want to use it. We just don't want to use the key that Australia has so well shown us how to use. I simply do not understand that. I acknowledge then that the result is that we've got the influx down because of what we've done, but we can get it even further down if only we're willing to. I don't understand why the government isn't willing to. It's basically about the survival of this country as a cultural nation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143709	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143711	Now I can tell you that I have actually used my Pentecostal to visit the Moria camp at Lesbos to see for myself how it works in practice, but also to visit the Danish employees we have sent out. There is no doubt that as things stand now, the EU-Turkey agreement has had its impact. There are quite a few people coming into Lesbos this time. And if you compare it to what it looked like last summer, I think it has to be said that it has had a very, very great effect. So we must, of course, combat the illegal migration that is taking place, but the flow of refugees that we see to Europe must, of course, also be addressed on several fronts. One is how we do it at home, and the other is the influx to Europe itself. And that is where I believe that the EU-Turkey declaration is a very, very important element.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143813	Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Dansk Folkeparti, here you go. We're gonna have to sort out the order up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143822	I would like to know whether the Minister agrees with the EU's assessment that the EU-Turkey Declaration is guaranteed, that entry into the EU for refugees and migrants is done in a legal and organised manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143839	In any case, I note that as far as Lesbos is concerned, which has been one of the places where a great many refugees and migrants from Turkey have arrived, the number of entry has fallen a lot. And I can at least also say by having been down there that the assessment is that with the entry figure that you have now and that is low, the refugees and migrants coming to Lesbos are in control now. And it is thanks to that agreement, and it is also very much thanks to the employees that we have sent out from Denmark and which I can say is doing an exceptionally great job. So I have no doubt that the effect of the agreement here is that the people who come here now are being registered. Then there are some things that make matters clear in the first instance, and then you sit and wait for them to be settled in the second instance. And, of course, it can be very interesting how it is going to fall out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143947	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518143950	The European Commission's fourth report states that the EU-Turkey Declaration is a temporary measure. Can it then be interpreted as meaning that visa liberalisation is also to be regarded as a temporary measure?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144008	With regard to visa freedom for Turkey, I would like to mention that it is not a new process that has started years ago. The acceleration of visa freedom is, in fact, a very small acceleration in terms of four months compared with the original road map. Having said that, there are still a number of points that Turkey has failed to meet, and these are also very important points. So, as has been mentioned several times today, there are 72 points which Turkey has not yet lived up to, and five of them are therefore very heavy because, among other things, Turkey has not yet lived up to. deals with their legislation on terrorism.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144050	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144054	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard asked two questions, and the Minister did not reply to any of them, so I now give the Minister a second chance. Firstly, I have to understand that the government has I also understand that the Minister will not mention even in general terms what the warnings are about. But can the Minister confirm that the Danish Government has that was the one question. The second question is: does it include Turkey having to live up to the 72 points that the people who are currently imprisoned in Turkey in violation of paragraph 65, that is to say the Convention on Human Rights, are released?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144149	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144150	So, with regard to the first, I do not want to say 'yes' or 'no' in any form to an issue such as this, and I think it is really a little strange that we should start to highlight, among other things. what may have been sent by letters back and forth or detected in relation to security services. So this is not something we are discussing here in the Folketing. We have quite, quite different forums for that. I think Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen is also familiar with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144227	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144229	The Minister has an amazing ability not to answer the questions that are being asked. I think it is quite clear to everyone who comes with it. All right, the minister won't tell me if the government has been warned by security agencies about visa freedom. When I ask about it, it's because mr. Very recently, Marcus Knuth referred to a letter that I have not heard of before in the Chair. But okay, obviously the minister won't answer that. Then I ask the second question again, i.e. the same question that Mr. Søren Søndergaard asked twice, namely: is it possible to say that Turkey is living up to the 72 points, that the people who are currently imprisoned in Turkey, contrary to paragraph 65 of the Convention on Human Rights, are being released? The Minister must be able to answer that question now that it is the fourth time the Minister has the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144324-2	So, paragraph 1, I am not aware of exactly the cases mentioned here by Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, and therefore I cannot comment on paragraph 2 on each case either. The only thing I can say, and that is exactly what I answered Mr. Søren Søndergaard, is that Turkey must meet all 72 points.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144348	Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144352	Thank you. First of all, I should like to know whether the Minister is of the opinion that this agreement solves the problem. So, this agreement that the European Union has concluded with Turkey solves the problem that we now call the refugee and migrant crisis? Is it the Minister's view that it will solve the problem or will solve it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144417	No, I do not think that this agreement alone will solve the problem, but I think it is a good contribution to solving the problem. But what you can see is that when you close the access to Europe, the gap is closed in relation to traveling to Greece from Turkey via Lesbos, there are other routes to Europe. But that does not mean that you should not do what you can. So I actually believe that this is a significant contribution. For many reasons, I think this is very much because it is the case that when you actually send back the people who have come here and put them, if I may say so, in the back of the queue in Turkey, but bring other Syrian families here, it destroys the role of the traffickers in this whole refugee and migrant crisis that we are in. And that is essential. Trafficking in human beings is a cynical business beyond all borders, and this helps to combat trafficking in human beings, and I think that is important at the same time as it closes the door to access. Risking both your life and all your money to get to Europe is the wrong way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144543	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144545	We may disagree on many things, but in the alternative it is our view that although the solutions outlined by the Minister do work, it is not desirable to resolve the problem in this way, because we think that the problem is just continuing outside the borders of Denmark and Europe. Does the Minister agree that although this manoeuvre succeeds in Denmark/Europe, the problem is still beyond Europe's borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144612	Yes, but I must also say quite clearly from my political point of view that we do not solve the problems of the Middle East by letting half the Middle East and North Africa into Europe. We simply do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144629	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144633	I guess I'm gonna repeat myself a little bit, but I guess it's happened before. Well, I just have a basic problem with this whole setup, or whatever you call it. The European countries have not been able to defend themselves, have not been able to establish the Schengen cooperation, which is the very prerequisite for the whole idea of the European Union, and because they have not been able to do so, it has now become up to Turkey to resolve the problem of the influx into Europe. And there I just have to say that it is, of course, putting the fox to guard the geese. So I simply do not understand that we have come so far or become so impotent in Europe that we must now have Erdogan to solve the problems for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144730	Well, I think that Mr. Knox... Christian Langballe has repeated himself, but then it is good that Mr. Christian Langballe is so interesting to listen to. Having said that, I still believe that precisely the EU-Turkey declaration is an important element. Now I have justified some of that in relation to Mr. René Gade's question, but I actually believe that it is an important element in the fight against trafficking in human beings as well. The fight against trafficking in human beings also reduces the flow to Europe. But then it is true, as has also been pointed out by others. Mr. René Gade, that you also find other routes. So there is one way, I think, that it is absolutely essential that we take action and, of course, it is to get the EU's external borders under control. Well, that's how far I'm quite in agreement with sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144827	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144830	I was just about to say, firstly, that under German law a German satirist is now being accused by Erdogan of violating his majesty, and secondly, that the assassin who tried to murder Lars Hedegaard has also been in the custody of Turkey and has been so arrogantly released. So I'm just thinking, is that a good picture of how much we can trust an agreement with Erdogan?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144911	I do not know whether that is a good picture, but it is at least an indication that there are still a number of problems in Turkey, among others. also in relation to their terrorist legislation, which must be resolved before Turkey can obtain visa-free access to Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144930	Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144932	Just a brief word to correct what the rapporteur on the Enhedslist said earlier. I have never said that I have had any knowledge of a warning at all. I was asked if I knew of someone and I said: I haven't seen anything. I have heard it mentioned, but it is not least because Enhedslisten seems to continue and talk about this subject. But I have not seen anything in concrete terms other than what Enhedslisten has said here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518144956	Then there are no further comments to the Minister. Thank you. Then Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth as rapporteur for the questioners would like to have a final comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518145018	Thank you, Madam President. I think it has been an interesting debate. After all, the debate has taken a great deal on the form, that is, whether Turkey should have visa freedom, and not so much on what the consequences of granting Turkey visa freedom would be. I also welcome the fact that there do not seem to be any parties in the Folketing that would follow the recommendation made by the European Commission on this basis to actually disregard the seven requirements that Turkey has not fulfilled in order to obtain visa freedom, and then grant Turkey visa freedom anyway. However, I do not feel quite safe. Because when I read the progress report that the Commission has presented, I think that it is actually possible to question very seriously whether the conditions that have already been fulfilled have been met, or whether they have just been concluded as being fulfilled. One can get there quickly, of course, that if one simply concludes that some things are fulfilled or are on the way to being fulfilled or are partly fulfilled, then perhaps we will still get to where one says at some point that is now agreed. And then we are in the situation where there is a very broad majority in this Parliament, which in that case will be prepared to say yes, namely that then Turkey can have visa freedom. I certainly do not think that is reassuring. I outlined some of the reasons for this in my rapporteur's speech: terrorism, as other parties have also mentioned; illegal immigration; the possibility of earning the right to family reunification and other things. There are plenty of problems with Turkey being given visa freedom, in the event that they do so. Perhaps the European Commission really should have taken a completely different approach. Instead of saying that we have yet to meet these seven requirements, the European Commission should have just said, as they have done in relation to many of the others, that this is partly fulfilled, and on that basis we can then recommend that visa freedom be granted. Because then the pipe would have gotten a different sound in the Folketing today. Then, of course, visa freedom would have just been laid down. I simply do not understand how Denmark's security and security will be deposited with some officials of the European Commission in this way. I simply do not understand that. There has been a great deal of talk about this, about the importance of this agreement with Turkey. I do not belong to those who believe that it has been very important. After all, the number of asylum seekers or illegal migrants crossing the Aegean began to fall when the images from the Idomeni camp showed that it was not possible to move on northwards because Macedonia had closed the border after Austria, recognizing that it cannot count on the European Union, had made an agreement with the Western Balkans to close the Western Balkans route once and for all. I think you just have to be very clear about what can make us lower our influx. If that influx is to be seriously reduced, we have the key to it ourselves. We just need to be willing to use that key. We have seen how it works, namely in Australia, and I think we should do just as Australia has done, in other words say that there is no possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits in Denmark. I can't control the other countries. But in Denmark, if you come here and ask for asylum, you can have protection, preferably in a third country, but you cannot have a new permanent existence in Denmark. However, as I said, I think it has been an interesting debate and it will be exciting to see how it will be voted in June or perhaps later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518145427	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518145429	I am not going to prolong the debate, but I was surprised that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was able to see a broad majority. I must admit that I did not see the broad majority. There is a very narrow it actually requires only one party on the bourgeois side to change its position in order for there to be a majority against it. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518145501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518145502	That's what I'm gonna give you, sir. Søren Søndergaard is right. I did not make myself quite clear. What I meant was that there are no parties other than the Danish People's Party which have expressed a fundamental opposition to granting Turkey the visa waiver. I do not see the situation in which we should change that point of view. I really cannot, but there are degrees, one might say, of opposition to it here: some deposit their political manoeuvrability in Brussels, while others say that they actually want to have the opportunity to take a position on this themselves. It would then be interesting to see how far the other parties will draw the conclusion if it is the case that visa freedom is being implemented; on the other parties, for example. is concerned to say that we must then have a referendum on the withdrawal of Schengen, for example. Well, it might be that sir... Søren Søndergaard's party would be ready for that, but if all parties will be, I do not know. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518145558	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518145559	I just want to thank you for the clarification, because it is true that it is a very narrow majority in the Folketing that carries it through here, whereas there is a relatively large opposition here in the Folketing, and that is welcome. It is also quite true that when it comes to a fundamental opposition to Turkey ever having the opportunity, whatever happens in that country, to join the communities they want, there is a disagreement in principle, and we know it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518145626	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 19 May 2016. We're gonna take a few minutes to pause until 2:00 a.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20160518150326	The sitting is resumed. The first question is to the Minister for Education and Research, and that is what Mr. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518150342	Here you go. You are welcome to read your question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518150345	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that a number of small subjects and educational and research environments are now closing as a result of the government's austerity requirements for e.g. University of Southern Denmark, including the Master's degree in European studies, the Master's degree in maritime technology and the Master's degree in interaction design?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518150407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518150409	I'd like to thank you, sir. Jacob Mark for this opportunity to repeat the main points from the interesting consultation, the interesting open consultation we had on May 10, 2016. With the division of labour between universities and us politicians, which has been adopted here in the Danish Parliament, we have instructed universities to, and I quote:..." carry out an ongoing strategic selection, prioritization and development of its research and educational fields.... That is precisely what the university law says in its terms of reference. It is therefore the university's management which is responsible for prioritising the university's activities within the framework of government and Parliament, including the financial framework. I am concerned that we have good education throughout the country, and I am therefore pleased that the University of Southern Denmark has chosen to maintain its presence in all campus cities and therefore will continue to be well represented in Esbjerg, Kolding, Slagelse and Sønderborg. As indicated in the University Act, universities themselves are responsible for the ongoing planning of professional provision. Therefore, I will also refer to the rector of the University of Southern Denmark, Henrik Dams, his own words: All the programmes closed by the University of Southern Denmark are offered elsewhere in the country, except maritime technology, which is now offered as a master, so that it better matches the students' wishes. In addition, most of the subjects closed are characterized by being very small. In one of the courses, European studies in Sønderborg, there were for example: admitted five students last year. Quote out. As a minister, I do not have a position on the specific training courses closed by the SDU, but I think it is sensible principles that Henrik Dam and SDU have used as a basis for which training courses they have chosen to close. The important thing for me is that we have high-quality education that matches the needs we have in society. In the short time I have been Minister for Education and Research, I have approved several new courses and invitations to tender in various parts of the country. It is natural with the rapid development of society that we have that not only new education is provided, but that there is also a look at when some training needs to be adjusted or closed because for one reason or another they do not match the needs that exist. My impression is that the leadership of the University of Southern Denmark has taken responsibility while taking maximum account of their core task. I note that this is a long-term plan which looks forward to three years. Like other universities, the University of Southern Denmark has chosen a responsible and long-term management decision. However, I would like to stress that I fully recognise that this is a difficult management decision and, above all, a difficult situation for the employees it concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518150709	That was a very thorough answer. That's good. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518150713	It is always nice to have thorough answers, and I would like to thank you for your answer. I would also like to thank the Minister for the consultation that he has also mentioned. The reason I also take it up today is that the consultation was largely about the closure of small subjects by the KU and the KU. I respected that at the conciliation meeting too. Now I would like to ask a few questions to the University of Southern Denmark, because I am basically concerned when universities, whether in Copenhagen, Sønderborg, Slagelse or Odense, close research environments. This is exactly what I want to do about the research environments. When you close the small subjects, you close the research environments too, and when you close the research environments, you lose knowledge that you cannot just get back because you simply fire some of the people who have invaluable knowledge. At the University of Southern Denmark, as the Minister said, the choice is to close European studies, for example. In other words, there are also some research environments in these subjects. It is also chosen to close the research environment on marine archaeology. I respect when the Minister says that she does not have a position on this, and I also asked a little about it in relation to the small subjects at the KD: is it not also the responsibility of a minister to ensure that there are still strong research environments? Is it not also a minister's duty to have an opinion on whether, for example, in the future, we are going to have a position? Need strong research environments in physics, chemistry and biochemistry at University of Southern Denmark? It could also be Greek, Latin, or whatever, at KU. Will it always be the case that if small subjects close, the Minister will just say: it is not my responsibility; I have no position; it is the universities that are sovereign in their own right? But in principle we have no guarantee of the survival of the small professions if universities choose to give priority in the long term to the survival of the large professions, because they may be more profitable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518150904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518150904-2	It is the case that the principle is the same, and I think that was also clear from the answers given to the open consultation, and there is, as such, no difference as to whether it is a subject at the University of Southern Denmark or a subject at the University of Copenhagen or at another university institution. It is regulated by the University Act. It is precisely section 3 of the University Law. 1, which requires universities to decide which research-based courses they will offer in the university's subject areas. It is also quite clear from the same legislation that the Minister of State is responsible for this matter. the Minister for Education and Research cannot require a university to provide any specific training. So it is the university's management responsibility within the framework given by government and Parliament to comply with the provisions of the university law. It is not a politician's job to determine which subjects are to be offered in the institutions of our universities. I want to hold on to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151011	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151012	So if in the future it will be the case that universities and educational institutions, because they are being financially pressured, choose to close small teams and small subjects, which may be crucial for Denmark, the Minister will not intervene. In fact, I find that quite worrying. Some of the places where this hits are in Slagelse, Kolding, Esbjerg and Sønderborg. It is true that they will continue to have a campus, but after all, education is closed, and that means that there will be students who can no longer take their education in those cities. I would like to hear how this is really in line with the government's objective, and, as such, the SF's, that more young people should be taken out to cities other than the same cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151052	It is the responsibility of universities to give priority to them. We in the Folketing take political decisions that reflect our priorities when we adopt a budget law and when politicians, as I know Mr. Jacob Mark is aware of, making decisions about a municipality's budget, it is an expression of their priorities. Exactly the same applies to university management. Then Mr. Jacob Mark on a very special issue or challenge: how to ensure that we also have higher education outside the large, traditional university cities. This is a priority for the government and, as I think I mentioned in the conciliation, we have, of course, launched a reform of our allocation system, and I think it would be obvious that in this context we are looking at the various ways in which our institutions have organised themselves. And that is how I see it as an integral part of, for example. The DNA of the University of Southern Denmark that they have a campus structure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151206	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151207	Those were exciting tones, I'd say. So the Minister would like to guarantee that, as a result of any future savings, there will not be closed campuses around. Is it the view of the Minister that a future funding system should perhaps hold hands during some of the smaller education courses which are less popular in cities other than the same cities? Is this part of the future allocation system?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151237	Now I didn't use the term guarantee. I think, moreover, that we need to take care of ourselves in order to issue guarantees from a ministerial chair. At least there are examples of this in some of Mr. Jacob Mark's former collaborators, who have been terribly ill at issuing such very firm guarantees. I said that we, on the part of the government, want to ensure that access to higher education is also available outside the major traditional university towns. We have launched a reform of our funding system, and I think it would be appropriate in this context to look at how we can support the fact that we have higher education outside the major university cities. And then I pointed out, and I see it as an important part of the DNA of the University of Southern Denmark, that you have a campus structure, that is to say that you contribute to meeting the objective of giving us access to higher education outside the traditional university towns.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151343	Thank you. Then we move on to the next question. It is also for the Minister of Education and Research, and it is also for Mr. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151353	Does the Minister agree with the rector of SDU, Henrik Dams, that the cuts made by SDU on research due to the government's austerity requirements have implications for the country as a whole?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151408	I think we have good reason to be proud of both our education and our research. Danish research does well when we compare with other countries. The government wants to maintain a high level of public research expenditure. In fact, we want to maintain it at least 1%. of our gross domestic product. This is a high level, even when we compare ourselves with other countries. At the same time, there has been no saving in basic research. However, in all parts of the public sector, it is important that we continually prioritise how we make the most of the money, given the needs there are. I have noted that the rector of the University of Southern Denmark has stated that the university has given priority to shutting down some environments completely in order to maintain the quality of other education rather than cutting a little from everywhere. The University of Southern Denmark is undertaking a very important research task in the Danish research system, not least regionally. The university will continue to do so, even if there are now a little fewer research activities in a number of areas. I have confidence in the specific management priorities of the University of Southern Denmark, and I would like to recognise the University of Southern Denmark in order to include social and, above all, regional considerations in their efficiency considerations by continuing to focus on research and education activities in all campus cities of the university. So to sum up: there will be a little less publicly funded research activities forward-looking, but the government still has a very high level of research investment, which we can be proud of. Then we must remember that there is also a potential for the institutions to strengthen research efforts by obtaining external research funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151559	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151600	Thank you. In fact, I think it is almost an insult to research in Denmark to say that there will be a little Well, we are talking about several billion kroner less research and a total research sector that has said that this will both affect the targeted research, where you like to create something that can be used in business but also free research, i.e. the free ideas. It's not something we've made up, it's kind of something they've said. I believe that what Denmark is going to live on in the future is not that we are competing to have low wages. We must compete on the good ideas that we must compete to be innovative precisely in the field of research. That's why cutting your legs on the chair we're sitting on when you cut down on research. Normally, I do not always agree with the business community, but in this case, in fact, because Novo Nordisk said in Berlingske on 27 October that the saving on research is simply not in order, because it will be difficult for Novo Nordisk in future to justify for their management and board that Denmark is the right place to place the majority of their research. In other words, it is not a SF that one might expect to call out in arms when research is cut down that says so; it is one of our biggest companies that simply threatens to move some of their activities to other countries. Isn't that worrying?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151725	Without having to demean Novo Nordisk's position here in any way, I just have to point out that it will be difficult to find any other country that contributes more to public research than Denmark. In fact, there is only South Korea. I do not know if Novo Nordisk intends to move all its research facilities to South Korea. I certainly haven't heard that. So it will be difficult for Novo Nordisk to find any other country that makes a higher contribution in percentage terms compared to GDP than Denmark, at a time when we are contributing 1%. and, as I have said, only South Korea surpasses. If we also look at what happened and compare what we used back in 2005, we can see that our research budget has actually increased by 44 per cent. In other words, we are meeting all international objectives with our research budget and our research contribution, and we are certainly in the international elite when we look at how much resources we spend on research. It is not the same as not recognising that when there are cuts, it is, of course, a difficult task to have to make those cuts, but it must of course be seen on the basis of what the starting point is and the starting point is, as I said, very high.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151847	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151849	I think it is an interesting report to Novo, who has said that it is going to affect their research, but also means that they simply cannot recruit skilled enough labour when you cut down on such positions here, cutting down on education. The fact that we are meeting European objectives is right: we are meeting the European objectives precisely because we are also withdrawing money from rent, and I have also asked the government several times without having an answer. I would like to ask quite briefly: for example. Novo says that they cannot recruit labour, and now when they say that they feel compelled to move research activities abroad, does the Minister not think that this is something that can damage the competitive situation in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518151932	Yes, certainly, but I am not sure that there is quite the parallel that the questioner is trying to draw here between the public research budget and Novo Nordisk's difficulties in finding qualified labour. I believe that, where the arrow points, it is closer to the mismatch in our education system, where we have far too many young people who today do not train where there is the greatest need in society. And that is one of the things I would really like to look at, and I hope that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party will take part in this, so that we can achieve a better balance between jobs and education or perhaps the other way around, between education and jobs, so that we can ensure that we train young people more to gain a foothold in the labour market rather than perhaps a place in the unemployment line. And that's what I think is really Novo Nordisk's big challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152024	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152025	Well, I would very much like to help ensure Novo Nordisk the labour they need in the future. However, I think that this is a bad starting point for that effort and, as such, also for an appropriation system, although I am happy to take part in the negotiations. I think it is absolutely crucial to make large billion savings in universities. I do not see how this should contribute to the efforts to obtain more skilled labour. One last thing I want to ask is whether the Minister imagines that this was such a one-off saving, understood in the sense that this was what the government chose to save during this period, or can we expect more savings in the field of research during this government's time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152106	As I mentioned earlier, I think that we should take care to give firm and granite-proof guarantees when we have a ministerial post, because there are examples of people who have gone very wrong with that. But I find it hard to imagine, if we look at the projections, that it should not continue. So without any guarantee whatsoever, I imagine nothing more than that we maintain, first and foremost of course, one percent when it comes to the public research contribution, but also as regards the university budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152148	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark. The Minister has also received a question from Mrs Mette Reissmann from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Question No. 3.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152202	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152204	Thank you. I read out my question: will the Minister, in his statements in Politiken on 5 May, guarantee that the government will not introduce user charges for higher education?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152217	Thank you for the question, and thank you for the opportunity to make it clear once again that user charges for higher education are not government policy. I told Politiken that on May 5, 2016, and I stand by it. The government will not replace State grants for higher education with general participation fees. Today it is the case that ordinary full-time education is financed by state grants and there is no legal basis for charging users. That's what I'm talking about. That is the so-called free principle, and we stand firm on that. On the other hand, training institutions may offer part of their full-time full-time training at part-time or as a single subject. Such activities are financed by partial State grants and partial participation payments. This also applies to complementary activities. For me, it is absolutely crucial that Danish young people have equal access to ordinary higher education. Education is the key to freedom for the individual and it is a gain for society. The Danish welfare model with state grants for ordinary higher education is based on a healthy principle. At the same time, it is important that public investment in higher education is used effectively so that they contribute to high professional quality in education and to young people getting relevant jobs. Higher education must contribute to growth, productivity and prosperity in Denmark as much as possible. The government will work intently to strengthen the benefits of higher education. I therefore welcome an open and open-minded debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152404	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152406	Thank you for that answer. The article in Politiken of 5 May deals, inter alia, with: A critical professor named David Palfreyman, who was not very long ago also invited to be a keynote speaker at the Minister's education day. The English professor was interviewed in Politiken, perhaps because he was a guest speaker at the Minister's education day, about his views on user fees in higher education. In short, Palfreyman believes that user fees in higher education are the right way to go. He's not hiding that at all. Where I get confused is when the Minister says in the same article on 5 May that she thinks, and I quote: 'It is good to have an external perspective, and it is very inspiring to listen to Palfreyman's messages. So it's about a man who thinks it's actually okay to pay 85,000 Danish kroner per year. years. That sounds to me like a positive indication in relation to user charges. But I can listen to the Minister now that she also says that it is not government policy and that there must be equal access. I'm so glad to hear that. However, I have to ask the Minister whether she will guarantee that the government does not introduce user charges on higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152526	As I said to Politiken, it is not government policy to introduce user charges on higher education. At the same time, I told Politiken that I think it is exciting to get input from outside and to hear about how it has been organised in other countries. One of the things that I thought was one of the most exciting things about Palfreyman's presentation at the training meeting was his description of the British, sorry, English, only in England has been introduced the motivation of students to complete the programme. There we may have something to be inspired by.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152607	After all, it is not for nothing that my concern remains, because it is almost three years ago that the Minister's predecessor in office, then he was at that time the rapporteur on the subject, Mr. Esben Lunde Larsen, was out to suggest that the Left, that is, the party of which the Minister is a member, would like to have user fees for higher education. And the consequence of that would be that fewer young people could be educated at all annually, which, according at least to the Workers' Employment Council, would mean a loss of wealth and, incidentally, less money in the Treasury. Sir. Esben Lunde Larsen also said at the time that it might well be that there would be a social battle side, but that it had to be included. What is the Minister's position on this, and what has happened in the three years since the Left has apparently changed its policy in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152659	But now I think it will be such a little pseudo-discussion, because what I have said is that it is not the government's policy to introduce contributions to ordinary higher education. Then I was given some statements by a professor who was invited to an education meeting. I think it is good to seek inspiration from the outside, and some of what I found particularly interesting about the outside inspiration was how in England we had succeeded in motivating young people to undertake an education, to be student-active and actually also to undertake an education at a very high level. It has not, as Mrs Mette Reissmann claims, gone beyond social mobility, let alone the number of young people in England who complete higher education, at least not if you listen to what the professor said at the training meeting. So, on the basis of the hints made by Mrs Mette Reissmann and the concerns expressed here by Mrs Mette Reissmann, according to what has happened in England, I would just like to recommend to Mrs Mette Reissmann to read a little more in the texts on what the situation in England actually is and what it has meant for the English education system, that Tony Blair, who is also a party colleague with Mrs Mette Reissmann, introduced contributions to higher education in Britain. According to Professor David Palfreyman, it has in no way harmed social mobility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152836	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152838	I regard Professor David Palfreyman's speech as a party contribution, and I am absolutely convinced that there are also several aspects of that truth. But let me be less pseudo-like if it confuses the Minister. I would simply like to repeat my very simple question. Can the Minister guarantee that the government will not introduce user charges for higher education • yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152859	Then I can only rely on what I have already said to Politiken and what I have actually said here several times in response to Mrs Mette Reissmann's question: the government does not want to introduce participation payments, user fees, to ordinary higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152916	Thank you both very much for a very thorough and exciting dialogue. The minister's off now, and we're gonna go over to the Attorney General's office. That is Question No 4, and the questioner is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152935	What does the government intend to do to stop the blackmail and Sharia threats that traders at Nørrebro face?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518152943	It has recently been suggested in the media that several of the bar owners of the outer Nørrebro have been subjected to harassment, threats, vandalism and extortion from a group of inappropriate young people. Under no circumstances should we allow young bullies to ravage Nørrebro and squeeze money from the pubs in the area. They should not threaten owners or guests, nor should they shout that Nørrebro is Shariazone. My position on dealing with such cases is clear: the authorities must take a firm stand against such disrespectful behaviour. It must not be a question of resources. I note that the Copenhagen Police have informed us that there is a focus on the area. About the mentioned incident, when a group of young people threw a bike against a window at a bar on Nørrebro, the Copenhagen Police have reported that the police were on site after 4 minutes. I need a full overview of the specific case and the efforts of the police, and that is why I have asked the Copenhagen Police for a detailed account of the matter and for the general response to young people's unrest and the ravages of Nørrebro, and I await that statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153046	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153048	Thank you for your answer. When I ask, it is because in the past there have been threats on Nørrebro against traders. I wonder if the Minister could perhaps tell us whether the region is also getting involved in this, because we have seen people trying to set up Sharia zones in London and Paris and elsewhere. Is this a concern shared by the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153109	I did so in connection with this matter, among other things. discussed the issue of blackmail with Denmark's Restaurants & Cafeer. I was told that they have contacted all their members, and the experience was that the problem is not very big in Denmark, but when there are cases, it is typical at Nørrebro. They found that there were 5 to 6 cases in the region. I am, of course, concerned about whether there should also be a religious element in what is going on, but I also have to wait for the statement I receive from the police about what is really going on before I can go into it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153146	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153148	Of course that's clear. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether one might fear that there may also be a dark figure. Well, are there people who might not go to the police because they don't dare for different reasons? Is that something that we are also aware of?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153200	That is why it was important for me to address an interest organisation which has direct contact with Members who, without fear of consequences, can speak to this interest organisation. The unequivocal message I received was that, unlike Germany and Sweden, the problem is not perceived in Denmark as being very big, among other things. also because the police take these things seriously and make an effort. However, I would very much like to come back to the questioner when I have the statement from the police, because we must pay attention, even when it starts in small, if it happens, because it should not be the case that such behaviour can be promoted so that it may be seen spreading as rings in the water.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153237	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153238	So when that statement comes and it turns out that there is a problem, can we be sure that the government will allocate enough police resources to crack down on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153248	With the recent police settlement, Danish police are being added 2 billion. kr. Towards 2019. And there is no doubt whatsoever that the police are currently in a difficult situation. But there must be resources to move forward to the type of action in question. As I said myself, in the situation described there was within four minutes. There is a police effort going on in this area, and I do not want to judge immediately that this is a resource problem in this context. If I think of it as that, we will need further discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153322	Thank you for the questions and answers from the Minister of Justice and Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of It's for the Secretary of Defense, and the questioner is Mr. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153338	The questioner is welcome to read his question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153358	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it is appropriate and secure for citizens when emergency announcements call for citizens to stay indoors and turn off ventilation systems while at the same time, among other things, encouraging them to remain indoors? in many non-profit housing buildings, does not have the ability to control the ventilation system in the individual rise or apartment, with which the ventilation continues to run despite the emergency announcement and potential health-damaging smoke in the air around the building?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153435	Thank you for the question. In reply to the question, I can refer to the reply given by the Minister for Transport and Building in February of this year to the Transport and Building Committee's question No. 327. That is clear, among other things. of the answer: The need to introduce requirements for decentralized extinguishing of ventilation systems has previously been examined by an interministerial working group. The working group, which completed its work in 2009, consisted of participants from both the Danish Business and Construction Authority, the Danish Emergency Agency, the municipal tools as well as the construction and insurance companies' professional organisations, the Danish Brand and Security Technical Institute, the Danish Building Research Institute and other representatives from the construction industry. The answer goes on: the Working Group concluded that there is no safety need to ensure that the ventilation system of the building can be switched off in a decentralised manner. Thus, the Minister for Transport and Building considers that, on the basis of the present case, there is no basis for introducing requirements in the building regulations to enable ventilation systems to be switched off in a decentralised manner. I shall therefore refer to the reply of the Minister for Transport and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153556	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153557	Thank you for the answer, although I am not entirely satisfied. Well, I'm a little disappointed. Out here in the Vandrehallen at Christiansborg it is written on the wall by Rasmus Larsen: "Man's life gives the law fulfillment, and that is as true as it has been said. This case of ventilation in general housing in connection with disasters is very much about people. It could be people like Fredericia on Wednesday 3 February, where you have a big fire at the harbour, or it could be in Esbjerg a few months earlier, where the siren has sounded, where emergency announcements have been made, and where people are asked to go indoors and close doors and windows, as dangerous smoke develops in connection with the fire. This is about security, it's about confidence in preparedness, trust in emergency announcements and trust in authorities. This is a grotesque issue because citizens living in non-profit building have no option to turn off the automatic ventilation systems in a decentralised manner. This brings the dangerous smoke into the apartments, and the emergency announcements appear to be grotesque, meaningless and incomplete. As Minister for Defence, the Minister is responsible for the Emergency Management Authority's early warning system... it is used about 15 times a year... and also responsible for the building regulations. I would urge the Minister to act. We have to act. The passive attitude is unsustainable, and I consider it untenable simply to refer to an inter-ministerial working group set up in 2009. A lot has happened since.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153747	I believe you can have full confidence in the Danish preparedness. It should also be borne in mind that when a siren's warning is finally carried out, and there is, as Mr. Troels Ravn himself has mentioned, fortunately not so often then the main message is precisely: Go inside, close doors and windows and ventilation systems and search for more information. I think it is essential to hold on to that. What is the main message to citizens? It is: Seek more information to hear what it is you have to do and what it is that is going on. So often, depending on what an accident is, you will get statements about what to do about it. That cannot be answered in general, because it depends, of course, on what kind of accident we are talking about. It should also be borne in mind that if, at last, it is about the fact that it is highly harmful to health or pollution, then it will hardly be enough just to turn off the ventilation. You gotta get out of here. You have to be evacuated or gone by your own means. The matter of its own help may also be an important point in this debate. It is about the fact that when the alert sends out a warning, it is not because you do not have to think about and try to find solutions to how to get away from a given situation. That is why I perhaps also miss a message from Mr. Troels Ravn about what he thinks needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153926	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518153926-2	Now I would urge the Minister to go home and read his own magazine from the Emergency Board, which in fact tells in a large article about flames over Fredericia, where there miraculously was no human damage, either in connection with the fire or in connection with these grotesque and meaningless alert messages. It is good that the Minister asks me who is asking what I am thinking. I am thinking, of course, that the building regulations should ensure that ventilation systems can be switched off in a decentralised manner. It could be made relatively simple. This is pointless, and it's insecurity. More and more citizens are turning to us. When we act here in the Folketing, it is often on the basis of some citizens who have approached, and that is also the case here. This creates insecurity, and it's grotesque. We, as politicians, must assume responsibility, and I expect the Secretary of Defense to do so when we have emergency announcements which, as in these cases, appear completely grotesque, incomplete and meaningless. The citizens here are therefore invited to go in and close doors and windows and, at the same time, the automatic ventilation system continues. It's very simple to make this something decentralized. It just takes a change to the building regulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154056	I very much disagree with the fact that there is no cost to having a general requirement for all construction and all non-profit building that you should have the opportunity to turn off each ventilation plant in a decentralised manner. It is always the case when we discuss what requirements should be made, that we try to weigh costs also against what is actually an extra security that is achieved with regard to the expenditure that may be involved. And I think we should all deal with that. It is not the case that because you live for rent in a building, you do not have the opportunity to engage in a dialogue with your association or with your landlord if it is a private landlord • about what to do in that property if there is something you are very uncomfortable with. There may be a janitor with whom an agreement can be made, rather than, I understand that any conceivable and thought situation must be resolved by legislative action and solved by demands that will make all non-profit housing much more expensive than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154206	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154207	We may now reach the centre, at least at the heart, of the thinking of the Minister for Transport and Building and now also the Minister for Defence, namely that this is about the economy. I would just like to say there, without making specific offers, that this can be done very, very cheaply. The Secretary of Defense will probably be surprised if he investigates how cheap it can be to introduce that you can turn off these ventilation systems in a decentralised manner. But this is obviously for the two ministers about economics, and I just ask: what amount are we talking about when this is also about security when it comes to creating some conditions where human health should not be at stake? Is the economy really governing? Is it not more important that people in their non-profit housing should have security and security also in the emergency announcements issued by the authorities? I mean, the Secretary of Defense is the chief man responsible for this area and ends up referring to the barren economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154321	But I am sure that I have a balance between the various considerations one takes into account when it comes to making such demands, which are very close to what the previous government has had, in relation to the fact that every demand must also make sense, both economically and in relation to what is actually achieved. But take an ordinary home owner who has a ventilation system. It is also up to the individual in such cases that you get off the ventilation system. That is why my message is that because you live in a non-profit-making home, it is not forbidden to have a dialogue with the association you live in, whether it is something you have to deal with, whether it is something you want to find a solution to. I don't agree with Mr. Knox. Troels Ravn in that every conceivable problem has to be solved by legislation, by imposing demands on the authorities, which will mean that you will then suddenly have high costs in the general housing associations • unless, of course, Mr. Troels Ravn at the same time will have a view that it has to be paid by the state to get you changed out in every housing association. The latter, by the way, would not surprise me either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154431	Thank you very much, sir. Troels Ravn and the Secretary of Defense for questions and answers. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of It is to the Minister for the Environment and Food, and the question has been asked by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154449	Thank you. Will the Minister stop all dredging in the Øresund so that the area is protected completely for activities that damage the seabed, plants and animals, thereby preserving and promoting the unique biodiversity of the Øresund, increasing the opportunities for commercial fishing with gentle methods and increasing the growth of tourism?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154510	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the question. On 9 May 2016, I informed the Committee on the Environment and Food that I have decided that it should continue to be possible to import raw materials into the Øresund and that I do not find the basis for introducing further restrictions now than those implemented in 2015. The reason for my decision is that the metropolitan area needs raw materials and there are significant raw materials resources in Øresund. GEUS, DCE, DTU Aqua and Orbicon A/S carried out a number of studies in Øresund in 2014 and 2015. Based on these studies, the Ministry of the Environment and Food is of the opinion that the extraction of raw materials in the area is environmentally sound. It is true that for some time there has been an inappropriate extraction of raw materials in Øresund. However, steps have already been taken to ensure that this does not happen again. In 2015, the Danish Nature Agency introduced increased supervision of the recovery of raw materials companies. In addition, the rules on mining and quarrying were tightened in 2015, including: As a result of the criticism in relation to the Øresund, which exceeded the permitted quantities. The austerity measures carried out include: the introduction of annual ceilings for a number of mining areas, including in Øresund. In Denmark we need all the raw materials we have at our disposal, and it is a unanimous Parliament that is behind the raw materials law. We need sand and gravel for homes and traffic facilities, and in order to meet our overall needs for raw materials, we need both to recover on land and at sea. Wherever we are recovering raw materials, this must be done with regard to the environment, and therefore it is also the case that before recovery permits can be granted to new areas or new quantities, applicants must carry out environmental studies. The requirements for environmental studies were also developed and clarified in 2015 in order to ensure that the consequences, inter alia: in relation to the environment and fisheries, an assessment of the intended extraction of raw materials has been made before deciding whether authorisation may be granted. I therefore see no reason to change the current rules on the extraction of raw materials in the Sound.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154718	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154719	Thank you. I have also had a question to the previous Minister and the Minister before that, namely the Socialist Minister, so I have of course heard the arguments before. In relation to the history of the project, it was also mentioned by the Minister that the Danish Nature Agency started a major environmental study in Øresund in August 2014 to look at the consequences of the dredging. It was published here at the beginning of 2016, and it shows that recovery has adversely affected the marine environment in the Sound in several respects. The minister says that the metropolitan area needs sand and gravel etc., and that is also true, but if you follow the fireman's principle of saving the most valuable first, you have to say that the Øresund is something very special and valuable. There may be someone older than me who remembers the Øresund as bluresund, but a lot has happened since then, among other things. This is why I would like to ask the Minister a question about the ban on trawling. If, for example, the arguments are: is economical, that is to say in relation to retrieving sand and gravel elsewhere, so we can say when we look at the costs that are estimated at approx. 10 million kr. Every year, and when we look at the construction projects that are that it is on a smaller scale. And we have heard a call from biologists, from fishermen and from a number of organisations, as the minister has also received letters from the minister saying that you are very, very concerned about the Øresund, because it is so special an area with a high degree of biodiversity. Why, then, is it that the raw materials that we need cannot be taken anywhere but in the waters which are so valuable to us and which, of course, also have a major impact on both inshore fishing and tourism? Because having such valuable waters so close to a capital is something very special.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518154919	Thank you for the question and thank you for the floor, President. I now believe that tourism will not be significantly influenced by the fact that we are making extraction of raw materials in Øresund. On the second aspect of transport and economics, if you choose to use the amount of raw materials needed to develop the capital, taken from elsewhere, then there will be an environmental impact from, for example, an environmental impact. transport, and there could be noise pollution. There would be areas, for example. the Zealand catchment area providing raw materials which would be affected by increased truck transport. So there will always be challenges about this. When you make extraction of raw materials at sea, in this case in the Øresund, you can bring in the quantity of raw materials, and thus you can ensure that it does not burden our transport network elsewhere. In fact, I believe that the fisheries sector has been taken into account in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155013	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155014	Just the last thing I don't think the inshore fishermen will agree with. Among other things: Søren Jacobsen says it is worrying because it shows that it takes several generations to re-establish the marine environment after dredging. It is a short-term harvest that brings a rapid economic gain. But if we are talking about economics, I would say that a study has been carried out from Aarhus University that says that every time visibility is increased by 1 m, the house value increases by 3 per cent. So I guess you should also take all the elements into account if you're going to count on the economic bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155100	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the question. Well, there is no doubt that one has to see it in a context of total pressure, also financially. In fact, I would like to overlook the position of fishermen in writing to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, insofar as I remember, and now the rapporteur must wait for the written transmission. At least from parts of the fishing industry there have been positive indications that raw material recovery can continue. Of course, there are also fisheries interests that are concerned about this because there are some special conditions in relation to the Øresund. But I believe that the overall assessment we have had, among other things. With the studies that have been carried out, it is clear that raw materials can be extracted while also protecting the marine environment and also protecting fisheries interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155147	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155148	It is often the case that there are different interests in the fisheries sector, but Søren Jacobsen, Vice-President of the Association for Gentle Coastal Fishing, says that it can help threaten the fishing activities locally: as I read, the report confirms what we fishermen have always said. The ocean floor becomes deeper, the mussels disappear, and they remove the livelihoods of the fish. But we can't move the valuable marine environment that we have somewhere else. Because what we have in the Øresund is unique.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155239	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the question. Well, it's clear that there's a valuable nature in the Øresund. There are also valuable fisheries interests. And that's why you have to do your countboard when you make a decision about it here, because there are both social considerations and some natural considerations. And with the advice given to the Ministry of the Environment and Food, among other things. In the light of the studies mentioned and also taking into account the fact that the capital must also be able to develop positively on the basis of increased extraction of raw materials, it is my and the government's assessment that there must continue to be extraction of raw materials in Øresund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155315	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 7 with the same team
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155323	It is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen who is reading her question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155324	Thank you, President. Will the government contact the Swedish Government, which already bans mining in the Øresund, with a view to a joint agreement to make Øresund a protected area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155337	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the question. As I have just mentioned in the previous reply, on 9 May 2016, I informed the Committee on the Environment and Food that I have decided that there should continue to be the possibility of importing raw materials into the Øresund and that I do not find the basis for introducing further restrictions now than those implemented in 2015. I think it is important that there is still scope for mining in the Øresund, and I believe that we have found a good balance between use and protection. The Øresund serves many purposes at once. Healthy is a major means of traffic for large ships, there is room for commercial and recreational fishing, there are good opportunities for leisure activities such as sailing, and we also see good fish stocks. In addition, since 1932 there has been a ban on fishing with bottom-scraping gear. I do not think there is any need for further protection of the Øresund, which is why I see no reason to take the initiative for a joint agreement with Sweden. I have asked the Danish Nature Agency to contact the Swedish authorities to inform them of my decision that there should continue to be the possibility of importing raw materials into the Øresund, taking into account the applicable environmental rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155445	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155445-2	Thank you. If anyone should wonder why I am asking questions about something the Minister has given the committee an answer to, it is because I have asked these questions a month ago and it has been moved for various reasons. But that is why I think it is good to have a reply from the Minister anyway. I would like to know whether the Minister has had a discussion with his Swedish colleagues prior to this or whether it has simply been sent as a one-way message to the Minister's Swedish colleagues?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155525	Thank you for that, President. I have an ongoing dialogue with my Swedish colleague, who has now unfortunately been replaced by the Environment Party, and now I am starting a new dialogue with the new Swedish minister. It is, of course, about fisheries interests, nature considerations in general, and it may apply to the Øresund, it may apply to Kattegat, where we have different interests; it applies to the whole Baltic Sea. In this particular case, it is a decision I have taken following the advice I have asked for, and there has been no dialogue on it with the Swedish Minister, so in that sense it will be a one-way communication.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155607	Thank you. In the economic analysis, which I am sure the Minister has also used here, has a broad socio-economic assessment been made, both in terms of translating environmental values into economics, fishing values, values that may be in relation to tourism, and in relation to the possible future recovery of Øresund? Is it a broad socio-economic analysis that underlies this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155646	Thank you, President, and thank you for the question. Yes, an analysis has been carried out of the economic impact both with a view to fisheries, the recovery of raw materials and so on. So there is. That is also what I replied to the questioner in the previous round, namely the question of raising the countboard. There are some considerations that the capital can develop and that there must be extraction of raw materials that honours the requirements but, of course, there is also a relationship in relation to fishing, natural considerations, habitat obligations and tourism.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155719	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155720	Again, I believe that if you look at the economy in it, approx. 10 million kr. Every year, you can see how large construction projects are in the metropolitan area, and that is quite a different economic scale. 10 million kr. may sound like a lot, but this is huge billion-dollar projects. Compared to CO2 emissions, as I mentioned earlier, you can make reductions elsewhere, so you make a sort of trade with it in exchange for other things. You can't switch this particular natural area out with somewhere else, so that's really my comment on it. I'm gonna stop here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155808	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your comment. I understand that the questioner is considering environmental issues, and it is quite right that the state of the environment in the Øresund should not just be able to be moved in such a way and that this is also an important area, which is why we, among other things, are here. has had the ban on scratches since 1932. That is also why, when carrying out such an assessment of the extraction of raw materials, one has an environmental assessment in connection with it, and it is a relatively small and limited area where one is going to make the extraction of raw materials as it is today. Therefore, it is my opinion that we take account of both environmental considerations and economic considerations in relation to this and take into account that fishing is not burdened by the extraction of raw materials which is to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155854	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for today's work. We shall now move on to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155924	Sir. Rasmus Prehn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155926	Thank you very much, President, and I should like to read out the question: what is the Minister's position that 7 000 children will smoke below the poverty line as a result of the government's ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518155937	Thank you for the question. The government does not recognise the former government's border on economic poverty, and that is why we have abolished it. It is too narrow and it is too square to look at whether the income is above or below a certain technically defined level. The inventory does not capture the dynamism and mobility of the labour market that the government creates with its overall policy. Instead, the government wants to ensure that more people get to work so that they are able to support themselves and their family, and that is the whole point of the integration benefit and the cash benefits ceiling. The best thing we can do for children is to get parents away from public support and in employment and self-sufficiency. That is precisely why the government, among other things, is doing so. The ceiling on cash benefits has ensured that there is now a significant economic incentive to enter employment. At the same time, I believe that the amounts available as a cash benefit recipient after the government has introduced a ceiling on cash benefits are quite reasonable. A typical single parent with three children will receive just over DKK 281,000 with the new cash aid ceiling. In the case of public services before tax, this is equivalent to approx. 12,800 kroner when taxes and rents are paid. Similarly, a typical couple with three children will receive approx. 406,000 kr. The average annual rate of increase is approximately 2.5% per year, which is equivalent to the average monthly rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual average rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase When you have that amount of money at your disposal, it does not make sense to talk about poverty. Then the government's cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule are also very much about getting something done about the far too many non-western immigrants and descendants who are stuck in the cash assistance system. When the government stepped in, it took over a cash assistance system where almost one out of every three on cash benefits had a non-western background, and among married couples on cash benefits it was all 84 per cent that had a non-western background. It is not least a picture of poor integration when two out of three of the groups we are talking about in these calculations are either immigrants or descendants from non-western countries, i.e. two thirds of the 11,800. At the same time, the influx of refugees has increased so significantly since 2014 and employment among new entrants is low. Therefore, it is imperative that more people support themselves and their children as long as they are in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160228	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160229	In my entire upbringing, I have been used to some of the things we were proud of in Denmark being the statement that a society's wealth is measured by how it treats its weakest, and I think that children living in poverty who have not themselves suffered and share in their growing up in a poor family, but who have to live under those conditions, are some of the weakest, which we should help. That is why it was also a very great debate before the parliamentary elections, what would happen to our children, the weakest children, the poorest children, and one of the criticisms made of Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's and the Left's then proposal for a modern cash aid ceiling was that it would have the consequence that there would be many children who would end up in poverty, according to the poverty limit that the previous government had. That's when it was called from both Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, but also Mr. Peter Christensen that it was not true and that the policy put forward by the Left would not mean that more children would fall below the poverty line. Actually, sir. Peter Christensen quoted as saying that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has struck two thick lines under the fact that there should be no more poor and that we will not have any more poor under the government's poverty line. Yet in a year, as many as 7,000 children have managed to get below this limit. What does that mean? Well, that means it's gonna be hard for these families to offer the kids the same opportunities that their comrades have and be part of the same community as their comrades. When the others are going to camp school or they are going to scout camp or they are going to start football, parents must say no, and it will also be difficult to prepare a healthy and nutritious meal with the money available, and that is why the limits are made. It's because if you're below that limit, it's hard to make it stick together, and then you're poor. And there it is, I wonder, that the government is pursuing a policy that means more poor, more children below this limit, i.e. when, before the elections, the Danes were even promised with two thick lines under the line that there would be no more. What is the Minister's answer to that? For we have heard a lot of other things, but what is the Minister's response to the promise made before the elections that there would be no more, and in one year there have now been 7 000 more?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160459	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160500	Of course, we stand by the answer we have given. A question has been asked and an answer has been given which gives the answer to a completely static situation. But the government's policy has to be seen in a context. We are pursuing a policy aimed at creating much more social mobility for those who are outside the labour market. As we can see from the figures, this is a huge integration problem. There is an over-representation of more than ten times for married couples on cash benefits, and it is imperative to do something. We have created a ceiling on cash benefits, which is built up in such a way that if you, for example, As a single person with three children may work just 9 hours a week, one has made enough money to be completely freed from it all, and one may have gained a prize of DKK 4,600. a month. So what we have done is that we have made a policy that is aiming to get people into the working community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160601	The questioner, 1⁄2 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160602	I do not think we can disagree here about the fact that it is much better to get to work and that it is much better with social mobility that it is positive, and it will also help these children. But if this doesn't happen and these kids are going to grow up in poverty, is it the attitude of the government that it creates jobs and that it creates better opportunities, that these children should be excluded from the social communities of which their comrades are part, so that they can't go to football, that they can't go to scouts, that they can't be part of the communities of which all the others are part? Will it be a happier society for those children to experience it in their childhood?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160637	No, and here I think we agree. After all, it is absolutely essential that these people, these families, be taken out of parallel societies and that they be brought into the communities of which the rest of us are part, into working communities. That is why we want to solve these challenges, and that is why we are working with the social partners, making two-part agreements with the municipalities and tripartite agreements on integration with the social partners. We have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160718	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160719	It is usually said that children do not choose their parents themselves. You can't choose for yourself whether you want to grow up in a rich family or in a poor family. But there are now 7 000 more children growing up in poverty because the government is pursuing this policy. Does the Minister think, and does the government think, that it brings something happy with them, that these children should grow up under these conditions, where there will be less access to healthy food, where there will be less access to the social community, where you cannot go to scouts like the others, and where you cannot go to football? Does the Minister consider that the concrete consequence for these 7 000 more children is a happy situation for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160802	The question presupposes that there should be no effects of all the other elements of government policy and that there should also be no dynamic effects of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. But, of course, there is, and that is why I am convinced that we will see a dynamic. Because we have deliberately built up the ceiling on cash aid in such a way that we simply have a tiny amount of work to do, for example. 8 hours or 9 hours a week, can become part of the working community, and one is completely freed from all effects of the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule. One has the opportunity to gain a foothold and the opportunity to give one's children a life based on, for example, the fact that one's child is a child. is part of the working community in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160850	Thank you for that and that concludes the question. We move on to Question 9, which is addressed to the Minister for Employment by Mrs Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160906	Thank you. Will the Minister explain the reasonableness and the view that figures from the Minister for Employment show that 7 000 children are affected by poverty as a result of the ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518160923	Thank you for the question. As I said, the government does not recognise the poverty limit of the previous government because it is too narrow to look at whether the income limit is above or below a certain technically defined limit. With the ceiling on cash benefits, a typical single parent with three children will receive just over DKK 281,000. per year in pre-tax public services. This corresponds to a monthly average of approx. 12,800 kroner when taxes and rents are paid. The cash benefits couple with three children will be able to receive approx. 406,000 kr. in total public benefits or the amount of available benefits of approx. 15,000 kroner. a month. When you have amounts of money at your disposal, it does not make sense to talk about poverty, and I actually think that these are quite reasonable amounts of money available. In the government, we are concerned that more people are going to work so that they are able to support themselves and their families. This is also why the government has introduced, among other things: the integration allowance and the ceiling on cash benefits. The best thing we can do for children of cash benefit recipients is to get mother and father into employment to some extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161040	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161042	Thank you. As you can see, my question, as we say in the parliamentary language, has been reprinted into being put to the Minister for Employment. I would have liked to put it to the Minister for Children and Education. After all, when families with children are put on the street or forced to move, children often have to move to school. And we know that growing up in poverty makes it harder to be a child and have a good child life. It mustn't be fun for the other kids in class who have to say goodbye to a classmate. I would have liked to ask the Minister for Children and Education that, but according to the government, this is not a question for the minister who otherwise has the children under his resort area. Less than a year ago, namely in June 2015, it has been mentioned by the Left's finance rapporteur, Peter Christensen, that Lars Løkke has put two points on the fact that we are not going to pursue a policy that brings children under the government's poverty line. That was the poverty line of the previous government. When the rest of us then pointed out that the policy of the Left would bring children into poverty, we were accused of speaking against better knowledge because, as was said, Lars Løkke has stated that the Left is not going to create a cash aid ceiling that brings children below the government's poverty line. ▪ Now it is so clear in a reply from the Minister for Employment that the government's cash aid ceiling will send 7,000 children below the very same poverty limit. So I guess there aren't so many options left: some voters and precisely 7,000 children have been cheated, is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161244	It is not fair that there are so many families on cash benefits and that there are so many children in Denmark who have parents who are outside the labour market while they have a working capacity. It is not fair to have the extreme over-representation of non-western immigrants on cash aid, with the degrees of over-representation I mentioned earlier. That is why it is very important for the government to change this picture, and that is why we take it very seriously, and we should not be judged or judged on a single element in a whole chain of political decisions which include integration benefits, cash aid ceilings, 225-hour rule, social partners integration agreement, two-party agreement with the municipalities, to ensure that these people get a foothold in the working community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161343	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161344	Thank you. I have to repeat my question: a question which the previous one also asks, Mr President. Rasmus Prehn, spoke up. It was clearly stated before the elections: Lars Løkke Rasmussen has stated that the Left will not create a ceiling for helping children below the government's poverty limit. If no electorate has been cheated, there is, of course, another option, and that is that the Left is trying with the story that is called something like: we promised that no children would be brought below the poverty line, but now we have removed the official poverty line, so there are no poor children. If that is the argument one has, that is to say that as a child one made a bet in the schoolyard and lost it, but then afterwards said: that does not apply because I was standing with my fingers crossed behind my back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161453	[Sound Outfall]... poor children in Denmark, and the government will do everything in its power to deal with the conditions for them in such a way that they are given the opportunity for proper schooling, have the opportunity to gain a foothold to become part of the working community. This requires that their parents, to the extent possible, have a working capacity and are therefore part of the working community, so that we can create a greater dynamic both for immigrant families and for other Danish families. It is a heavy, comprehensive agenda that we are working on throughout the government, and my point is that we should not be judged on a single static element. And when we look at the poverty line, we need to be aware that poverty is a more complex concept than this isolated concept of economic income.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161546	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161547	After all, I am glad that they say that they will do something to bring children out of poverty. However, on the other hand, I do not understand how this is in line with the policy being pursued, and I do not understand that the answer on which the questions are based today is only given by the Minister's Ministry on 11 May 2016 when it is submitted on 3 November 2015 and when you have 4 weeks for an answer. I do not understand why, if it were so important in the law that has been introduced, the calculations have not been made. Why is it only when our financial rapporteur asks the question that the calculations are made and why are they so late?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161635-2	[Sound emission]... and have regretted the very late reply to the questioner and the Speaker of the Danish Parliament. This is based on the fact that several ministries have had to develop new methods of analysis and calculation models in order to answer the question. All the questions that have been asked have been answered in the legislative process, but one, unfortunately, very late. But that does not change the fact that we acknowledge our intentions, that we adhere to our policy, and that I am convinced that the best thing we can do for the children we are talking about here is that their parents are prized and supported in gaining the prize we put before them by becoming part of the working community, even with a very small number of hours. This will significantly change the situation of children and make their opportunities to become part of a school community, social community and working community much larger.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161727	The question is closed. We thank the questioner and thank the Minister. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161735	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518161805	The motion for a resolution, which we are about to discuss now, concerns the composition and importance of the Refugee Board for Danish foreign policy. Let me begin by mentioning the composition. The Refugee Board today consists of a judge, a lawyer nominated by the Lawyer Council, a member nominated by the Danish Refugee Council, a member from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a member from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. The motion for a resolution proposes that in future the Refugee Board should be composed only of members appointed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Members of the Lawyers' Council and Danish Refugee Aid should therefore not be suspended in the future. As the motion for a resolution does not specifically deal with the role of judges in the Refugee Boards of the future, I take the view that the authors of the motion do not also propose that the judges should no longer be represented in the Chamber, but I very much hope that the authors of the motion will try to clarify when we get this far. I therefore assume that the motion for a resolution must be understood as meaning that the Refugee Board will henceforth consist of three members, that is, a judge, an official from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and an employee from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. But I very much hope that there will be answers to that question. As you know, the Refugee Board is today an independent judicial body. Decisions of the Board are final, which means that they cannot be brought before other authorities or the courts. For the government, it is crucial that the Refugee Board not only functions independently but also appears independently. In this context, of course, the composition of the name is relevant. It is no secret that since 2013, when the name was extended by 1 member from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and 1 member nominated by Danish Refugee Aid, the Left has questioned whether the Refugee Board has the right composition. After the government has been given to the Left, the government has made several changes in the area of foreigners, which is why, of course, we are also constantly considering the need for further changes in the area of foreigners. We will therefore present this autumn a concrete proposal for changes to the composition of the Refugee Board. In this context, I would like to stress the need to ensure the independence and the status of the Refugee Board as a judicial body. This naturally brings me to the second part of the resolution, namely the proposal to limit the influence of the Refugee Board on asylum policy. According to the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution would like to see a form of political control of the practice of the Refugee Board in the specific asylum cases, for example. by the Folketing approving certain decisions of the Board. The government can't support that. The Refugee Board, like all other public authorities, shall take decisions in accordance with applicable legislation. In other words, it is not up to the Refugee Board to decide how the Danish asylum policy should be organised, either today or in the future. Danish asylum policy is laid down in the Folketing, and that must be the case. There is currently an arm's length principle in relation to the foreign authorities, including the Refugee Board, and in relation to the treatment of the specific cases of aliens. And it is important for the government to stick to this principle. It is therefore important to ensure that the Refugee Board, as a final appeal body in asylum cases, is also in future an independent and court-like body, an independent body which, of course, complies with and manages the rules adopted by the Folketing. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution as a whole, but I am, of course, very much looking forward to the further consideration of it and also to the discussion today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518162235	Thank you for that, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518162240	Thank you. I would just like to sign that the Minister says that the government intends to change the way in which the Refugee Board is composed when it comes at a later stage. We look forward to discussing this with the government. I can also say that what the motion for a resolution is about is that Danish Refugee Aid should no longer have the opportunity to appoint a representative to sit in the Chamber, as is the case with the Council of Lawyers. That's kind of it. And with regard to the number of Members sitting there, it will be up to a political debate afterwards. But I'd like to ask about the Lawyers' Council. How does the Minister view the appointment of a representative by the Council of Lawyers to the Refugee Board? Because they have stated on several occasions that they are defending the interests of refugees, and that is fair enough; that is something we must say, and we must also work for it and take it as our case, but it is perhaps so little unwise that we are sitting on a board which helps to decide whether asylum seekers should then have refugee status.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518162333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518162335	What I can say is absolutely crucial to me and to the government is precisely that the Refugee Board is independent and that it is a court-like body. That must be what matters. On the basis of that principle, as I mentioned in my speech, we will come up with a proposal for the composition in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518162359	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next speaker. It's sir. Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518162418	Thank you. Social democracy cannot support the proposal. The Refugee Board plays an important role in Danish asylum policy. We therefore find it problematic that over the past many years there has been an eternal political discussion of the composition of the name and that the work and decisions of the name are regularly called into question. It creates uncertainty and distrust, and we need the opposite. There is a need for broad political clarification so that peace and continuity can be established about the composition and role of the name and therefore also in Danish asylum policy. The rejection of this resolution by the Social Democrats should not therefore be seen as a general refusal to discuss the composition and role of the Refugee Board. We are very happy to take part in such discussions, but we want this to be done on a slightly better basis. In other words, has it had consequences for the number of changes when Danish Refugee Aid has appointed members of the Council? We do not believe that clear evidence can be provided. We have tried to dig a little bit in the numbers, and we certainly cannot argue for that. What role do the appointed members of the Lawyer's Board play in the matter? There is a clear disagreement here. The proposal's observations claim that they act as an interest organisation in the name of the name, while the letter we have received from the Council of Lawyers asserts the opposite. Why do we see relatively high conversion rates for some years, for example? 34 per cent in 2008, while in other years, such as: In 2014, only 14 per cent were converted.? What are the considerations behind the changes in practice in the Refugee Board, such as: when the mention in October 2012 decided to award Christian convertites from e.g. Afghanistan and Iran asylum, and would it be right to understand such changes of practice as political interference, as it is insinuated in the comments of the proposal? How do we ensure the best possible assessment in the many cases where the decision must be based on an assessment of the applicant's credibility, both in the assessments of the Foreign Affairs Agency and the Refugee Board? All this is what the Social Democratic Party wants to discuss in depth before we get to grips with our position both on the composition of the Council and on the other legislation which is the basis of the work of the Council. We are therefore pleased that the government can now tell us that they will present a proposal in the autumn, and we would like to ask the government, before that proposal is presented, to open political discussions on the matter. With the hope of a broad and long-lasting agreement that can bring peace and continuity to the work of the Refugee Board, I hope for a good debate today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518162641	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518162645	So, I do not think there can be any doubt, when you look at the composition of the Refugee Board, that Danish Refugee Aid is certainly an interest organisation which has some particular interests. It dared be clear to everyone. I recognise the willingness of the Social Democratic Party to enter this debate, but I would like to ask: does the rapporteur not consider Danish refugee aid to be an interest organisation and therefore not an independent body capable of judging these cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518162720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518162721	Thank you. What I said in my rapporteur's speech was that there was a discrepancy between what the proposers have described about the role of the Lawyer Council in the Refugee Board and the letter we have received from the Lawyer Council. I just said this to support the fact that we believe that there is a need for a better basis for decision-making before we take such decisions. Is Danish Refugee Aid an interest organisation? Yeah. But I think that it is per year. Automatically, then disqualify them to sit on the Refugee Board? No, not necessarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518162758	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518162800	So now you can ask yourself whether the fact that the Council of Lawyers sends a letter stating that they are impartial is a particularly good proof that they are. After all, it must be based on an objective assessment, which may not be exactly the task of the Lawyers' Council. I would also like to say that I really think that when we have courts in Denmark, we are based on the principle that courts are impartial, and that is to say that there are no interest organisations that make their influence felt in judgments. I think that is a fair and noble principle, which we must uphold, including with regard to the decisions of the Refugee Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518162839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518162840	I agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that it is not the Council of Lawyers who should define whether they play an independent role in the Refugee Board. This is part of an overall political discussion. I simply note that what they write in their letter is not in line with what the authors have said. As far as Danish Refugee Aid is concerned, for more than 30 years they have played a major role in Danish asylum policy, both in the distribution of refugees and in the integration work, and I actually believe that they have a right of consultation when it comes to apparently groundless applications. Then they've gone in and out of the Refugee Board. We are very happy to take part in a discussion on the role of Danish Refugee Aid in this regard. We do not think it is a problem that they should be consulted on apparently unfounded applications. We believe that it was a problem that they were responsible for the location of refugees in the municipalities until 1999, I think it was. Nor will we refuse to take part in a discussion on whether or not to sit on the Refugee Board. We just believe that this should be done on a better basis of decision-making. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we do not believe that it is possible to argue that several decisions of the Foreign Affairs Council have been overturned during the period when Danish Refugee Aid has been on the Refugee Board, and that is why we find it difficult to argue objectively that their position in the name should in itself mean a change in Danish asylum policy. After all, it must be based on some degree of objectivity before we make such decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163019	The next question is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163021	Thank you. I'd like to sign for the fact that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and the Social Democrats say in this way that they are willing to discuss the composition of the jury that is also what the minister was talking about. But I would like to ask: do the Socialists not think that there is something wrong, in principle, in the fact that an organisation, Danish Refugee Aid, which clearly and clearly works for the interests of refugees, and this is something that we must help to appoint people to the board that has to sit and make decisions in this area? And similar in relation to the Lawyers' Council, which is now repeatedly in the media, in consultation answers, etc. has indicated that one or the other tightening against refugees weakens their legal certainty. It is also okay to think so, but is it not in principle wrong for them to sit on a board which helps to decide whether the refugees in question should then be allowed to be in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163106	Now it was under Helle Thorning-Schmidt's government that Danish Refugee Aid was again placed in the Refugee Board, so no, we have no fundamental objection to them being on the Refugee Board. With that I have not said that we will necessarily support the fact that they have a seat in it at all times. One of the things that will mean something to us is that the composition of the Refugee Board and the role of the Refugee Board in Danish asylum policy are sustainable, that continuity can be created about the work of the Council and that the decisions underlying any changes are objectively supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163142	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163143	Then I would like to ask about the competences of the Refugee Board today. The Refugee Board makes decisions on specific asylum cases, but the Refugee Board can also change Danish asylum policy. You have previously decided that it should be easier for people from Syria to have asylum in Denmark, and you may think that is right or wrong, but we in the Danish People's Party believe that it should be a political decision, so it is like a democratic majority making that decision. Do the Socialists believe that the Refugee Board should continue to have the competences they currently have, or do the Socialists believe that there is a need to discuss this if it is to be decided that people from a particular country should have easier access to asylum in Denmark, so should also get past a minister or a committee that can then blue stamp or reject that decision, so that it is under democratic and political control?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163231	We are not in favour of moving cases to the Parliamentary Chamber, no. We are in favour of the adoption of legislation here in the Parliamentary Assembly and of the authorities implementing that legislation, and we are in favour of the fact that the Refugee Board is the last instance, that none of the Refugee Boards should turn their thumbs up or down to the decisions taken by the Refugee Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163256	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163308	Thank you. Since the Refugee Board was enlarged in 2013, the Left has just questioned the current composition of the Refugee Board. At that time the name was extended by 1 member nominated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and 1 member nominated by Danish Refugee Aid, and the amendment proposed by the Danish People's Party with this resolution is partially withdrawn. The Danish People's Party therefore proposes that Danish Refugee Aid and the Lawyer's Council should lose its right to suspend members of the Refugee Board in the future. In future, only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing will be able to appoint members of the Board. As I began my speech by saying, the Left far along the way has the same concerns about the composition of the Refugee Board as the proposers here have. That is why I am pleased to note that the government is aware of the problem, and that is why, of course, I am also looking forward to the government making a concrete proposal in the autumn to change the composition of the Refugee Board. According to the proposal, the Danish People's Party will also go a step further and it is proposed that a certain form of political control of the work of the Council should be introduced. We in the Left cannot in any way support that. Whatever the composition, and we can discuss it, especially at a later stage, the Refugee Board must always be an independent and judicial body, even in the future. The government is working towards a thoroughly prepared composition of the Refugee Board, which still has to work independently. That work is eagerly awaited by the Left, which is why we cannot support the current proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163453	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163457	Thank you. There was a discussion with the Social Democrat rapporteur, which I thought was a little exciting, because there are two things in it. If we now maintain that the Refugee Board is a court-like authority, then I would say that it is problematic that Danish Refugee Aid is involved. The second point is that the Refugee Board cannot, as a court-like authority, define refugee policy. If we now maintain that fundamental distinction, I would say that it is perfectly obvious that it is the Folketing and only the Folketing that defines Danish refugee policy and also which refugees we should receive and that it can never be the Refugee Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163551	The rapporteur will certainly not be surprised to hear that we in the Left have just questioned the role of Danish Refugee Aid in the name. And to put it bluntly, this is one of the many cases where the Danish People's Party, with all due respect, has taken one of the Left's proposals, screwed it a little and then thrown it back to us. That is, of course, very good, because then we will have time to go here in Parliament. In relation to the political angle, our ordinary courts are also in a situation where the Folketing does not go in and adjust the individual judgments. The policy is laid out in the Folketing, and the exercise itself is carried out by an authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163635	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163637	Well, that's fine. The rapporteur almost makes it sound as if we have not spoken critically about Danish refugee aid. In addition, I would say that the opposite may well be the truth... just this comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163658	Thank you. That's by no means what I'm saying. I can also turn the question around and say that we have just spoken critically, just as the Danish People's Party has, but this is a bit of a copy of a Left proposal, which has then got a little twist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163713	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163722	Thank you. The Enhedslisten cannot support the Danish People's Party's proposal. It is our clear view that both Danish Refugee Aid and the Lawyer's Council contribute with great knowledge of the refugee situation in the Refugee Board, and that both sides thereby help to qualify the decisions of the Refugee Board. If the Refugee Board were to be completely abolished, so that only the board took decisions on asylum cases, we would be left with a huge legal problem, because in that case there would be no form of redress. After all, the Refugee Board is now fulfilling the role of a so-called independent judicial body in which the decision taken by the Foreign Affairs Board can be tested. There is certainly no need for less legal certainty. In addition, the Danish People's Party proposes that the decisions of the Refugee Board should be approved by e.g. The Committee on Integration, if they are of a more fundamental nature. I do not really understand that proposal, because the Refugee Board is, of course, based on Danish law when they make their decisions, and if you disagree with the decisions taken, you must therefore work to change the law. We cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163841	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And the next in line is mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518163852	The Danish People's Party has raised a discussion on the composition of the Refugee Board, and I understand that this is a discussion going on in several places, since both the Minister and the Left rapporteur, Mr. Marcus Knuth also revealed that they are working on the same case. So I don't suppose that matter is ahead of its solution in this calendar year... I'll guess so. We look at the proposal from the Danish People's Party in a positive way, not because we have nothing good to say about the Danish Refugee Aid, because we do; we have plenty of good to say about the efforts they have made for refugees over the years, and thank you for that, but because we actually share the desire to depoliticise, I think, is the term used, the Refugee Board. In fact, it is also more about what is paragraph 2 of the proposal, which, on the other hand, I have a little more doubts about, in relation to where the government stands, namely the question of restricting its influence on asylum policy in Denmark. And here we would certainly like to go a little deeper into it and ask a few questions about what it is like in other north-west European countries, in terms of how one can decide whether or not certain groups of people can have special privileged access, in terms of government and independence. We think this is a very relevant discussion to get started. And if you cannot get a majority in favour of the proposal, you would have a little extra influence on those who vote in favour, and I think that is a very clever trick to have with you, it could be that you could make a report among the parties that agree that something needs to be done, and it could be that if we are now a little united, we can influence what the government is bringing in right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164054	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next speaker in line is Mr. René Gade as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164102	In the alternative, we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. There are several reasons for this, and I believe that many of them have already been mentioned. But one of the most important things for us is to look at whether it is really a problem that some people are dealing with the refugee case. Quite frankly, I think it is essential for some people to take care of the refugees' case, and we have here a board which must, of course, try objectively to see whether what is decided in the Foreign Affairs Council is fair and reasonable. That is often the case, and the times when there is no doubt about it or when there are doubts about it, and when there are some who want to sow doubts about it, it comes to the mention. And that there are some professional competences in the board which also represents civil society, we think that in every way we are helping to legitimise and depoliticise the name. So instead of talking about making sure that there are some people who actually do not, we have to make sure that I was about to turn it wrong, because that is actually the opposite of what is being talked about here, so that we should be sure that there is not a lot of disagreement there, and it may be that I have misunderstood how the proposal is actually to be understood, but that is how I hear it, so that we should be sure that the mention does not allow us to talk about that later, but we are at least very disagreed about that in the alternative. We think it should be ensured that there are some who verify it and really see if there could be things in the Foreign Affairs Authority's assessment that are wrong. And then we should not favour anyone, but it is at least essential that refugees are given a chance in that they are refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164247	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164249	So now it is above the entrance to the Parliamentary Chamber that land must be built by law. This means that it is the impartiality of the law that applies. This also means that the authorities involved in an assessment by the Refugee Board are impartial because the Refugee Board is of a judicial nature. Then I'll just ask you whether it's appropriate. I do not think that this is the case elsewhere, i.e. that a private interest organisation is part of independent So, are you judging by law, or judging by some special interests of Danish Refugee Aid? This question could be asked, and that is what this proposal has to do with problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164337	In the eyes of the alternative, it is essential to say that we do not have any preferences as to who is to represent civil society on this board. We believe, in general terms, that what the motion for a resolution calls for, namely that there should be no representation of these civil organisations, we reject it. We think it's good for the mention. On the other hand, I would like to say about Danish Refugee Aid that it may well be that it is an interest organisation, but I think that it is misleading and that you would wrong the Danish Refugee Aid by saying that they cannot sort out what is objective and what is subjective. They are responsible for some interests, but I believe that this is the best interests of the refugees in terms of their being treated fairly. I think we can count on Danish Refugee Aid to look at matters objectively and then assess whether what is happening is right and fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164420	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164422	In fact, it is usually the case in ordinary court practice that if a judge is involved in a particular case and has a particular interest in a case, then he will be ill-advised. So now we are talking about Danish Refugee Aid, which certainly has an interest in this issue and which has also affected the political agenda for decades here at home. I will then just put a question to the rapporteur. Now that we say it is a court-like authority, can the rapporteur see that there might be a problem of viability? It is a private interest organisation which has the very purpose of being called refugees. That is why the private interest organisation is in the world at all. When that is the purpose, is it impartiality that governs those decisions? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164509	I have no interest in suspicious Danish Refugee Aid or other organisations. I can only note that nothing proves in any way that there should be a lack of impartiality mentioned by the rapporteur. There is nothing to justify in any way that we should have this suspicion in relation to their decisions in the mention.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164528	The next question is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164532	Thank you. We have clarified what the Alternative thinks about Danish Refugee Aid in the Refugee Board. I don't think it's gonna come as a big surprise. But I would like to know what the alternative is for the Refugee Board to be able to sit and make decisions which actually change Danish asylum policy, because it is decided that people from a particular area have easier access, for example, to asylum, to run it according to some special procedures, etc., without passing a minister or committee in the Folketing. Does the alternative think that this is a good way to do it, or do they think that it should be the case that if you change Danish asylum policy in some area, it should be politically determined?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164608	I'm quite comfortable with the Foreign Affairs Agency managing what they're supposed to do. When something lands in the name, it is because a complaint has been lodged, and then there has to be a review body. So I am quite confident that it will not get past a political party or the government in office at all times.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164623	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164625	In addition to the fact that the Refugee Board decides on specific asylum cases and thus acts as an appeal body, the Refugee Board can also take a decision that really changes Danish asylum policy and is not just about a single asylum seeker and whether he or she should have refugee status, but is about whether people from an entire country or an entire area of a particular country should have easier access to asylum in Denmark following a special procedure. Should not such decisions, because they concern not only one person but several people, pass by a democratic majority in the Folketing, so that there is political support for the asylum policy we are pursuing in Denmark? That's very reasonable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164701	I do not think these decisions should be politicised. I believe that today's mention does exactly what it has to do. If we want it to be different, then we have to legislate on it. As far as I can see, there is no majority in favour of this. There will be a discussion of the name later this year, I can hear from the government, and the Danish People's Party wants it too. Then we have to look at whether there are some who want to change that composition, but I see no problems in the mention. There are regular complaints about the name, including from outside, from other international organisations, but it is rare because it is too helpful to refugees. In fact, it is often because there is a critical look at whether things are going right and fair. So we're comfortable with the name.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164737	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next speaker is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164746	Thank you. The Danish People's Party wants to take Danish Refugee Aid and the Council of Lawyers out of the Refugee Board and therefore wants to remove the representatives who have direct knowledge of the conditions on the ground, where the refugees are fleeing, and have direct contact with and knowledge of refugees here in Denmark to whom they are fleeing. Knowledge and expertise and practical experience must therefore not play a role in the work of the Refugee Board. I don't understand. We in the Radical Left think this is a bad idea. It seems to a much greater extent that the Danish People's Party just wants to be free of the critical voices that draw attention to the reality of refugees both in the neighbourhood and in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164845	There is a brief comment from Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518164849	Of course, it is a little strange to ask a question, because we agree. But it is because the Danish People's Party has now asked various rapporteurs several times whether it is not a problem that Danish Refugee Aid is in the name, because Danish Refugee Aid is not impartial. I am just surprised at that argument, because one can argue at least as much that the appointed representatives of the Ministry of Integration are not impartial. And now it is the decisions taken by the Board that the Refugee Board relates to. That's also why we call this a court-like body. It's just not a court of law. If we wanted to ensure total impartiality, we should allow these decisions to be brought before the courts. Can the rapporteur follow my thought, namely that it is a little strange to complain that Danish Refugee Aid should be particularly non-insurmountable when you have representatives who have been appointed by the Ministry of Integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165002	I can fully follow the rapporteur's thinking. After all, the Refugee Board is in fact widely represented. There are representatives both from the ministries, from those who know something about the conditions on the ground, and from those who welcome them here in Denmark. After all, it is a broad representation that has to decide on cases where there is uncertainty in the decisions, because they are either challenged or because we ourselves have asked for a decision. That is why the Refugee Board plays exactly the role that they must play and that we legislators have set out. The law is clear, and that is where there is uncertainty about it. I also find it very difficult to see how it would change how impartiality would become greater by getting fewer representatives from different places into the list.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165052	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165055	Thank you. It is in relation to the fact that the Refugee Board can take decisions that really change Denmark's asylum policy. Does the Radical Left consider this to be a sensible arrangement? Would it not be reasonable for some political element to be taken into account, a committee, a minister who had to approve those decisions? do not reject the individual complaints that actually go in and change the Danish asylum policy, because for example. say that people from a particular area should have easier access to asylum and that cases should be run according to a special procedure?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165127	I fundamentally disagree with the paragraph put forward by the rapporteur. This House also legislates on Danish asylum policy, and then we have the Refugee Board which, in specific cases where there is disagreement or where there has been a complaint, has to decide on the rights of the individual. In the light of our legislation, international conventions and fundamental agreements, of which we are a part, they must of course do so. That is the task of the mention, and I think they are doing very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165201	One thing is that we take a position on specific cases, and another is that we take a position on such a general change in Danish asylum policy. It may be in relation to anyone who comes from Syria or to a large group that comes from Syria, and it could be from Somalia, etc. There have been examples of this in recent years. In these cases, would it not be appropriate, since it is actually a change which not only has consequences in a single case, but in a lot of cases, that there was also a political element in it? After all, however, this ensures a certain degree of democratic control.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165230	I completely disagree with the rapporteur that this is a change in policy. It is, of course, a reality on the ground in the countries from which the refugees come, or here, to which they come. That is what makes the decisions different, of course, because they change. These factors are, of course, taken into consideration in the light of the rules that we have and, incidentally, the conventions that we have signed up to. So I fundamentally disagree with the premise put forward by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165300	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I do not see the SF's rapporteur in the Chamber, and that is why we move on to Mr SF's report. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. The Radicals are greeted by saying that the SF agrees with the views of the Radicals. Thank you. Sir. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165321	I'm gonna get some air. I've been running up the stairs. I'm in good shape. We are in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. At the same time, we are listening to the Minister who says that there is a need for reform of the Refugee Board. We support that too. Thank you, Johanne So we are awaiting a proposal from the Minister to reform the Refugee Board, and we are also involved in getting Danish Refugee Aid out of the Refugee Board. It would also be good for Danish Refugee Aid itself, so that they are not accused of politicizing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165422	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Now everyone can see that we are working hard at Christiansborg! Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165434	Thank you for that and thank you to those who have made positive comments about looking at changes to the Refugee Board. Danish Refugee Aid has been mentioned a few times, but the Lawyer's Council has also mentioned our side. We in the Danish People's Party believe that the Refugee Board, which makes decisions on asylum policy, which deals with complaints concerning asylum-related decisions of the Foreigners' Board and whose decisions are final, as it is today, has lost credibility over the years and has too much influence on Danish asylum policy. The problem with the mention is that as a non-elected body it has a major influence on the policy of Denmark in the area of asylum and that a number of members of the jury have been appointed by Danish Refugee Aid and the Council of Lawyers. Danish Refugee Aid is an interest organisation working for the refugees' cause. This is a good thing, but it is not necessarily necessary to sit on the board that decides whether or not to have a residence permit in Denmark. The same can be said of the Council of Lawyers. After all, they have often been out to argue both in parliamentary and public hearings that it is their job to look after the interests of refugees and asylum seekers. Once again, it is quite legitimate to have these views, but then it may not be so appropriate to sit on a board which helps to decide whether to change the course of Danish asylum policy or whether people should have a residence permit in specific cases. With this motion for a resolution, the government is required to amend the rules for the appointment of members of the Refugee Board, so that no private organisation appoints members to the Board, and is also required by the end of 2016 to submit a specific legislative proposal limiting the influence of the Refugee Board on asylum policy and ensuring democratic control over the work of the Refugee Board. This could happen, for example, by passing a minister, a committee here in the Folketing or a very special committee set up for the occasion. In the long term, the Danish People's Party wants to abolish the Refugee Board completely and instead allow the National Council to make decisions in the specific applications for asylum. In our view, these decisions should then be final, and there should only be recourse to appeal in specific cases. However, as it may have a rather long prospect of having that part implemented, we are sticking to this modest proposal and we acknowledge that there are some parties which, after all, can see that there is a need to look at the composition of the mention. It has to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165657	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165700	Thank you. In its observations, the proposers state that the proposers want democratic control over the work of the Refugee Board. This could happen, for example, by the fact that when the Refugee Board takes a decision that directly alters Danish asylum policy, the decision must be approved in the Folketing or by the minister responsible. Are the proposers not nervous that it would initiate a procedure with a lot of individual cases that would come up in the media and put political pressure on the Folketing and the parliamentary committees, and that we would thus actually end up dealing with a lot of asylum cases on a single basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165742	That could well happen if that is what we proposed, but that is not what we are proposing. In the most optimal DF world it would be the case that individual cases would be decided by the Foreigners' Board, that is, there should be no political interference in individual cases. And the decisions that then make you simply change Danish asylum policy that they for example. in writing. - (FR) In the Refugee Board, people coming from a particular area in Somalia must have special access to asylum in Denmark, and these are matters where it does not concern just one person, but several people must, in our view, be subject to political control.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165817-2	Is it the opinion of the proposers that the Refugee Board changes Danish asylum policy when they, for example, change Danish asylum policy? Is it considered that a particular population from a particular country or from a particular area of a particular country should be granted asylum under a specific paragraph of the Aliens Act? So, is it not the opinion of the proposers that they are changing Danish asylum policy, or are they not just interpreting a current situation into the legislation we already have?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165851-2	Yes, they interpret in the light of the legislation that exists, they also interpret on the basis of international conventions, and then they interpret on the basis of judgments from, for example, the Court of Justice. European Court of Human Rights. And when they then come up with such an interpretation, which is crucial to how many people from, for example. Somalia or Syria who gets asylum, then we think that such an interpretation should also be approved politically, because it affects how many people get residence permits in Denmark, and we think it is important that it is under democratic control.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165919	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165936	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518165955	Let me start by stating that I have basic sympathy for the thoughts behind motion for a resolution B 120 here, namely the desire to protect the Danish welfare community and create the best framework for successful integration. We all have a responsibility to ensure that Denmark is linked culturally, socially and economically. We must help people in need, but we must also do so in a way that we can keep up with ourselves. We must take care of Denmark. I have gradually repeated it to skinlessness, but the government is the guarantor of a consistent foreign policy which must ensure an open Denmark for those who can and will, and close the doors to those who do not. The government has therefore carried out a large number of tightenings on the rules of foreigners since we came in, and fortunately together with the Danish People's Party. Tightenings have taken place precisely to ensure that our rules on foreigners are adapted to the current refugee situation and to take care of Denmark. Indeed, we should not take up so many refugees that it will threaten our cohesion and our economy, and the number of asylum seekers obviously has an impact on the challenges we will face in terms of integration efforts. At the same time, we have introduced temporary border controls at the Danish-German border to support the handling of the situation and to counteract the possible accumulation of refugees and migrants in Denmark. All these measures seem to have had a noticeable effect. Thus, we are currently seeing that both the number of entry and the number of asylums have decreased since Denmark introduced border controls and since we adopted the restrictions in the field of aliens. I can also say that we are following developments day by day, because that can change very quickly. I can therefore guarantee that I will monitor developments very closely and will also be ready to take further action if needed. Against this background, the government cannot support the proposal, but I look forward to the further debate and, of course, also look forward to us discussing the issue together, because the important thing for me and the government is that we help people in need, but that we can also keep up with ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170230	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170234	Thank you. Of course, I acknowledge that the government, as I hear it at least, does not rule out new restrictions on foreign policy. It is also a step in relation to the announcement a few weeks ago. However, I would like to ask about this point of limiting non-western immigration. For last week, the Left was the co-sponsor of a proposal for adoption in this Chamber, which spoke of reducing non-western immigration. And since you meant it last week, there is certainly nothing wrong with maintaining the view this week, albeit with a different choice of words: you say that now you want to restrict non-western immigration. So what's happened since last week?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170311	Nothing has happened since last week, but I think we have a common wish that we should, of course, ensure that we can keep up with Denmark in terms of integration. And yes, there is no doubt that numbers matter, and that is why we have implemented the austerity we now have in the field of foreigners. We do, of course, because after a few years we needed a red government that had relaxed more than 30 times in the field of foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170351	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170352	So I would like to ask in this way: is the political ambition of the Left to work to reduce non-western immigration to Denmark, simply to work gradually to limit the number coming to Denmark, from non-western countries, with different kinds of action? These may be restrictions on asylum policy, the area of family reunification, and they may also be all sorts of other areas. In other words, it can also be arrangements that are about foreign labour or whatever it may be. Is it an objective of the Left to gradually reduce immigration from non-western countries to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170420	The Left's aim is to create a Denmark that is open to those who can and will, but to close the door to those who will not. That is the ambition of the Left. And where you come from is not what matters. But it must also be said that there are some who are harder to integrate into Denmark than others, and we can certainly see, if we look at the non-western immigrants who are now in Denmark, that then they find it difficult to get hold of the labour market or vice versa, so the labour market is also having difficulty getting hold of them. This is a major problem, not just in economic terms, because it costs on transfer income, but also because it costs on the value level when you do not take part in Denmark. So the Left's ambition is to have an open Denmark for those who can and will, but to close the door to those who will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170508	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Dan Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170520	In the Social Democratic Party, we also believe that the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark is of great importance for our welfare society and is of great importance for the extent to which we are able to maintain the welfare we have in this country; to what extent we are able to maintain the cohesion we have in this country; and in particular to what extent we are able to integrate the people who are actually coming. In relation to the latter, it is of course probably where we disagree most with the Danish People's Party, since we have the ambition that foreigners coming to Denmark, including asylum seekers, should actually work and be an active part of our society while they are here, whereas the Danish People's Party believes the opposite. Nevertheless, I am of course pleased that the Danish People's Party will use interviews with social democratic politicians as a starting point for the resolution. It's always nice when you can inspire. Nevertheless, we would like to say no and reject this proposal. We have just entered into negotiations and also helped to adopt quite far-reaching restrictions on Danish legislation on foreigners, simply because we think that, although we must of course help refugees, it is self-evident that, for the reasons I mentioned earlier, we will have to have a slowing down in relation to the number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170642	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170644	We were so happy in the Danish People's Party when we saw that there were several Social Democrats who were out to say that now we had to limit non-western immigration. Sir. Henrik Sass Larsen said you would do anything to limit the number. Everything's a lot, you might say. So I would really like to hear whether, after all, we can get the indication that it is a social democratic objective now, when we do not support the motion for a resolution. Of course, we are sorry to have to limit the number coming to Denmark from non-western countries and whether it is simply a political ambition of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170718	It is not, in fact, a new policy that we in the Social Democratic Party believe that the number matters. I think we have been advocating this for quite a number of years. Where, of course, one can say that we have moved because we have It is clear that that situation does not seem to end right now. We are in the midst of a refugee crisis which, unfortunately, will be a crisis for many years to come. So to the question: Yes, we need to bring down the number coming to Denmark in order to keep up for the reasons I mentioned in my opening speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170756	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170758	Thank you. Does this mean that the Socialists will come up with new proposals aimed at limiting immigration from non-western countries? After all, it is a very violent immigration that we have seen, in fact for several years, and we have the ambition in the Danish People's Party that that level should be reduced. We have had this for a long time, and we are pleased that other parties are now increasingly beginning to say that there is a need for even more austerity in the field of foreigners. But does this mean that we can expect more proposals from the Socialists, more proposals on austerity, which are about targeting how to limit the number coming to Denmark from non-western countries? 'Cause if we don't, we're gonna run the risk of it just sticking to the talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170834	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170836	As I mentioned earlier, we have just made rather far-reaching restrictions, and of course we stand by them. It is clear that it would also be a little strange to conclude some negotiations and say that they were satisfied, and then just a few months later say: we believe, moreover, that much more needs to be done. That is not our view. We actually believe that the level we now have is quite reasonable, but we do not reject anything in the future either, because we cannot know how the world will change. There may be a need for further tightening. We're also gonna have to talk about new family reunification rules at some point. Here we have also presented some proposals, just as we, together with the Danish People's Party, have put forward ideas on how to limit the immigration of labour from non-western countries in situations where it would lead to social dumping and undercutting of Danish labour, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170928	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170931	Thank you. I am pleased that the Social Democrats are voting against this motion for a resolution. We are voting against it in the Radical Left too, but the Social Democrats recently adopted their own proposal for a decision to limit non-Western immigration. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: what does the rapporteur understand about non-Western immigration? How do you define the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518170959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171000	As a starting point, I believe that when we talk about non-Western countries I cannot say how all Socialists at all times, when they have used that expression, have defined it and asked about such my own definition of it, then it is immigration that is from non-EU countries except the Anglo-Saxon world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171023	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171024	Should there be a nuclear war or other things that caused people from the Western world to flee, is it not the number there that plays a role? It is only non-western immigration that is a problem that the Social Democrats will do everything to limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171050	Frankly, we are trying to take a rather serious approach to these things and are trying to point out which countries you have problems integrating people from. I would like to say, if that is what is, like implicitly, behind the author's way of presenting it here, that there are some problems with using such a categorization because, for example, there are. is really good experience of integrating people from Southeast Asia. I fully understand that. But I would like to reserve the right to have a new debate if there is a nuclear war, so that I do not have to answer for what I think of this today. I don't think it's that serious again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171128	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171147	Thank you. The Left supports a consistent and responsible immigration policy. In a very, very short period of time, we have carried out historical tightenings in the form of an integration service, an asylum package I, an asylum package II, and we have introduced temporary border controls at the Danish-German border. It is all the measures that have made it significantly less attractive to seek asylum in Denmark, and of course the Left is satisfied with that. In fact, we could see on DR television how we had the lowest number of asylum seekers in March and April for five years. Tightenings include the government and the Left. introduced together with the proposers who, with this motion for a resolution, call on the government to convene political negotiations to limit non-western immigration. However, this is not a call that the Left can support. In fact, we have every confidence that the government is following the situation close to the territory of foreigners. It has done so ever since it took over the power of government and that it is ready to take further steps at very, very short notice, if this proves necessary. In fact, it is also worth noting that a large part of the measures that we adopted earlier this year allow the government to go in and act exceptionally quickly if there is suddenly a new high level of asylum pressure. In addition, we have every confidence that the government will, of course, also call for new negotiations if a change in the situation actually occurs. So, although of course the Left supports the line taken by the government, among other things. support from the Danish People's Party, so we do not think that the time is relevant right now to call for new negotiations. That is why the Left does not support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171333	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171337	Thank you. After all, there has been pressure on Denmark for years now in relation to the very violent influx that there is in general, especially when we are talking about immigration from non-western countries. So, in view of this, one might consider calling for negotiations at such a relatively rapid rate, if one could seriously say that one should do something about it. But there's something else I'd like to ask about. Last week, of course, we had a proposal for adoption which was put to the vote in this Chamber, and it was about reducing non-western immigration. I just want to know if it is still the view of the Left here well and well a week after 1 week and 1 day, but that is not so long in order to change the policy in such a crucial way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171416-2	A lot can happen in eight days, but in this case nothing has happened. And, as I recall, I also believe that we agreed that we would limit, in particular, that part of non-western immigration which does not contribute to society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171434	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171435	Yes, that is true, that is what it says, but it also said about a general reduction in immigration from non-western countries. So I would just like to know whether the Left still has the view that it is necessary to work towards a general reduction in immigration from non-western countries, thereby reducing immigration from non-western countries. Is that the point of view of the Left? I also think the Minister said so, but it may not be quite clear, but does the Left have a political ambition to work to reduce the number coming to Denmark from non-western countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171502	But our view is exactly the same as it was a week ago, and now I do not have the text of the proposal for adoption that we adopted before me, because then I would like to read it out to put it as precisely as possible. However, if you are to say so in purely Danish, the problem lies in the large amount that comes here as illegal immigrants, as asylum seekers, etc., who come to Denmark and end up being a huge burden and which we would like to send back to their home countries as soon as there is peace. The problem does not lie in the individual man who might come here from, what do I know, Japan and work as an engineer, so I see no problem with that. And it's through the lens that I see the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171540	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171549	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we will of course come to the negotiations to which we are invited, so if the Danish People's Party's proposal is adopted and we are invited, we will of course show up. But as I understand this proposal from the Danish People's Party, it is about finding even more ways to scare refugees from seeking shelter and protection here in Denmark. We believe this in the Enhedslisten is an unsolidarous response to a world-historical refugee crisis and therefore we cannot support the proposal either. We strongly disagree with, for example. The deterioration of the refugee's right to family reunification • all those refugees who today receive § 7 para. 3, i.e. what is termed temporary protection status, must at present wait 3 years before they can be reunited with their family, i.e.. spouse and minor children, here in Denmark. War divides families, we all know that, but I think that Denmark should contribute to the reuniting of these families rather than working to maintain separation. The Danish People's Party wants to further weaken the refugee's right to family reunification, and that is among other things. some of what the Danish People's Party believes these negotiations should concern themselves with. As I said, we in the Enhedslisten believe that this is an unsolidarous and wrong response to the fact that historically many people are forced to flee. There are no easy solutions to this, it goes without saying, but we know that there is a need to stabilise in the neighbourhood. It is therefore in the very famous and immensely mentioned neighbourhoods that the vast majority of the world's refugees stay either as internally displaced persons in the war-torn countries or in the famous neighbourhoods. I think it is a completely wrong way to go when Denmark chooses to cut back on development aid rather than turn it up in a situation like this. It is also obvious that there is a need for much stronger cooperation in Europe in the distribution of the refugees who come here. We also believe in the Enhedslisten that the government should work for that. However, as I said, the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171800	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518171813	We are here again, and we are tempted to say, because we had a similar debate, it is a week and a half ago, although it seemed, as I interpret today's debate, to end up with a somewhat different result. But that's how wonderful life is. I would say, like the last time, that the number matters to the Liberal Alliance. Of course, the whole world cannot live in Denmark, but we do not distinguish between where people are from. We take the view that when it comes to immigration, care must be taken to attract the diligent, law-abiding and democratic people and to limit the lazy, criminal and anti-democratic people. We can do this by making a policy that is about getting to Denmark only if you have a contract with a Danish employer in advance, and that you can then stay here as long as you comply with the laws of the country and do not oppose the rule of the people. Of course, you can face the situation of becoming unemployed and until you obtain a permanent residence permit, we believe that you can then get a 3-month period to apply for a new job. In this way, we ensure that the diligent and law-abiding are attracted to this and can stay here and contribute to the Danish society for the joy of themselves and for the rest of us. Then, in relation to refugees, we want to put in place a humane asylum freeze, which is about shutting down asylum in Denmark itself for a two-year period. We give a minimum of 6 billion. kr. to help Syria and Syria's neighbouring regions during that period, and we welcome 4 000 UN quota refugees per year during the same period. Then I will go back to where I started, namely the frustration which I have also sensed in the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Martin Henriksen. In fact, something quite different has happened in today's debate from Parliament's largest and third largest party than when we were here, indeed, were we voting on Tuesday? At least that's quite recent. That's why I also looked up the Danish Dictionary on the Internet to find out the difference between limiting and reducing this. And that's interesting, for reducing means limiting while limiting means reducing. So it has been clarified why it is that the Left and the Socialists do not vote the same today as they did last time. I don't know if it's gonna solve anything for mr. Martin Henriksen, but it certainly did, that they voted with the Danish People's Party last week and vote with the Liberal Alliance today, and that is the way the world, as I started by saying, is quite marvellous.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518172044	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518172047	I was actually going to ask another question, but I'd like to sign for the investigation if you could call it that but at least for the attempt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518172056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518172057	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518172100	Is there another question? There isn't. Then we would like to thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and move forward. The next one is sir. René Gade as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518172109	We have several proposals on the programme this evening, and the previous one reminded us a little of this, and the future one will also remind us of this. It is on the whole a question of how we want to present Denmark and how we want to welcome the people who need help. Here it is important that we do not get into a very divided debate where, when we state our opinion from the Alternative, we believe that we can solve all the world's problems on the Danish side, and that there is no stop to how much a country can handle how many people you can help in a small country like Denmark. That is not what we are arguing for. That's not what I'm saying today either. But I do not want to stigmatise individual groups of countries or people or cultures. That is why we are not going to back this proposal either. On the contrary, we are going to say that we are going to focus more on what is really causing the problems in the world, rather than focusing on how to keep them outside Denmark's borders. Because that's putting off the problems. We can all promise in this Chamber that the problems will overpower us to a very, very great extent if we do not take the inequality around the world and the desire to get to a safe and secure place very seriously. That is why we would urge that instead of cutting development aid and closing our borders and closing our borders, we should try to open ourselves here in Denmark and say that we are dependent on the world around us, and that is why we need to back up. Then we also have much better chances of doing so in a relaxed and sensible way, so that it does not destroy the cohesion force or the Danish culture, of which we are all very, very proud.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518172252	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then the trip has come to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518172301	Thank you. This is a teasing proposal from the Danish People's Party to the Social Democrats, and peace be with it. However, we have had the debate, and the Danish People's Party does what they otherwise go and warn everyone else against, namely that everything about refugees and immigrants is mixed together in one bulb. We need skilled foreigners in Denmark. Danish companies really want to be able to recruit more skilled foreigners, and we cannot cut them off from recruiting by distinguishing between East and West. They have long surpassed us in many of the countries east of us and will then be categorized under non-western immigration. It's a hole in the head. It will put Danish companies behind schedule. At the same time, we in the Danish Parliament cannot decide where wars and conflicts must arise. We can try to prevent it and solve it, but can hardly make such decisions in this Chamber as to where they arise, whether it is east or west of us, and therefore not decide where refugees can come from and where they cannot come from. That is why this motion for a resolution does not make much sense to us, but should negotiations be convened on immigration in general, on the admission of foreign workers or on refugee matters, then the Radical Left will, of course, always be very happy to participate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518172453	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Jacob Mark as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518172502	In the SF we are also always happy to take part in political negotiations, but we think it is a rather peculiar approach to force the Minister to convene negotiations, especially when the resolution comes from the government's largest support party. In the SF, we actually believe that it is essential to curb the flow of refugees, and we do not only do so because the massive flows of refugees that we are seeing right now have an impact on our ability to ensure good integration. This puts pressure on the municipalities, for example. in kindergartens and schools. And the number of refugees means something; you have to be honest about that. But we are also concerned about the flow of refugees and are interested in limiting them, because such flows show that people have something they are fleeing from. They're running from their homes. And our position is that we must ensure a world where people do not have to flee their homes. How do we do that? So how do we limit the flow of refugees? We can start by ensuring that all children are entitled to schooling. It's not like that right now. We can also ensure that all young people have the right to a future, so that when they grow up in the camps or the area around the camps down there, they can see themselves get a job, see themselves get a life. We can ensure that adults can get a job so that they can support themselves and their children. We can ensure that there is a right to food and drink. With the way in which development aid is being cut right now, with the way in which aid is being reduced to the neighbourhood areas, and that is generally the case, it is not only in Denmark that it is actually really difficult to finance water and food for the many refugees who are right now. We've heard that for ourselves because we were on a trip down there in Jordan. It means people are running away. People flee when they cannot see a future where they are, when they cannot support themselves, and when they cannot give food and drink to their children. That is why I also hope that the Danish People's Party will help to increase the aid we give to Syria and Syria's immediate regions, because it is clearly the most effective tool to limit the flow of refugees against Denmark. However, since I do not see the proposal of the Danish People's Party as a proposal to secure negotiations to increase aid to the neighbourhood, we do not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518172727	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518172734	The first two lines on page 1 state: "The Danish Parliament instructs the government to convene political parties to negotiate foreign policy with a view to limiting non-western immigration to Denmark as much as possible. When you read it, you think it doesn't hurt to call for negotiations on immigration. But when you read pages 2 and 3, you see that it is more about Social Democracy and their group chairman. As the radical rapporteur also pointed out, it is a mockery of the Socialists, and it takes some of the seriousness of the proposal. So we can't back that up. Having said that, we are helping to limit that part of immigration that does not contribute positively to this society. They are the ones who are straining Danish society. It is important that we be open and approachable to those who contribute, regardless of their background. Now take the example of the sushi chef today from Fanø. It is quite grotesque that, because of some bureaucratic rules, they will not be able to extend their residence permit. Now the Minister of Integration has been out and welcoming, and he will probably be allowed to stay here when he has sent a new application. Although such ones, which contribute positively to society, are not Western, they are welcome. But it is grotesque that someone like the Gypsy boss who has never contributed anything positive can stay here. So what is important to us is who contributes and who wants Denmark. Those who want to are welcome, and those who do not want Denmark, those who do not contribute, are not welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518172924	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518172935	Thank you. Since 2010, the Danish People's Party has had a political objective of limiting non-western immigration, especially the part that comes from Muslim countries. When we proposed it in 2010, we were very alone with that policy. In fact, all other parties clearly indicated that they were opposed to this. Since then, other parties such as the Socialists have come forward with a message. The chairman of the group, sir. Henrik Sass Larsen, has been out to say very clearly that the Socialists want to limit the non-western immigration to Denmark. We think that is very positive. Several speakers have spoken about Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen and Mr Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Naser Khader said it was gonna be a teasing suggestion. That's not really the point, really. As I have said, we have been talking about this for a while and we would actually like to test whether other parties mean what they report to the public. That is, in fact, the reason why the proposal is coming at this stage. Well, then, that's what Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll also said that last week the Left and Conservatives actually supported a proposal for adoption, which is about reducing non-western immigration, and the Socialists had their own proposal, which was about limiting non-western immigration. Then we had the idea that when you had that idea last week, it might also be that you have that view this week. It may be that next week we will be returning to the fact that we actually want to adopt some things in the Parliamentary Assembly which oblige the parties and the government to work to reduce non-western immigration to Denmark. For the Danish People's Party, this is about culture, it is about cohesion, it is about traditions. There are limits to how many people we can welcome in Denmark because we are a relatively small country. If we are to further limit immigration I am, in fact, in favour of some measures being taken, including excellent measures, and if you have the view that the number is too high, then we cannot rest on the laurels. Then there is a need for new austerity, and that is why, with the resolution in its simplicity, if it is adopted, we will require the government to call political parties for negotiations on immigration policy in order to limit non-western immigration to Denmark as much as possible. If that is what is meant by outsiders, then we should also vote in favour of it in this Chamber. But we will do so again on another occasion. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518173155	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518173201	Thank you. It is, in fact, a little bizarre that the Danish People's Party makes such a proposal on the basis of articles they have read about Social Democrats in the newspaper. If you're gonna believe what Mr. Martin Henriksen's chairman says that the Danish People's Party has far more influence in being outside the government than in being part of a government. So, sir. Martin Henriksen could simply demand these tightenings, as Mr. Martin Henriksen would like, was implemented. But could Mr. Martin Henriksen not only give a single example of something that the Danish People's Party has got through in the field of foreigners, which they would not have been able to get through if Mr. Martin Henriksen had had the job of Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration instead of Mrs Inger Løjberg?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518173247	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518173249	It is always difficult to predict this kind of thing, but a very good example, I think, is that when the Left Government presented it before Christmas it was in the context of the Finance Act negotiations that five points for tightening up the immigration policy were very clearly marked that it was unsatisfactory, and afterwards we came up with about the approx. Thirty restrictions on foreign policy. So I think that is a very good example. Then you can also tell whether it would have been 30 points from the beginning if it were that the Danish People's Party was in government, but one of the reasons why the Danish People's Party did not go into government was that we did not think that the Left went far enough in the field of foreigners, and therefore we have a better opportunity to push them when we are outside. There are also some good examples of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518173322	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518173324	Now it is not the case that the Danish People's Party can say that because they have influenced the government to something, it is proof that it is true that there is more power in standing outside the government offices. It would have been possible to put these things forward directly as a starting point or even to go further if Mr. Martin Henriksen had been Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration instead of Mrs Inger Nøjberg. The Danish People's Party then does not want him to be, but what is very, very strange, I think, is that you use my party and other parties to impose anything on the government when you claim that the Danish People's Party has more influence on the government than if they had themselves been in government. Why does Mr. Martin Henriksen not just the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to convene these negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518173413	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518173414	It is the case that whether you are in government or not in government, there is a majority in the Folketing to be able to move things forward that is the way it is. If we can then see that the Socialists go out and report that they also want to limit non-western immigration, something we have been saying on the Danish People's Party for years, it is clear that then we think that this sounds very sensible. If we can then agree, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats, that we want to limit non-western immigration, then we can vote in favour of it in the Assembly, and if other parties also want it, the Left wanted it last week, and Conservatives wanted it last week too, there should actually be a broad majority in the Folketing in order to do so. That is what politics is about: developing your policy, announcing it publicly, and then voting in favour of it in the Parliamentary Assembly. At least we think so in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518173455	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518173522	The debate has been opened, and it is first the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518173530	There is no doubt that the pressure on Europe's external borders remains great. Europe is challenged and Denmark is challenged. It is therefore also important that we have sustainable and effective solutions, both at international and European level. The government is the guarantor of a consistent immigration policy to ensure an open Denmark for those who can and will and close the door to those who will not. We want to take care of Denmark, and that is why we have also rolled back the relaxation of the immigration policy that the Socialists carried out when they had government power. In addition, we have tightened significantly on the conditions of asylum and residence in Denmark. Firstly, in November 2015, we adopted asylum package I, which provides the authorities with a number of new tools to deal with an increase in the number of refugees and migrants who enter and stay in Denmark and ensure the maintenance of order. Secondly, in December, we adopted legislation allowing for the possibility of implementing transporter responsibility when travelling to Denmark from another Schengen country, if Denmark introduces temporary border controls. Thirdly, in January, we had asylum package II implemented, which contains some very significant restrictions in the area of asylum and migration in order to make it significantly less attractive to apply to Denmark. With the proposal we are debating here today, the proposers propose a total change in Danish asylum policy. Refugees arriving in Denmark should not, according to the proposal, be protected in this country, but should be sent to camps in the neighbourhood or camps in other countries that are willing to receive refugees for payment. This is not the first time that the Danish People's Party or other parties have made similar proposals, and the proposal can also immediately be attractive and enticing. However, the proposal presented to us today does not relate to the many practical and economic issues, but also to legal issues linked to the idea of setting up camps in the neighbourhood. To deal with practical problems first: we cannot simply set up or fund refugee camps or reception centres in another country without the consent of that country. Experience shows that the main countries of refuge or transit, for example: in Africa, to a large extent sceptical about taking on a great burden as hosts of large refugee groups. It may thus be difficult to find a country that will agree to receive refugees from Denmark. In addition, it is clear that establishing and operating the camps will require quite considerable financial resources. In addition, there are also a number of legal challenges associated with the proposal. Denmark, for example, has. an international obligation to ensure that asylum seekers who have applied for asylum in Denmark do not return to their country of origin or another country where they are being persecuted. In addition, an asylum seeker has the right to submit a new application for asylum in Denmark, whether he or she has been refused an application in the vicinity, and even if Denmark is setting up camps in the neighbourhood. It is therefore not difficult to imagine that there will be refugees who will try to enter the European Union over and over again and, if I may put it briefly and briefly, I believe that the proposal lacks a deeper processing of these elements. Having said that, it is of course also necessary to take on a close area effort, and Denmark assumes its responsibilities. The government therefore focuses on helping in the neighbourhoods. Strengthened efforts in the neighbourhood are necessary in order to find a sustainable and effective solution to the refugee and migrant challenges, otherwise we risk many thousands more refugees and migrants going towards Europe and Denmark. It is important to remember that we can help far more refugees for the same money by focusing on the outlying areas, and at the same time it will also be easier for the refugees to return home and rebuild their country when there is peace again. But it will be the case, as I have also explained, that very great difficulties will arise if we are to move forward with the idea of camps and reception centres in the neighbourhoods at this time. But I would also like to say that it is the case that new thinking is also needed, and that is why I think it is good that the Danish People's Party is making a proposal like this, although we on the part of the government cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174046	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174051	Thank you. The Minister is quite right to say that if this proposal were adopted, it would not be the case that a model was just found tomorrow. After all, there is a very long run-in phase in relation to actually implementing this. We would then have to go ahead and find out how this could be done in practical terms, and there are also a lot of legal issues that need to be clarified. However, I would like to ask whether the government basically believes that this is the right way to go, and that there are other arguments to the effect that we cannot support this specific resolution, but that we basically believe that this is a road to start moving down if we want to change Danish asylum policy in a crucial way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174129	After all, it is worth discussing everything, because we are faced with an issue which is difficult and which is profound and which affects Denmark very much, but one just has to relate to, even now at an initial stage, that there are therefore very, very major problems associated with it here, both for legal reasons, but also for economic reasons and also for the practicality that it can actually be very difficult to get the transit countries and the neighbouring countries to take on this task. We can see how, for example, we can see how. Kenya is currently very sceptical about the very large refugee camp there. So it's not that easy, and we're just gonna have to... I think I'm already saying that this isn't just an easy solution. It sounds very easy and enticing, but it may not be so easy in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174235	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174236	But it works very well in Australia, I should say hello. There it works at least as intended, if you look at the number of spontaneous asylum seekers wishing to apply to Australia. But what I have the impression of the Minister is that the Minister does not think that it is possible to take the decision now and then then start to examine how it can be done. Could you do it the other way around? Will the Minister be prepared to look into how this can be done here and now, and also to examine whether I was about to say the market in relation to whether there are countries that want to welcome refugees from Denmark, if, on the other hand, we increase aid from the developing countries to the country in question or what it might be? Would this be a method of progress that could be used once it has been legally established? Will the government be interested in examining whether this is possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174321	You can look into everything. That depends on whether there is a majority in favour of it. But I just want to stress once again that it is not that easy. It is on paper an easy and enticing solution, but in the real world it is just harder. But you can investigate everything, and you can do it with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174349	Thank you for that, thank you to the Minister. We shall then proceed with the rapporteur's line, and that is first, Mr President. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174359	Thank you. Then we have another proposal here, in which the Danish People's Party evidently, in frustration at having so little influence over the government, has found it necessary to seek help from the Socialists in particular, I understand. And I understand that too, and we have also had several cases where we could work together, so peace be with it, because that is quite fine. I now consider this to be more of a teasing proposal, because I really think that the authors of the motion know that there are a number of legal and practical problems in implementing the proposal as it stands here. That is why I can also agree with the Minister on the reasons she highlights as a reason for rejecting the proposal. Having said that, it is clear that I think the discussion is exciting, because I believe that we can hardly imagine anything other than that at some point in the future, I believe that there will be much more camps in the neighbourhood of much better quality than those we have today, with the possibility of education, with the possibility of having a dignified life. After all, the alternative is that millions of people are moving to Europe, and I simply do not think Europe can cope with that. So the discussion is exciting, but this specific proposal I consider mostly a teasing proposal, and we reject it as well. If it is not a teasing proposal, we are so fortunate that the Danish People's Party is the largest bourgeois party in the Danish Parliament and, of course, has the power to set foot against the government. Sir. Martin Henriksen has said earlier today that there must be a majority behind and so on, and the Danish People's Party has the power to pull the curtain away under the government. It is clear that if the Danish People's Party believes that there is a solution to the biggest problem for the Danish People's Party in Denmark, namely this problem of foreigners, a solution that is just to be found, it is strange if you can support a government that does not support that solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174606	Sir. Martin Henriksen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174609	Thank you. One must always be a little cautious in overthrowing the government, especially if it is the Socialists who are coming to do so, with the support of the Alternative and Radical Left. So I'll just chew that decision or decision through a couple of times before we cancel it. I think that is very sensible. I would like to hear the views of the Socialists on this. It is no secret that this is also a motion for a resolution which has been tabled, among other things. Because the Socialists have announced in the press that you think this is a road to go. But will the Socialists commit themselves to a resolution in the Danish Parliament if not in the context of this motion for a resolution then in other ways they simply require the government to work for what a majority in the Danish Parliament believes, namely that we should get there at a time when we simply have camps in other countries to which Denmark can send refugees instead of giving them a residence permit in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174657	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174658	No, we organize our own policy without pressure from the Danish People's Party. We have among other things. in some of the interviews referred to by the Danish People's Party, presented our views on these things. Then I'd like to correct a misunderstanding. I didn't say that the Danish People's Party had to overthrow this government to get it through. I don't think that's necessary. The Danish People's Party gets all sorts of other things through by just threatening it or by just saying: OK, we don't support government policy in x field unless we get this through; it's an ultimate demand from the Danish People's Party. It is strange if the Danish People's Party, in the main policy area for you, has apparently found a solution to all our problems in the field of aliens to pick up, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing refuses to pick it up, must resort to the help of the Social Democrats and others in order, through the Danish Parliament, to instruct the Minister that now she must call for negotiations. Why don't you just say that's the way it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174752	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174753	It is because we live in a democracy and there must be a majority in the Folketing for it. That's the way it is. These are the conditions that we are all subject to in here unless there is something I have completely misunderstood. Then we have just noted that the Socialists share the wish with the Danish People's Party that if refugees come to Denmark, they should be rejected at the border. We deal with their case in Denmark, and then we send them to a camp abroad, where we then provide them with protection, if that is what you assess they are entitled to. Otherwise, you can start the usual repatriation procedure if you think they should be rejected and returned to the country from which they originally come. If the Social Democrats agree with the Danish People's Party and the Danish People's Party agree with the Social Democrats, it is obvious that we are helping each other. There have also been people from the Left who have indicated that they want to go this way, but when it comes down to the Parliament, where you have the opportunity to influence it, you do not want to vote for it. So I just want to call on the Socialists and Mr. Dan Jørgensen to reconsider, if not if not now, then at a later stage he must back up the policy that has also been launched in public.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174854	Thank you. Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174855	First of all, Mr President, I would like to point out that the statement made by the President-in-Office of the Council on this subject is a very important one. Martin Henriksen here just makes that the two proposals are not the same. In other words, we believe that a given model should also be based on a common European solution, so these are not the same proposals at all. But I would also like to arrest the reasoning that there must be a majority in favour of things. Well, yes, it has to be in the end when you vote on something, but if there were to be a majority for every little thing always, when you just put it down in the Folketing, and it then fell, if there were no majority, then there would be little political implementation in the Folketing. This is not the way a debate is going on. You put forward your ideas and then you make some compromises, where there is probably not a majority for the individual elements, but a majority for the overall proposal. There's just what I'm saying is that if this is so important to the Danish People's Party, if this is the snappy solution to the most important problem that the Danish People's Party has, then I just don't understand when you even have more power, what you say you have, by standing outside the government, why you don't just demand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174946	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518174947	Thank you. I am glad that the Socialists are voting against this proposal. I would like to ask, following on from that, whether the Socialists support Mr Beyer de Ryke's motion for a resolution. Henrik Sass Larsen's announcement or suggestion that Denmark should establish camps in Libya and send war refugees from Syria, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175017	Here you go, sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175018	As a basic rule, social democracy always supports the views of our group chairman, and I do so in particular. So if that's what was in the question, I can confirm it. I am not reading the article in exactly the same way as Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, and I have also talked to Henrik Sass Larsen about what the content of that article was. That, sir. Henrik Sass Larsen said quite clearly that it is very difficult to imagine exactly what countries it could be, and then he mentioned some countries as it might be. But none of us know whether that will be the case. But the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing is right to say that there are quite major legal and political problems in imagining such a model right now. What can happen in the future, none of us know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175102	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175104	I can therefore depart from this debate with the great pleasure of seeing that the Socialists do not believe that the Danish Government should at this stage work to set up a camp in Libya where refugees who have come here to Denmark, for example. from Syria, must be sent to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175128	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175129	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175136	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175136-2	I have just been confused at a higher level, because I really had the expectation that the Social Democrats would at least express their appreciation for a proposal to send people back to the camps in the neighbourhood, given that this is what the Social Democrats have said. So, I think there must be consistency between what is said outside the Chamber and inside the Chamber. Well, I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175202	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175203	Well, I'm not really so surprised that sir... Christian Langballe is confused on a higher level. I simply cannot explain it better than I did in my opening speech. Maybe I can recommend sir. Christian Langballe to read the relevant articles to which the comments on the proposal refer, and there I think our position is actually well described. I think it's pretty self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175230	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175231	Yeah, yeah, but on the outside, it just seems a little like spin, compared to wanting a lot of things, but when it comes to practical things, you don't want to be in it. It's an honest case. The rapporteur must then explain this in some way to himself and to others. I just think it's weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175253	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175254	Well, I'd like to say to sir. Christian Langballe, that the Minister explained this very well. We have explained this very well ourselves. Henrik Sass Larsen explained quite brilliantly in the interview he gave, why it is not a vision that can be implemented tomorrow. There are a lot of practical, political and economic problems with it, and we cannot do much more than explain it over and over again. We can explain it to Mr. Christian Langballe, but we can't understand it for Mr. Langballe. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175319	Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175322	Thank you. I remember when I woke up that morning and read the paper, I was quite surprised, because I thought this was a new break in asylum policy in Denmark anyway. And I am really glad that the Socialists are voting 'no' today. I also hear that Mr. Dan Jørgensen says that he still supports the chairman of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. I can tell you that the group chairman called it the Socialists' new bid for a humane asylum policy, that people would be brought together in Algeria and Libya, and that people would be escorted back there nicely if they came to Denmark. Now the rapporteur says, as I understand it, that it is not something we are imagining going to happen right now; then we would probably have voted 'yes' as well. So when do you think this is gonna happen? Do you have a view or a view? Are we talking for a few years? What's like the time horizon for these visions? These are quite far-reaching changes in the way asylum policy is viewed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175423	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175426	As Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen also said a number of times in the days around the interview, when he was asked, there is no timetable for this. There are so many legal, economic, political problems that have to get rid of before something like this can be done. Moreover, it must be part of a common European solution. This requires that the EU's external borders are managed as a first step. So there are a large number of reasons why it is hardly something that will see the light of day in the foreseeable future, if ever. But, frankly, I think that the questioner agrees with me that Danish politics should sometimes have room to think about what the world looks like sometime in the future and what it looks like. On the other hand, I would like to ask the question: can the questioner perhaps imagine a world where there are no better working camps where there will be more in the future? I do not think so, because the alternative to that is that millions of people are coming to Europe, and it is, as far as I know, not the SF's policy that it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175529	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175530	I think it is quite fine to have visions, and I think it is also a very good policy to think that the camps in the neighbourhood should be strengthened. What I am concerned about today is that there is no room in those camps. There's no such place in the neighborhoods. The surrounding areas are already lifting a lot, and when I read Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen's statements, I thought: Oh, now it's such a cheap round, and now we just send the refugees back to some camps that don't really exist. I think it is okay with visions, but I just want to hear about those visions; they can only be done, provided that the refugee conventions are fundamentally changed. Is this a showdown that the Socialists want to make with these conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175615	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175616	Firstly, I am not sure that is necessarily true. In other words, one of the things that makes it difficult to do so right now is that there is no peace and stability in those places, so according to the conventions it will not be a safe place to send the people. However, the agreement that has been made with Turkey right now, which I believe has been discussed by others in this Chamber earlier today, shows very well that one can think in that direction. That is why I certainly do not believe that this is excluded in the future either. However, I fully acknowledge that there are, of course, also some issues relating to the conventions that make this difficult, and that is also why I started by saying that this is not something that is right; it is something that will require many and long discussions, not least at EU level.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175659	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175719	As you know, the Left shares the opinion of the proposers that the EU and Denmark have been challenged in these years. As I have explained so many times before from the platform, the Left is fully aware of the need for solutions to the challenges we face. With the motion for a resolution here, the Danish People's Party proposes that we return refugees to camps in the neighbourhood or to camps in other countries. The Danish People's Party does so without specifying which countries are involved or the legal and economic consequences that the proposal will inevitably face on its way. But, of course, I look forward to listening to the Danish People's Party about what it is for some countries, for example. could be. Now Social Democracy has proposed Libya, as I know, is the largest wasp nest of Islamic States outside Iraq and Syria. Could it, for example? be Turkey, which is about to succumb to, as I remember, 2 million refugees already? Could it be Lebanon, where about a quarter of the country is currently refugees? Could it be in Jordan, which is also heavily pressured? Then you mention Australia, which is a beautiful model, but Europe and Denmark are not an island where there are countries around us where it would make sense. So I have great sympathy for the proposal, but I just do not think it makes much sense in the real world that we are facing. In addition, it will only be possible to dump many of Denmark's international obligations in the garbage can. We have said that we are, of course, willing to look at them, but not to the extent that they are here. On the other hand, we support the line we have put in from the beginning, a line where we work closely with, among other things. The Danish People's Party, and I am very, very pleased about that. As in the past, we will ensure that Denmark pursues a consistent and realistic policy on foreigners, where we minimise to an absolute minimum the number of asylum seekers and migrants who come to Denmark. We will then open up Denmark more to those who can and want Denmark, and at the same time a policy on foreigners, in which we naturally support those countries in the neighbourhood which are already very, very pressured to take refugees. We are already doing this with very comprehensive programmes, including: to support in e.g. Jordan, in Libya, so that the structures that are there do not collapse, and they do not also develop into countries from which they are fleeing. But the Left cannot support this proposal, as it is, from the Danish People's Party, however well-intentioned it may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175952	Thank you. This is Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518175957	Thank you. There are a number of Liberals who have publicly expressed sympathy for this proposal and have said that it needs to be examined more closely and so on. So I just want to know when the Left intends to start looking into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180009	After all, we are in an ongoing dialogue with the countries and also with the countries in the neighbourhood. We are part of what is popularly called coalitions of the like-minded, where together with, as I remember, Norway, Great Britain and a few other countries we go out and talk to countries in the vicinity if you can call them that; it could be Afghanistan • about receiving refugees who have been rejected in Denmark. In addition to that, we are constantly monitoring the situation in Libya, Jordan and Turkey and, of course, if there is an opportunity to do this responsibly, we are also open to it. I just don't think it's available right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180047	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180049	[Sound emission]... it may also be countries other than countries in the vicinity. But what Mr. Marcus Knuth says that we are working on what changing Danish governments have always been working on, and at least for a very long time, namely that rejected asylum seekers can be sent back, but that is not what this proposal is about. What I am asking is: now that several Leftmen have repeatedly expressed sympathy for this proposal and have said that it is something to be looked at, etc., the question is whether it is something that the Left will actually start to investigate. In fact, will you open up a dialogue with other countries, which is, of course, about whether they could be prepared to make an agreement that, for example, we should have. Does development aid increase to them or otherwise make a payment and then in return make sure that they receive refugees who have found their way to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180131	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180132	As I said in my speech, I have, as does the Left, sympathy with what the authors of the motion for a resolution mean by this, and if it were in front of us, I am sure we would respond. However, I am fully confident that the government, in its ongoing contacts with the countries in the world, will seize the opportunities that are available if they arise at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180155	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180157	Thank you. In other words, I believe that any political proposal that comes, if you have a sympathy for it, must also mean that you continue to work on it. I really think that this could only cause the Left to really start to investigate whether refugee camps could not be placed in the neighbourhood. I think it is a little strange to experience a time when refugees cross several borders across Europe to get to places where they really want to be, instead of searching in the country closest to them. Personally, I find that strange, but I also think that someone is saying that border controls cannot be done, and then it is actually starting to look like something now. And we have proposed various things that people have said in the past could not be done, and then it actually turns out that it can be done if there is a political will to do so. So I just ask the Left: is there a political will in the Left to really look into the possibility of using this opportunity to place people in the neighbourhoods in camps?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180307	Well, I look with great sympathy at many of the proposals that the Danish People's Party is making, including those that we are discussing today. You just have to see it in a realistic framework. So, I do not see any country in the world for me who would say that they would like to receive, what do I know, 10,000 refugees from Denmark, and where we could do it responsibly. I can't see that. If that situation develops, I am sure that the government would like to seize the opportunity and take that dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180338	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180341	Yeah, but maybe you should start looking into the possibilities. Then it might actually be possible, that is to say, that you were really working to look at the possibilities that lie within this proposal and say that, of course, refugees must be close to their homeland. For the starting point is that they must return again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180402	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180403	I think that we should give weight to those initiatives which have the greatest impact on the short term, for example. like that we can make an agreement with Turkey, where you can send migrants and refugees back, or actions that we have made nationally here in Denmark with the Danish People's Party, and which have minimized the number of asylum seekers to record low figures right at the moment. That is not to say that it cannot change over the summer, but we are constantly making initiatives where we work in exactly the same direction as the Danish People's Party, precisely to minimise the number of asylum seekers in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180438	Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180441	I had actually imagined waiting for my own rapporteur's speech, but I have to ask for the use of the word sympathy on the part of the rapporteur. I am, in fact, a great advocate of recognising each other's views, and I also think that this is actually what the rapporteur is doing, so that there may be something right and reasonable in the view of the Danish People's Party. But I think it is very unsympathetic to say that this is an opportunity for the people and for those who have not been as lucky as those of us who are sitting in here, in other words to be able to examine whether it is actually an opportunity. So I would just like to ask whether it is precisely the proposal that is so pragmatic that a proposal is being put forward, and it seems like a sympathetic one, and one is trying to create a debate or whether it is actually sympathetic, because it conveys to the Danes that it is an opportunity to send refugees who are in need back to camps that do not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180552	Sir. Marcus Knuth
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180553	When I use the word sympathy, it's how am I supposed to express myself because I can see where the Danish People's Party wants to go with this. If Denmark is in a situation where there are exceptionally many refugees, then it could be an alternative to having refugees in Denmark if it could happen in a hundred percent responsible and humane way. So when I use the word sympathy, it means that I understand Danish People's Party and where it is they want to go with this; just like when we discuss where DF would like to go in relation to border closure, which we don't think is just something you go out and do, or that here in the Folketing you just have to decide that we close the Grimhøjmoskeen. We would like to have another legal process, although we have sympathy for the intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180641	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180642	As far as the alternative is concerned, we also want to say: the immediate areas, yes. If it was an option, that's where you had to do it. From an economic analysis that would be clearly the best thing, but we just don't see it as an option right now. And then the last question to the rapporteur must be: is it a realistic possibility that we can ever have a situation in which Denmark sends all refugees back to camps and that we do not receive refugees in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180708	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180709	It is a very hypothetical question, but the Left has before aired the idea that this could be an opportunity if it could be done responsibly, so I will by no means deny it. But it should of course be in a way where the camp was driven according to Danish conditions and where people lived according to Danish conditions. In other words, when the word refugee camp as well as the word refugee village can have many meanings, it should of course be done in the Danish way and be the result of Denmark being in a situation where we are about to succumb to refugee pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180742	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518180751	It is very often said in the refugee debate that the solution to the refugee problem lies in the neighbourhood. I agree with that very much. There is no doubt that the absolute primary task of providing protection for the world's refugees lies in the war-torn countries and in the neighbourhoods, and not least for the simple reason that more than 90%. of the people who are on the run in the world are either internally displaced in the war-torn countries or in the neighbourhoods. Moreover, most people do not live in actual refugee camps, but have been more or less successfully integrated into the local area. The UNHCR, in other words the UN refugee organisation, is quite sceptical about the idea of refugee camps, because it is often seen that these camps are being set up as a temporary solution but end up being permanent. This does not mean that camps cannot be necessary. Of course, they can do so, but it is not necessarily the best tool. When I say this about the neighbourhoods, it is also to say that I think it is a very big mistake that the right has chosen to cut the development aid, which, among other things, has been the case. I would like to make a few comments on this subject. So you have, for example. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. It is an organization which, among other things, is: works to build and strengthen infrastructure such as the school system, the health system in Syria and the neighbourhoods. It is very sensible to invest in infrastructure. A country like Jordan has received about 1.3 million Syrian refugees. Jordan has an Jordanian population of about the same size as the Danish one. It is clear that it is a very heavy burden on their system, including the school and health system, that there are suddenly so many refugees. I think it is pointless that, in such a situation, we should choose to cut on, for example. The work of the UNDP. After all, we are also at risk of these very famous neighbourhoods crumbling under the pressure of refugees, and if they do, then refugees will actually come to Europe. Anyway, where am I going with this? I would say to the Danish People's Party: yes, the main task in helping the many people who unfortunately need protection is clearly in the vicinity. The Danish People's Party's proposal is then that the refugees who have found their way to Denmark should be sent to some non-existent camps in nearby areas or elsewhere. First of all, one of the countries which Mr. Martin Henriksen, as I recall, has suggested, yes Kenya. Now it is quite a long way from Syria to Kenya, but leave it alone. Kenya currently has the world's largest refugee camp, Dadaab. By the way, Kenya has announced that they will no longer house these very large camps, which, among other things, include: provide protection for hundreds of thousands of Somali refugees who have lived there for decades. Sir. Martin Henriksen and I have jointly visited the Jordanian Interior Minister about a year and a half ago. I introduced the Jordanian Minister of Interior to Mr. Martin Henriksen's proposal and said: 'Well, could the Minister of the Interior imagine accepting the refugees from Syria who had come to Denmark?' The Minister for the Interior was a polite man, but he pointed out that Jordan has received more than a million Syrian refugees, and he was thus not, what should be said, sympathetic to Mr. Martin Henriksen's proposal. The Minister pointed out, among other things, that Syrian refugees are not therefore to a greater extent a Jordanian responsibility than they are a Danish responsibility, because they are therefore not citizens of Jordan. Secondly, the Danish People's Party refers among other things. to Mr. Sass Larsen's proposal to set up camps in Libya. I don't know what the reality is, sir. Sass Larsen and Dansk Folkepartie live in. Who is it, the Danish People's Party and Mr. Sass Larsen imagines you should call which militia? For Libya will be at the moment. ruled by militias, including the Islamic State. Imagine that the Danish authorities should contact the Islamic State and say: Excuse me, Islamic State, would you like to run a camp where the people who have fled from the Islamic State and Assad in Syria and come to Denmark can be sent to? Is it really supposed to be this way? How can the Danish People's Party guarantee the safety of these people in any way? Thirdly, the proposal is quite blatantly contrary to the UN Convention on Refugees. And precisely in a situation such as that in which the world is currently in a situation where historically many people are on the run, it is very important to stick to the convention that the world community jointly made on World War II. Well, the world community looked each other in the eye and said, "Never again." Never again should we find that people who flee because their lives are in danger are rejected and returned. After all, it was a wise decision that was made at the time of the Convention. As I said, precisely in a situation like this, there is a need for such a convention. That is why I think it is sad that the Danish People's Party is proposing that you should not care about it. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518181351	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518181407	The Danish People's Party has raised the debate about sending refugees back to camps in the neighbourhood or to camps in other countries, which must then be understood as outside the neighbourhood. In the Liberal Alliance, we take the view that it is important for the international community to help the world's refugees and that Denmark should assume its share of this responsibility. We also want to be able to help more closely in the area of conflict than we are doing today, because we do not believe, from the outset, that we should have the right to choose the country in which aid is to take place. However, we see things in a slightly different context than here, where alone we talk about aid in the camps. We have the idea that we should do what we call a humane asylum stop. It consists of three parts: that during a two-year period it is said that people cannot apply for asylum in Denmark itself; that during that period Denmark spends the minimum 6 billion. kr. that will be saved on this in relation to government budgets, to help in Syria and in Syria's vicinity, primarily in relation to food aid in Syria, to food aid in UN camps in neighbouring countries and to school aid for Syrian children growing up in Syria's neighbouring countries. Finally, there is the third element, that is, that during that period Denmark will have to take more UN quota refugees than we normally do, namely 4 000 per year, we imagine. So we are kind of open to the fact that there could be a talk about how to do things in a different way. We just think that you should do more things at once. You can't settle for just this item. The Liberal Alliance cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518181610	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518181618	As I said earlier in the debate, in the alternative, we are very aware of and agree that the neighbourhood is where the most effective and also the most comprehensive aid is provided so that it can reach the most people. If we put it into an excelark, we will also find that, economically speaking, it would be much more sensible to help in the neighbourhoods. What is our point and what makes us unable to support this proposal is that it is simply not possible at the moment to absorb the flow of refugees and to counteract the refugee crisis in the neighbouring regions we currently have. They are heavily loaded in every way, and so what I think it is quite wrong to bring this to a debate. I understand the vision that it might once theoretically be possible to send all refugees who are trying to stay in Denmark back to some camps. I may think it is unsympathetic and not quite responsible and unconstitutional, but if we now assume that this is actually an option, then it is at least so far out in the future and so far from the reality we have today that I think it is to blind people and actually destroy the relevance of talking about the neighbourhood being a place we have to invest. Because it is going to give people the idea that we actually have the opportunity today to solve it here in the neighbourhood, in other words to say on the part of Denmark and on the part of Europe: we are shutting ourselves down and ourselves, because it is not our problem, it is a problem that lies outside Europe. I think that's too bad. We have such a responsibility to help globally. When we talk about neighbourhoods here, it might be interesting as regards the distance that exists between some of the countries that are considered to be near areas, to say that we in Denmark focus on helping all the places in the world where there is a need. Denmark cannot help everyone here in Denmark, but it is necessary to look at the fact that nearby areas have gradually spread to all other places, when we mention them, in relation to where refugees are to be helped, i.e. those that we do not want to help in Denmark. So it is now almost legal to say that it can be anywhere else in the world than just in Denmark. I think that is too bad. In the alternative, we do not believe that refugees should remain indefinitely in camps where they can be for decades. Lejre is something that is planned as a temporary solution, but unfortunately we often see that this is something that will be a lasting solution. We must, on the other hand, invest in international cooperation, where Denmark takes the lead. We cannot take the lead in numbers or the size of financial support, but we can at least take the lead in sticking to the values and morals that Denmark is known for in the world, and that is where we believe that Denmark should continue to take the lead. This proposal is in every way in my view a way where you do not take the lead, but instead go at the back and where it is not that the strongest shoulders carry the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518181926	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518181931	I have a very general question for the alternative in principle. I think that the alternative portrays it as if Denmark has not done its thing on this altar. If you ask who is actually carrying at the moment, it is mainly Europe that is carrying; not many countries outside Europe are carrying Saudi Arabia does not bear, the United Arab Emirates does not carry. But we see that people can raise the quarter of the world and come up here, and the rapporteur would like to stand up as the guardian of morality. I think that Denmark has been holding since 1983 when the unhappy refugee law was introduced. I don't even understand the fact that you can get on the high horse of morality. And then I just think that in here in the Folketing you should remember that it's people outside this hall who pay the right bill in terms of parallel societies and everything else. And those from the Alternative can move to the fine addresses and then stay there without having contact with them. I just think it's just as much to say that we're really just standing in the back of the line when I think about how much we've actually taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182052	Sir. René Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182053	After all, it is important for me to point out, as I say in virtually every debate about something that just reminds me of this subject or security policy, that I am extremely proud to be a Dane. I am extremely proud of the support we have given around the world, I am extremely proud of the role we have internationally. The contribution we make is far, far greater than almost all other countries in the world contribute. So I'm not after Denmark not doing what we're doing, but I'm after that if anyone is going to help solve the crises we're seeing right now, it's just Denmark. It is not because we are not contributing enough, because we are contributing very well, but when I say that this proposal makes us stand at the end of the line, it is because it has gone completely against the way Denmark has helped so far through history, in other words by disclaiming us responsibility, by asking that others should solve our problems. So I am anxious to say that in every way, including from a cynical economic point of view, Denmark would do well to intensify our foreign contribution and our support internationally significantly, otherwise we will see that we will suffer much greater economic distress than the refugee crisis that we are experiencing today, because it is only by investing massively in the inequality that is around the world and creating more equality that we will experience that Denmark will not be overturned as it sometimes sounds to us to become.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182215	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182217	Why even hide the fact that this is the case? There is a migration towards Europe, and why? It is, of course, because we have done so very well. Now people can just say that this can eventually solve, but the thing is that we are creating a country of parallel societies where we destroy Denmark if this continues. It is fine that the rapporteur will not deal with it, but we are just the others who will have to. At least I'm thinking further ahead than just this generation. If this continues until 2050, I predict that there is nothing more called Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182257	I am arguing in favour of investing heavily abroad, massively in those areas where help is needed, because I would just like to look far ahead in the future. A solution such as this one, which I do not see possible today and which I do not see possible in the future either, and which, if it were possible in the future, would only do us good here in Denmark and some other European countries, because simply moving the problem outside the borders of Europe would pose a completely different challenge in the long term than only in the field of security policy. It is not about prosperity anymore, it is about whether we are going to war on quite different fronts than we are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182332	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182335	Thank you. I would like to say that if assistance from the Western world to third world countries were the solution, the problem would have been solved a long time ago. So more is needed if it is to limit the flow. National austerity is also required. But I would like to know whether the alternative rapporteur, Mr. René Gade, is of the opinion that there are limits to how many people you can receive in Denmark, or whether you can just keep accepting in the next decades too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182401	One of the reasons why we have to invest so heavily is that we cannot solve all the problems here in Denmark. We cannot have all the people in need, nor can we pay for all the people in need. So we need to go out and invest massively with all other countries that have the opportunity to do so in a sensible and predictable way, in creating solutions locally that make people not attracted to travel so far in order to have security and security. So we fully agree that Denmark cannot accept an infinite number of people who need our help.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182430	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182433	But massive investment has been made over decades by the Western world in third world countries, and it is not the case that it has decisively slowed down its flow. So you cannot say that investing massively can stand alone. It simply cannot, for then it would have worked a while ago. It is good that the alternative says that there is a limit somewhere, but I would like to hear: how close are we to reaching that limit? Are we in the neighborhood somehow? Have we reached the limit? Does the alternative and René Gade think that there are too many coming to Denmark for the present? If you mean that, then you must also help to implement national austerity measures which limit access to Denmark, not only by investing massively in neighbouring areas, etc., but also by implementing measures which make it possible, for example, to do so. is more difficult to obtain a residence permit in Denmark. Will the alternative do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182514	What is important is that we in Denmark manage to get the people who come to the country to contribute in a sensible way or if it is not possible to get them to contribute while they are here, at least make sure that when they return to the countries to which they are going, they have the opportunity to contribute because they have not diminished whole people from being here, but have been strengthened, among other things. Because of what we can contribute here in Denmark. So our view in the alternative is that we must contribute in every way to helping those in need. But to provide a figure of how many we can have in Denmark when we have such major crises is to completely distort the debate. We can't just say we want 50, 'cause what if there's 60? Well, this is a theoretical exercise that is very easy to communicate in the media, but which in no way makes sense, in relation to we have to solve a global problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182602	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182612	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party wishes to send all refugees fleeing to Denmark back to the vicinity or to countries that, on payment, will house them in closed camps. In general, I think we should listen when the Danish People's Party speaks. I take the politics of the Danish People's Party very, very seriously. Of course I do. The Danish People's Party today belongs to the political elite. It is Denmark's second largest party that decides whether or not the Prime Minister stays in office; the party that could have taken over the Prime Minister's Office if it wanted to. So there are many, many things that could be taken into account in the Danish People's Party's proposal here. There are many things in the political elite that I and the Radical Left fundamentally disagree with. But I just want to focus on one thing that I think it's important for everyone to deal with. Because with this proposal, the Danish People's Party wants to report Denmark out of all or at least most international agreements. With this proposal, the Danish People's Party wants other countries to take on tasks that the Danish People's Party does not want Denmark to undertake. It will also mean the termination of conventions and agreements on fundamental rights, which also apply to ourselves, and which we thereby denounce for ourselves. And that would ultimately mean that we should resign from the European Community. In other words, it would have enormous consequences for Denmark. So it is not just a fundamental change in the Danish asylum system and the Danish asylum policy, as the proposers write. This is an outline of the way Denmark has worked with our neighbours and partners for decades. It is also worth noting. We are therefore opposed to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182827	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. A brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182831	Thank you. It is true that it is a proposal that would have far-reaching consequences if it were adopted, because it would fundamentally change the way we do things. I would then say that some of these things can actually be contained within a number of conventions. But it is true that if it were adopted, we would also have to look at the limits imposed by the conventions for the implementation of this proposal. But I would like to ask about the position of the Radical Left. Does it basically mean that the way in which we are doing things for the present is therefore receiving and continuing to receive refugees year after year and decade after decade is a sensible way of doing so? We can see the consequences for society. That is also why, elsewhere in the Folketing and in the government, there are debates about what is going on in mosques, in parallel societies, etc. with social control of girls. It is about the fact that we have an immigration to Denmark, among other things. via the asylum system, which is simply out of control. Can we continue with this over the next many years?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182926	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518182927	I am also deeply concerned about the challenges that result from the fact that there are many refugees in Denmark and that integration over decades has not worked as well as we want it to. I think we actually agree on that. We are so deeply divided about the solutions. The way I believe that in the future we must ensure that there are fewer refugees coming to Denmark and to Europe is by significantly increasing efforts in war zones, with prevention and with development aid, neighbourhood assistance. That is what we want in the Radical Left. We need to look beyond the world and realise that there will be more refugees if we do not make significant efforts with development aid, a significant climate effort. I wonder again and again why the climate effort and the whole green transition are not Dansk Folkeparti's case no. 1, because that is where we will see the problems in the future if we do nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518183036	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518183038	But as I also mentioned in my discussion with the rapporteur for the Alternative, Mr. René Gade, you cannot say that massive investment in the neighbourhood, for example, is what is needed in order to limit the flow. For even if the appropriations go up and down for individual countries and for the Western world and for the European Union etc., massive investment has been made both in Africa and in other countries. And it is not the case that the decisive thing has slowed down decades of influx to Denmark or to Europe for that matter. It hasn't. So it is not a solution that can stand alone. That is why other things need to be done. That is why the question remains as to whether the Radical Left believes that we can continue with the asylum policy that we basically now have. Then we can tighten up here and there sometimes, or we can relax when a new government comes, but can we basically continue with the asylum policy, which means that year by year people are going to Denmark which we cannot figure out how to integrate, also because they do not want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518183129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518183130	I fundamentally disagree with the rapporteur on behalf of the authors of the motion for a resolution. I think that's a claim. The rapporteur cannot prove that refugees coming to Denmark will not be integrated. So it's just a blow to the air. Refugees flee from war, death, destruction and persecution. We have a duty to deal with this in Denmark as well as in Europe. If we want fewer refugees, and we certainly want that in the Radical Left, then we need to address the complex issues of war, conflict, security policy, foreign policy, development policy and climate policy to which we are committed. We want Denmark to become more involved in those areas. We want us to support further and that we also have to do so in Europe. We will only be able to do so together in Europe. Each of us can't do anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518183223	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518183234	The Danish People's Party proposes that the Danish Parliament instructs the government to implement a policy by 1 November 2017 whereby spontaneous refugees arriving in Denmark will either be sent back to camps in the neighbourhood or camps in other countries, without specifying who it should be who will receive refugees for payment. This is a total change in Danish asylum policy. This is, moreover, the same proposal that the Socialist Group chairman of the Group of the Party of European Socialists has previously put forward in Jyllands-Posten. Today's debate has shown that the proposal from Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen was not a concrete proposal that was envisaged within the next few years, but rather a vision. This resolution is very concrete, because it is a resolution that intends to impose on the government to do something as early as 2017. I actually see the proposal as quite unrealistic, but also unsolidarous, and why do I do so? I do, because, as a starting point, there are no camps to send these refugees back to. The neighbouring regions are taking up a huge part of the aid given to refugees. Many millions of refugees are already living in what we call neighbourhood areas, in other words neighbouring countries. Many thousands of refugees are already in those camps, and Mr. Martin Henriksen and I ourselves have been in one of them, as I have said a few times here from the platform. And what we could see was that the camp was completely full. They are fighting to get food and water, they are fighting to get enough money to run the camp, so are the other camps, and they are, because the subsidies for the camps and the infrastructure behind the camps are being cut back. The many thousands of refugees who are not allowed in the camps must go to the country of which the camp is now part. We were in Jordan, and what we saw there was that the children and adults had to move out into the streets and live in upwells and live illegally. They could not get school because they could not be registered, the young people could not see a future, and the adults took all the work they could get to support themselves, and this pushed the economy of the country because there had been a marked increase in undeclared work. The country was incredibly pressured and the countries we call the neighbourhood are countries to which we say we should simply send refugees back. They're so intensely pressured that, for example. the largest of the refugee camps, it is in Kenya, is now being proposed to cease because Kenya says they will no more. And why wouldn't they? It is because we have ungratefully said: you must help more and more and fend for yourselves. We're cutting down on your subsidies at a time when we need you more than ever. So no, the solution is not to immediately send refugees back to camps that do not exist. That goes without saying. But I really think that the intention, as the Socialists also said, to strengthen the camps and, in the future, to set up more camps is a good one, and I would like to continue to do so. In fact, I think one can imagine that with increased development aid and increased support for the neighbourhoods, camps are being set up where all children are guaranteed schooling, where young people can see a future and where adults may have a job. In fact, I myself heard some of the Jordanian ministers say they would continue to work on that. But that required their help, so I think that is a very good vision. But if you imagine that from today or from 1 year to 2 years, we can just start getting people to return home, as several people have suggested, then I have to ask: where is home? Where are the camps to receive them? That vision doesn't realize itself. It will only be achieved by supporting Syria and Syria's neighbouring countries significantly financially, so that health, infrastructure, food and education can be provided. I therefore agree that it is primarily the neighbourhood and neighbouring regions that should receive and help these refugees. In fact, I think that has been the idea of the Convention on Refugees, in other words, that they should, as a starting point, apply to the countries around them. But it is also only natural that there are borders for neighbouring countries and neighbouring areas as well as for Denmark, so a relief model is needed. And it is a quota model in which Europe and the European Union commit themselves to relieve the surrounding areas, and I have not heard the Danish People's Party say this is a good idea either. But that is necessary, because otherwise the neighbouring countries and the neighbouring regions will collapse. So I agree that there is a need for a total change in Danish asylum policy. However, it must be by really starting to realise the visions that we have of strengthening the camps and neighbourhoods and actually fighting actively for a quota distribution in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518183738	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518183748	Thank you. It is a mockery of the chairman of the Socialist Group. I think it is important to keep the chairman of the group on track for many of the statements he has made in the media, but this need not be done through motions for resolutions. In other words, it is not his statements that should form the basis for reforming the refugee and asylum policy, as we believe it is necessary. It has to be much more thoroughly worked out. We are helping to push for a global reform of the entire asylum system. We do not think this is a fair way of doing things today. Few countries, for example, welcome most Syrian refugees, mainly Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. And then there are some countries that hardly accept the rich countries of the Gulf, South Korea, the country of the UN Secretary-General, which only granted asylum to 3 and Japan, which only granted asylum to 15. That's not a fair way to do it. So there we would like to press for a fairer distribution of asylum also in relation to it. At the moment, it is the case that people who have money for traffickers can have asylum, and those who cannot afford do not get the same chance, and we do not think that is fair either. We believe that those who cannot afford should have the same chance as those who can afford. And that is why we ourselves have had a proposal before New Year's, where we say that Denmark can handle approx. 5,000 refugees every year, and they must be taken from the refugee camps themselves. That is where they can apply for asylum. We would like to pick up families, because some of those who come are single, and then they have to have family reunification afterwards. We'd like to challenge the conventions in this area. Having said all that, it is extremely important to prevent people having reason to flee, to emigrate, to emigrate. I believe that it is the great failure and the great inaction that has been in relation to Syria that has caused people to flee. If we do not protect them in Syria, they will flee Syria. And there has been a great international failure. If we do not ensure that there are functioning refugee camps in neighbouring countries, they will flee further. And among other things... That is why we also negotiated the agreement that was reached earlier today between the European Union and Turkey on the activation of Syrian refugees. Well, it's not just about giving them food and water, but also about getting them activated, like in work or in education, so that they can help rebuild their homeland when they return. So yes, we are looking at the whole asylum system again, preferably through a new reform, a new way of accepting asylum seekers, very much, but not on the basis of this resolution, which is based on the statements made by the Socialist Group Chairman to the media.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184118	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184122	It is a good thing that there are several parties in this Chamber who say that they want to reform the asylum system, that they want to work towards something new. And then it is surprising that we will not be voting in favour of a resolution which is actually about exactly that. But that's the way it is. Sir. Naser Khader says you have to work to reorganise the system globally. Should I then understand that this is, as is the condition for the Conservatives to support a change in Danish asylum policy, and that we are just as waiting for everyone else to agree that this should be done? Because I could imagine that it has relatively long prospects if we are to wait for Saudi Arabia to think it is a good idea to accept refugees before Denmark starts rejecting more refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184204	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184206	We think it is important that we push internationally so that those countries that do not accept refugees begin to accept some. In other words, if the rich Gulf countries opened up their borders, there would be a number of Syrians who would rather go to the Gulf countries. There are many who would like to go to Dubai, Kuwait, Oman, etc. if they opened up, rather than being exploited by traffickers and risking their lives on the run over the Mediterranean. That is why it is important that we push them to open their borders. We must do so while working towards saying that we are prepared to accept 5 000 per year. We would like to pick them up from the refugee camps, and then you should not be able to apply for asylum in Denmark when you are here physically. But this can be done in refugee camps. We'd like to press the government to find out if that's possible. And in this way we would like to challenge the conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184302	Here you go, sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184304	Thank you. We fully agree with the Danish People's Party that we must do our best to press Saudi Arabia. Other countries, China, etc., could also be mentioned. I believe that in previous years 13 Syrian asylum seekers received, so it is not exactly a migration into China, at least not in relation to Syrian refugees. But you just can't make our efforts at home dependent on whether the other partners are right. We have to do something ourselves, and the way in which we can show the others that action is needed is, of course, that we are going to take the lead. And when do you plan to take the lead if it is not with this resolution? How, then, will one otherwise seek to impose its policy in the Folketing if one does not want to support it in the form of a motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184347	Well, one doesn't rule out the other. We can press those countries that have not accepted anyone to do so while at the same time making proposals for how we would like it to be done. We did that in December. In fact, we had a proposal on how we would like it to be done in future if it could be done within the limits of the Convention. Otherwise, we must challenge the convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184414	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184417	I now think that Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen should be commended for the suggestion he made. I think it is an excellent proposal, and it is therefore similar to our own. I just think it's a strange approach to things. We have just heard the radical rapporteur. They keep saying that we cannot do anything even in Denmark. But what actually works is border controls. We can actually create border controls instead of waiting for some international solution. Just as far as the European Union is concerned, that is to say, finding a solution to how to secure Schengen when will it come? I would say that I am more confident that we in the Danish Parliament could make some solutions that really made us defend ourselves in Denmark, because I simply think that there are too many. Moreover, I believe that in these years Europeans are taking on a responsibility. It is going to destroy Europe because there are so many, and that has been achieved over the last few decades. So I actually think this isn't just about Denmark's future. In fact, it is also about the future of Europe, which many people in the European Union seem to care about. But the thing about waiting for an international solution... can't we do something even at home? Can't we just stand up for ourselves? Can we not say that Denmark is our country and that we have a duty to protect it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184536	I did not say at any time that we should wait for international solutions. What I have said is that the way things are going today is not fair, that is to say that some countries are slipping, closing their borders and not accepting anyone, and then there are other, indeed European countries that have accepted very many. Denmark too. The number we've taken, we can actually be familiar. I am thinking of some countries which are larger than us, which have not accepted as many as we have. We cannot continue to do that, and it is extremely important that we do everything we can to reduce that influx. And, of course, we in the Conservatives have been involved in almost all the proposals that have been made about austerity. So it is not because we are saying that we are now leaning back and waiting for an international solution to be found. We are also trying to limit it by the means we now have in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184629	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184632	But then I have a question for the proposal. Because this is about setting up refugee villages, camps, or whatever they call it, in the vicinity. I think that must be the best solution. People should not move across national borders to reach somewhere where they want to be so much. But they are down in the neighbourhood, and I suppose that is what is meant to be sent back to help rebuild their country. I assume that the rapporteur fully agrees with me on this. And then it is natural that what you are fleeing to is a country that is nearby, so that the premise lies there, namely that you actually have to go back again. What we are doing at the moment is really just turning refugees into immigrants from day one, and then we are continuing with all this with lots of integration plans, as there have been over the years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184735	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184737	I agree that the best thing will be that people have no reason to escape. I therefore believe that the international community has failed in relation to Syria. When you don't protect them, they run out of the country. And I think it is important to maintain that they remain in the outlying areas and many of them have remained in the outlying areas. But what the proposal says is Algeria and Libya. Algeria is not, after all, a neighbouring region for Syrian refugees. That's 3,000 miles away. And Libya is gradually being taken over by the Islamic State. Has anyone asked Algeria and Libya whether they would like to open refugee camps to Syrian refugees? I believe that we must focus on the outlying areas, on those countries where civil war is taking place, and not on countries far away from them, even if they have the same skin color.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184831	Thank you. Sir. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184834	Thank you. In relation to the solution envisaged by the Conservative People's Party, it has to be said that it will require one of two things, either that Denmark withdraws completely from the pan-European cooperation in this area, including the Dublin Regulation, or that it does so here via an EU solution. Which of the ways is it that Mr. Naser Khader wants to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184904	A new book has just been published, called the Fight for Conventions. In it there is a discussion among lawyers, including young Gammeltoft-Hansen, that it is possible to send people to the neighbourhood and only to grant asylum from refugee camps within the framework of the Convention. What we would like to see is for the government to examine whether this can really be done within the framework of the Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184938	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184939	Well, that just wasn't the answer to my question. My question was: is it intended to bypass the European Union and thus also to withdraw from the Dublin Regulation, or is it intended to do so via the European Union and thus to ask the Danish people to withdraw our derogation in this area? There'll be Mr. Knox. Naser Khader therefore has to answer the very precise question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184958	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518184959	In December, we made our proposals on how we would like asylum policy to stay in the future. We were out to propose this, and then we have a wish that the government should investigate whether this can be done legally. In other words, we are making a political wish and we would like it to be examined in legal terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518185026	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518185035	Thank you for that and also thank you for the debate. A number of speakers have said here that the proposal cannot be implemented, and that is true, because there is no majority in favour of the proposal, and in this way it can be a little heavy to get it implemented before the majority is in place as the first. However, if there were a majority in favour of the proposal, the Folketing would require the government to seek to implement a policy whereby refugees who come spontaneously to Denmark are either sent back to camps in the neighbourhood or to camps in other countries which, for payment, will receive refugees, and this would then be a total change of Danish asylum policy. That is what we want from the Danish People's Party before, the better. The Socialist Group in the European Parliament has already expressed a favourable opinion on this, which is why it should be possible to support the proposal. The same should be possible for the Left, as there are also several Liberals who have been out to express their support for the proposal. In any case, you have expressed a very positive opinion on the ideas contained in the motion for a resolution. That is why there should in fact be support and a majority in favour of the proposal. Unfortunately, however, this is not what it looks like at the moment. The reason for this is, of course, that Denmark has been receiving large quantities of refugees for decades, and if we are to stop it for the good of the country and for the sake of future generations, we will have to find a new way of adapting our asylum policy, because the way we have done it for a long time is simply not sustainable. It is the case that sometimes the flow of asylum goes up a little, and sometimes it goes down a little. Sometimes there is a government that implements some relaxations that result in more people coming to Denmark, and at other times there is a government that, with different parties in the Folketing, carries out some tightenings. Fortunately, this is the period we are in now. This is certainly positive, but basically the asylum policy that has been going on for decades is being applied, and it simply does not work. If we are to change Danish asylum policy, we have to start somewhere, and that, of course, starts with a political decision to go a new way. Now you want to move in a new direction. However, several parties will not follow up their own press reports, and therefore the question has to be asked why they are making the announcements when they do not want to follow them up with concrete action in the Parliamentary Assembly. It is here, and of course also in political negotiations around here, that you have the opportunity to assert your influence. However, we must also be prepared to vote in favour of the policy that is being announced to the public, otherwise it may be a little slow to implement it. The Danish People's Party will continue to take up cases to seek to oblige the parties to follow the announcements they have made in the press. We will do so in particular when we think that the announcements are an escape with what we have previously reported on behalf of the Danish People's Party. I think it was back in 2013 or 2014 that we said that we believe that Danish asylum policy should be changed, so refugees should be transported to camps and centres in other countries where, of course, there are arranged conditions, and they should then be taken care of until they are no longer entitled to protection. This can then be compared with the UN Convention on Refugees. But one cannot say that because they are entitled to protection, it is equal to a residence permit and permanent existence in Denmark. We hope, of course, that at a later stage we can get support to work towards a change in Danish asylum policy, because we in the Danish People's Party believe that our children and grandchildren will appreciate it very much. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518185350	Thank you. Sir. Dan Jørgensen, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518185354	In fact, it's a little amazing that you have to listen to the fact that sir... Martin Henriksen blames the Social Democratic Party for not seeking the influence we could now have in this Chamber because we do not support a proposal which Mr. Martin Henriksen has put forward, which is, moreover, different from what we ourselves have put forward through the press, and even though we have explained well, fairly and objectively why it cannot be implemented right now. The reason why it's a little weird and bizarre is that sir. Martin Henriksen is a member of the largest bourgeois party in Denmark and that the Danish People's Party has chosen to stand outside a government because it is claimed to give more influence than if you were in a government. That's bizarre. If the Danish People's Party had been part of a government, this could have been part of the government base. Well, then, sir. Martin Henriksen did not have a large majority with the Social Democratic Party and all sorts of others outside the government then it could have been the government's policy. Why does Mr. Martin Henriksen, who can of course shell and waltz with the life of the government, not just the government to do this, if it's so important to sir. Martin Henriksen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518185453	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518185453-2	If you assume that the Left and the Danish People's Party had been able to agree on a government basis in which it was included, then there would probably be nothing I should decide a good probability that the Danish People's Party would then have joined the government. We also had other issues to deal with, such as a revision of the international conventions on which agreement could simply not be reached. So you have to agree on a government basis if you want to go into government together, but even if you agreed on a government basis, if we are now playing with that hypothesis, it would still be a minority government which should go out and find a majority for its policy in the Folketing. That is why it is only a condition that there should be a majority in the Folketing supporting the policy. And we are just in the curious situation that, if you are to listen to some of the reports that have been made to the public, there should actually be a majority in the Folketing in order at least to move in the direction outlined by the Danish People's Party here. For the Social Democrats have resigned as they have, the people of the Left have resigned as they have, the Conservatives have resigned as they have, and the Liberal Alliance has resigned as they have, but it is not being followed up in the Chamber, and that is basically the problem. But the conditions are this way in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518185607	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518185609	After all, there are many things in the government base that do not necessarily have a majority as a starting point. That's what it's like to be a minority government. And what I just can't understand, and which I honestly also think the Danish people have little difficulty understanding, is that you in the Danish People's Party say that you have more influence on standing outside, and now you come here with something that concerns the most important area for you there is no area that is more important to you than the immigration policy, and you even have the solution, it's easy to get implemented, you just have to do it, and then you won't ask the government to do it. You will not even demand from the government that they go ahead with investigations, that they take it up in the EU, etc. Why would Mr. Martin Henriksen doesn't actually demand it from the government if it's that easy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518185655	It's sir. Dan Jørgensen, the questioner here. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518185658	Thank you for the floor, President. Yes, but so, as I said earlier, it is the case here in Parliament that there must be a majority in favour of politics, so even if it were to come into a government base, that does not mean that it could be implemented in the Assembly. Well, that's the reality. One might also ask the same question: since the Socialists have actually proposed something similar, why will the Socialists not support the proposal? For it is surely also the task of the Social Democrats in life to gain support for their policies, and if that is what is most important for the Danish People's Party, and one must also assume that this is the most important thing for other parties. Then you're one step closer. Moreover, it is now that we are discussing government participation or not that the Danish People's Party actually wanted to see, for example. to write into a government basis that work had to be done to ensure that border controls were introduced. It would not be a part of that, but now we have got into this situation, so you can always guess whether it is because DF stands inside or outside the government • where we have actually got it through, which we could not get through in a government base, by other means, because now there is at least temporary border control.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518185806	The questioner? No. There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Martin Henriksen. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There is no such thing, and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518185833	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 19 May 2016. First, we need to get the rapporteur for the questioners up to justify the question. Here you go. It's sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518185905	Radicalisation is, of course, a process which leads to a person becoming more and more accepting the use of violence and non-legal means in order to achieve religious and political objectives. It is a process that takes place in several phases. First you start paying attention to it, then you get sympathy for it, you start flirting with it, you start supporting it, you start becoming a part of it, and some end up blowing themselves up in Iraq or in Syria or elsewhere. That is why it is very, very important that we keep up-to-date initiatives that meet the challenges of the different phases of radicalisation. It is also important that we pay close attention to the sources of radicalisation, including mosques, prisons, vulnerable residential areas, educational institutions, the gang environment and the Internet, including social media. That's why we're having this inquiry debate. It is therefore a call for the government to present a comprehensive, coherent national action plan for anti-radicalisation in all parts of society and at all levels. We are currently negotiating and have been doing so in the last few months on parts of this area, but it is extremely important that the negotiations and agreements we reach are put into a wider context as a national action plan. We have previously had several action plans, the last time shown in 2014, but it is important that the action plans are updated on a regular basis. We are several parties that have agreed on a proposal for adoption, and there I have been told that I can read that out in my rapporteur's speech. However, I hope for a good debate, and I hope that the government will undertake to present a comprehensive, coherent national action plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518190116	Thank you for the explanatory statement. Then we will have the Minister's answer, and that is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518190126	The Conservative People's Party has asked me to explain what the government intends to do about the radicalised environments in Denmark, including radicalised mosques. Let me make it clear that the government is looking very seriously at the threat posed by radicalised extremist environments. Extremistic environments contribute to polarisation in society. They undermine our values of society and the cohesion that we have built up over generations, and they pose a risk to our security. It is no secret that I am very critical of religious preachers and mosques who are spreading a dark thinking set that is completely incompatible with our fundamental values. We must stubbornly defend our democracy and our values. We must prevent radicalisation and combat violent extremism. We must put an end to traveling hate preachers that influence others into a fight with Danish values and democratic principles, and we must counteract negative social control and tendencies towards parallel societies. That is why I am also satisfied with our ongoing discussions among all parties on the fight against religious preachers who are trying to undermine Danish laws and our democratic values. Together, we need to find a solution to these challenges that we all agree must be faced. We have proposed by the government to introduce public national punitive lists of religious ministers and the like, which should be excluded from entry into Denmark. The list shall include traveling religious ministers and the like who, by their conduct and statements, give reason to believe that they would pose a threat to public order if they were allowed to enter the country. The list of sanctions shall be supplemented by a list of religious ministers and the like covered by EU rules who do not qualify for inclusion in the list of sanctions. We should not put Danish soil to hate preachers who encourage a dispute with Danish law and the very foundation of freedom that we have in Denmark. Together with the parties of the Danish Parliament, we have to look at whether certain statements can be criminalised, so that the problem can be addressed with religious preachers who make statements that undermine our Danish legislation. In addition to the new consistent action against religious ministers and mosques, the government is working hard to deal with radicalized environments. We have built up a solid Danish model for preventing radicalisation and extremism. We have come a very long way with broad cross-cutting cooperation between authorities, both locally and nationally. A central part of the prevention efforts is lifted by the municipalities' professionals and local police. This is done as part of the general crime prevention work under the SSP cooperation between schools, social services and police. Selected SSP staff have been trained to be aware of and also to be able to manage radicalisation on an equal footing with other types of risk behaviour. The same applies to police, social services and psychiatry staff and PSP cooperation. The prevention effort is therefore anchored in existing regulatory cooperation. This is how we have worked since the VK government came up with the first action plan for radicalisation back in 2009, and that is exactly what is the strength of our prevention efforts and which makes Denmark's efforts a special effort in the international context. In the country's 12 police circles regional networks or info houses have been established where local authorities can obtain advice on radicalisation and extremism. The Board of International Recruitment and Integration as a new board of my ministry provides advice at strategic level to all municipalities in relation to the organisation and organisation of interventions to prevent extremism. The board also carries out long-term counselling and cooperation programmes with selected municipalities experiencing particular problems with extremism. The Agency is responsible for the development of new approaches and methods in the prevention effort. In addition, the local collaboration is supported by teaching and advice provided by the Agency for International Recruitment and Integration in collaboration with PET. In January 2015, we concluded a broad pool agreement to strengthen efforts to combat radicalisation over a four-year period. A total of 60 million was set aside. kr. to 19 activities in three areas of action: firstly, an area of action on strengthening local action and training of professionals; secondly, action on new tools to prevent radicalisation; and thirdly, action on the mobilisation of civil society and local environments. In addition, funds have been set aside to evaluate the action so that we can learn more about what actually works. In order to strengthen the municipal effort, the Service Act has been amended with effect from 1 January of this year. This means that municipalities can now also take action against people over the age of 18 who are at risk of radicalisation or need help to leave extremist environments. In addition, the ambition is that approx. 3,000 professionals with close contact with citizens must be trained with knowledge of radicalisation and extremism. For example: teachers, housing social workers and employees in job centres, clubs and asylum centres must be able to assess signs of radicalisation, and they must know how to act if there is a case. Last year, we qualified around 1,400 employees, including primary school teachers and employees at secured institutions, so we are actually well on our way. As mentioned, the Rate Pool also contains a number of new tools to strengthen both prevention and exit assistance, and a number of initiatives aimed at involving civil society and local communities more in efforts to prevent radicalisation and extremism, as recommended by several sides. I would like to mention some of them here: we are setting up a national corps for mentors, parents' coaches, which the municipalities can draw on if there is an urgent need for action against a person who is at risk of radicalisation, or against a person who is already part of an extremist environment and who wants to leave it. The Mentor Corps will be operational this summer. In addition, we are developing a training package focusing on digital education and critical thinking to face up to the online radicalisation and extremist propaganda spread that is taking place on the Internet and on social media. We have also established an NGO-driven centre to support people who need support to leave the extremist environments. We have also set up a national hotline on radicalisation, where parents and relatives can get advice on how to get help if they are worried about a child or a relative. The phone line opened on February 1st this year. We are constantly trying to gain new knowledge in this area and have therefore launched a research project on the increasing contact between extremist environments and the gangs. Finally, I would like to mention that we are in the process of establishing a research network in collaboration with the Danish Institute for International Studies. The network will bring together Danish researchers in this field and promote knowledge sharing in order to support and qualify the prevention efforts and also, of course, possibly take new initiatives. In short, there is a lot going on in this area. But this is a difficult area. The challenges are constantly evolving and there is no time or opportunity for simple solutions. We must constantly have a critical look at our efforts. Therefore, I have decided to map out the municipalities' prevention efforts in order to get a comprehensive picture of how municipalities handle specific cases, what methods are used, etc. We need the mapping to see if there's anything we can do better, and I think there's definitely something there. And not least, we must also use it to share the good experiences that exist across the country. In addition, I have asked the Danish Agency for International Recruitment and Integration to prepare a new counselling offer for the municipalities, which will address both radicalisation and negative social control in a comprehensive offer. Finally, as a follow-up to the discussions in the Ministry of Churches, the Minister of Justice and I will convene a meeting of parties on the prevention of radicalisation, where we can also discuss whether further action should be taken. The government is clearly opposed to all forms of parallel societies which live by a standard set leading to isolation from the surrounding society. That is why we are also putting across a broad spectrum in order to prevent and counteract parallel societies. This is true of our efforts to prevent radicalisation and extremism, efforts towards mosques and darkened religious preachers, and efforts to prevent social control and honour-related conflicts. But this is certainly also true of labour market efforts. In the two and three-way negotiations now concluded, we have ensured that there is more job-oriented integration, where foreigners get closer contact with the Danish labour market and thus also get much closer to the Danish values, norms and the Danish language. In short, you get Denmark under your skin. Tomorrow we will have another ministerial meeting of the Church Ministry on religious ministers, and I look forward to a sensible agreement that we can continue to work on. With it in hand, we have given solid measures to address the radicalised environments. In conclusion, the government has decided that the government's priority statement for the stake pool negotiations now for 2017 will include a theme on precisely action against parallel societies, and I look forward to discussing this with the parties on 25 May, when a preliminary discussion of this will be convened.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518191322	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Then we start the debate and the rapporteur for the questioners must have the first word. It's sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518191335	In recent years, a great monster, the Islamic State, has grown out of another monster, al-Qaeda, who is going to harm us. It's part of their DNA. It is terrorism, it is blood, it is destruction both in the Islamic world but also in Denmark and other Western European countries. We have seen them carry out their atrocities in Syria, Iraq, Belgium, France, but also in Denmark. We must take this very seriously, especially because the monster unfortunately attracts a number of young people, including young people born and raised in the West, young people born and raised in Denmark. According to PET's assessment, there are about 100 who originate in Denmark, who are struggling with the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, and if only one of them returns and carries out a terrorist action, an atrocity, we have a huge problem. In other words, radicalisation and extremism are still a growing problem, a greater and greater challenge for our common security and our democratic society and values, and the time has come to evaluate the efforts made in the field of anti-radicalisation. I recognise that a great deal is happening in this area, and it is true that we are currently negotiating, but it is extremely important to keep up-to-date on whether we are doing the right thing, whether we can do more, whether there are new conditions that have arisen, which also need to be looked at. It is important that the things that are happening at the moment take place in a wider context and with greater coordination between the different interventions. All of Denmark at all levels must stand together in the fight against this monster. As a society, we must show that we can overcome extremism and anti-democratic forces. We must prevent young people from moving out of the wrong direction. They must feel that there is a consequence if they move along that path. This is among other things. That is why we are calling for a comprehensive, coherent and updated national action plan, and the aim of the action plan is first and foremost to strengthen prevention efforts towards those people who are at risk of becoming part of the extremist environments, to work to ensure that those who are already part of these environments leave them, to make it clear that extremist and fanatical actions have consequences. For example, if you go to Syria and fight with terrorist organisations, you should not come home and get a job offer and psychological conversations to prosecute. There is too little consistency and too many dialogue coffee meetings with people flirting with the ideology of people who have been involved in this ideology. There has to be more consistency. There must also be punishment in relation to those who have got it under their skin and have started to fight with those terrorist organisations. The aim of the penalty is to protect society as best as possible and as long as possible. It is important that future action is much more targeted at the main sources of some people being radicalised and becoming terrorists. We must minimise the influence of those sources which spread extremist and ideological propaganda and which spread hatred against our democratic community and freedom. This is true, for example. in relation to the challenges of extremist environments using the Internet to spread propaganda and recruit new supporters. It's one of the biggest sources. This applies to mosques, to hate preachers, to prisons, to vulnerable housing areas, to educational institutions, to gang environments. It is important that we constantly pay attention to new trends and develop and adapt the prevention efforts so that we can tackle the new challenges that we face, both in Denmark and internationally. If preventive work does not have the desired effect, it will have to be more rigorous and, if necessary, more stringent legislation. There is therefore a need to further develop prevention efforts and to launch new initiatives targeted at the current challenges, and we hope that this will be achieved through a comprehensive, coherent national action plan. We are several parties that have agreed on a proposal for adoption. It is the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Social Democrats, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. I will read out the proposal for adoption: Proposals for adoption The government is invited to present a comprehensive national action plan for anti-radicalisation in all parts of society and at all levels. This includes radicalisation in mosques, prisons, vulnerable residential areas, educational institutions, gang environments, the Internet, including social media. The Danish Parliament expresses its concern at the fact that there have been examples of municipalities cooperating with Islamists, as such cooperation can help build up the authority of Islamists rather than break it down. The government is therefore encouraged to develop new tools, including a guide to municipalities and public institutions on what can be done in the context of anti-radicalisation work to avoid cooperation with organisations and people who promote extremist and anti-democratic values. • V 68).
ParlaMint-DK_20160518192000	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen for Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518192009	Thank you. Let me make it quite clear: the rights of women and young people are more important to the social democracy than the right of extreme preachers to preach radicalised sermons. We want to go a long way towards freedom of expression, but when the choice is between protecting the right of women and children to a life without violence and social control in deeply radicalised environments, and when it comes to protecting the Danes from the cruel terror that we have seen too many times radicalised stand behind, we do not stand on the side of the radicalised. We defend the right of women and children to live without cultural and social compulsion. We defend our democracy and the security of our societies first and foremost. That is also why we are so concerned about taking action against the radicalised environments, no matter what kind of religion they are wrapped in. This is, regardless of whether it happens in the religious space, in residential areas, in schools, prisons or elsewhere. We fully agree that there is no rapid solution to combat radicalisation. It requires a whole palette of both hard and soft tools. The alternative to taking action with both law, control, punishment and prevention and exit initiatives will, in my view, be a fatal failure. We have already taken a number of soft and tough initiatives to prevent radicalisation. The action plan adopted in January last year across a very wide range of parties is worth mentioning. However, because radicalised environments are constantly evolving, efforts must do the same. Not least, we in the Social Democratic Party are concerned about the speed with which radicalisation takes place on the Internet, where propaganda is spreading to a very large extent. Let me make it clear that there are no misunderstandings: we Socialists are always concerned about the balance between legal certainty on the one hand and the security of the Danes on the other. Politically, we can discuss where the balance is at stake, but the basic position of the Socialist Group is quite clear: if we can protect the Danes from the atrocities we have seen in Paris or Brussels, for example, and if we can prevent terrorists from killing thousands of innocent people, as has happened and, unfortunately, as we have also seen with the attack in Copenhagen, we can prevent women and children and young people from being subjected to violence, then it is our duty to do so. A lost life is too much. An assault is too much. Just as we in the Social Democratic Party have always fought against the negative social heritage, we are also fighting against the negative cultural heritage. This requires that we interfere and not deny what is happening around our ears. We cannot solve the problem from political and Christiansborg alone. We need municipalities, communities, schools and institutions. Only if we stand together against radicalisation can we fight it. The Danish community, which has fought and won so many battles over time, can also be in the midst of religious dark vision. But we cannot escape the fact that the fight will only be won if we use both the hard and the soft instruments in the fight against radicalised forces. I have to say that we support the proposal for adoption which has been read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518192413	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Martin Henriksen for Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518192420	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Conservatives for raising the debate. This is a very relevant debate. Well, that's definitely what I'm talking about. I can also tell you now, as Mr. Naser Khader read that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal for adoption that has been put forward. We think there are some good tactics in what is pointing forward. What I want to say is a little bit about the ongoing negotiations on combating radicalisation, which are under the auspices of the Ministry of Church and Culture, and which are about combating radicalisation in a number of environments in Denmark. There we in the Danish People's Party attach importance to criminalising those parts of Islam that are a growing problem in Denmark. A little square, one might say that we should take the religion of law out of Islam. We will clearly criminalise religious education, guidance, advice and learning in stoning, violence against children and women, paedophilia, building up parallel legal systems, etc. We want to punish, expel and deprive citizenship of the imams that violate the law, and we have unfortunately seen examples of what was promoted in TV 2's documentary broadcast, which was very much about how radicalised some environments in Denmark are, that it has simply not been possible with the current legislation to come after the religious preachers who are in those mosques. This is highly questionable, and we hope that we can rectify it. This will be an important step in combating the radicalised groupings in Denmark. Then we also want a list of people who must be stopped at the border and who must be refused visas if they want to enter Denmark, the so-called hate preachers, although preachers of violence and terrorism may be a more appropriate term. We hope that we will soon be able to reach an agreement and then translate it into legislation, so that we can ensure that there are better tools for rejecting some of the people who want to enter Denmark, for example on the grounds that they are disturbing public order at home. Basically, this is about our having freedom of religion in Denmark, as outlined in section 67 of the Constitution, but we also have a limit on freedom of religion. Nothing must be done or taught that conflicts with morality or interferes with public order, and there is, of course, a paragraph there which deals with the fact that there are limits to freedom of religion. That part of the paragraph hasn't been translated yet. That is what we are working on, and we hope that we will soon be able to achieve a sensible result. Then, too, we in the Danish People's Party will deprive a number of religions of their recognition of their approval, so that they lose tax advantages and wedding competence. Associations in which violence and hatred are preached against Denmark, Danish values, democracy etc. must lose the subsidy and they must lose their tax advantages if they have such things, and we must of course also look at improvements in aid for young girls and boys who are subject to social control. This is some of the social control that comes from these very radicalised environments. Finally, in a new anti-radicalism plan, we must focus on radicalisation in the mosques, which is part of the negotiations in schools, in ghettos, in immigrant gangs, on the Internet, etc. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518192720	We also thank Mr. Martin Henriksen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth for the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518192732	Thanks for the lovely introduction. The radicalised environments in Denmark are like poison to our society. In those environments, people who actively oppose the society that we have built together for generations. It is people who preach terror, Sharia and stoning and who give dubious advice to weak souls who seek advice and guidance. They are people who contribute to parallel societies in society and who deliberately try to sidetrack people far away from what we call successful integration. This is a highly unsatisfactory development which will only get worse if we do not act now. That is why the Left is also very pleased that we have obtained a political majority, which smogs up the sleeves and tackles the new challenges that are pressing upon us. It is a political majority which has shown itself capable of action and is ready to take action where the shoe is pressed. It is so necessary to take a hard look when it comes to the groups we are talking about. At best, they are working against the society in which we all believe and, at worst, they pose a risk to the security of the country. Among the measures already taken by the government and the Left are the introduction of a public national punitive list of religious preachers who will be able to be refused entry to Denmark if they pose a threat to public order. We do so because we simply do not want to tolerate the spread of hate messages and call for things that speak directly against the democratic principles on which society is built. We have also proposed that the free schools that have a democratic deficit should be supervised more closely, because we simply do not want children in those schools to be affected and subjected to learning that directly contradicts the human vision that is in Denmark. In addition, we have introduced a large number of initiatives aimed at creating a more dynamic approach to radicalisation. There must be greater coherence between the efforts of the State and the municipality, and there must be cross-border cooperation between authorities, both locally and nationally. In addition, there are a number of other things such as a mentor's corps, an increased fight against online radicalisation, an ambition to upgrade more than 3,000 teachers and social workers, employees in job centres and others who need to have the necessary tools so that they can form an important bastion in the environment where they work. The initiatives, plans and ambitions show that the Left and the government are ready to give serious impetus to the process and turn up the fight against the radicalised groups operating in Denmark. The work is in full swing and we look forward to the government presenting further steps in this important fight against extremism.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518193029	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518193038	Thank you. Preventive initiatives are essential if we are to avoid young people being attracted to extremist environments and risk going to Syria as jihadists or committing terror in Denmark. If we are to avoid violence and terrorism, we need to understand the reasons behind the attractiveness of extremist environments on some young people. We must not understand to apologise for actions that cannot be excused but understand to combat extremism. It is absolutely fundamental for a democratic society like ours to be able to believe and think what you want, without having to fear for your own safety or for your family's safety. Unfortunately, however, with the terrorist attacks of recent years and the increase in the number of refugees, we have seen tensions in our society. Minorities of both Jewish, Muslim or other descent are more exposed to hate crimes. We have seen this in Copenhagen with the attack on the synagogue, as we have seen in Sweden and France with attacks on mosques and unaccompanied refugee children. These hate crimes need to be fought. Real prevention of extremism and radicalisation requires a solid social effort anchored in civil society. When the community fails, the risk of extremist groups picking up young people increases. Therefore, it is essential to ensure that our prisons are not used for recruitment for extreme preachers or other extremists. Instead, we should aim to create reintegration programmes for young people threatened by radicalisation, focusing on reintegration into jobs and education and mentoring programmes with a focus on anti-radicalisation. I find it frightening that, both in Denmark and elsewhere in Europe, we have seen a connection between the gang environment and extreme extremism. This connection needs to be buried, and action must be taken in residential areas, in prisons and through cooperation with PET, police and SSP. At the same time, I must say that I actually find it quite interesting to see that we are experiencing a great international interest in Denmark's experience in precisely the fight against extremism. The Aarhus model has proved to be an extremely successful and very, very inexpensive form of effort, i.e. the cooperation between Østjyllands Politiken and Aarhus Municipality. These good experiences must be disseminated and strengthened. Not least, the involvement of NGOs, local organisations, educational institutions and housing social efforts has proved to be extremely effective. The front fighters against radicalisation are, in fact, found in general residential areas. In areas such as Gellerup in Aarhus, there are fire souls who run clubs, and associations who actively fight the extreme forces. These are fire souls who are not paid and very, very rarely get a thank you. Frankly, their efforts should be much, much more often appreciated, both here in the Folketing and in the public debate. I know there are many out there in vulnerable residential areas who work day in and day out to fight extreme forces. I would therefore also like to take this opportunity today, when I stand here on the platform of the Danish Parliament, to thank them for their efforts and an effort which is quite, quite valuable. If we succeed in giving a young person a hope for a better future with a job and education, we have made an important effort to counteract radicalisation and extremism. I think it is important to stress clearly today that we should by no means tolerate any form of discrimination against minorities in Denmark, regardless of whether it is ethnic, religious or sexual minorities. That is why there is a need for active action in schools and in youth education to combat anti-Semitism, racism and discrimination. I think it is important that we deal with reality. There is an important debate that is linked to this, because it turns out, unfortunately, that we have a huge problem with excessive rents, too high housing prices, which lead to the poorest with the lowest incomes being lumped together in our cities. That is why we should also ensure that there are more cheap housing so that people can spread so that it will be possible to have a more dispersed building in our large cities. Unfortunately, the government and the Danish People's Party's withdrawal of the municipalities' freedom to make demands on new construction work so that 25% could be provided. • the possibility of creating more low-cost housing. Honestly, we have a situation in which a majority in here, a majority on the right, is pulling in a completely wrong and antisocial direction. Finally, I just want to make it clear that we must not bend our necks to extreme forces, but must stand firm to our democratic freedoms and values and actively use our institutions in the welfare society and our active civil society to fight the extreme forces. Against this background, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption from the SF, the Radicals, the Alternative and the Enhedslist: Proposals for adoption The government is invited to present a comprehensive national action plan for anti-radicalisation in all parts of society and at all levels, including radicalisation in mosques, prisons, vulnerable residential areas, educational institutions, gang environments, the Internet and on social media. In addition, the government should strengthen preventive social work and support for those who want to leave radicalised environments. The government is also encouraged to draw up a strategy to help municipalities establish more affordable housing and to launch new housing social initiatives so that in future we avoid the formation of new parallel societies with parallel legal systems and social control. • V 69).
ParlaMint-DK_20160518193738	Then we have it all in place, and there is even a brief comment from Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518193744	The rapporteur praised the Aarhus model for the clouds. What makes the Aarhus model more unique and different from the Odense model and the Copenhagen model? What is the difference between the Copenhagen model and the Odense model and the Aarhus model? What makes it unique and different from the other two models?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518193805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518193806	I think it is important to note that I neither criticise the Odense nor Copenhagen model. However, I pointed out that we have a situation in which what has happened in Aarhus is very, very well regarded, and we have seen that just how to intervene and use civil society throughout Aarhus, to use dialogue with the mosques, to use the welfare institutions and educational institutions actively, to use a cooperation between SSP and the municipality's employees to actively enter and combat radicalisation has been of great importance. After all, it has proved that it has not been able to stop all forms of radicalisation or prevent some from going, for example, to Syria, as jihadists. But a huge effort has been made to reduce the problems. That is why I am calling for us to strengthen such initiatives and increase our efforts in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518193907	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518193909	So everything the rapporteur mentions is also being done in Odense and Copenhagen. So there's nothing unique about the Aarhus model that you don't do anywhere else. But is it a success model, considering that out of the 100 who have gone down to Syria to fight with the Islamic State, are the 27 from East Jutland? So is it a success model?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518193937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518193938	Surely we should have no one to go down and fight with extremists in Syria, fight with Islamic State or Al-Nusra. That is why it is of course important to take action, and that is exactly what you have done with the Aarhus model. This has actually proved to be quite effective. Now I have the pleasure of being born and raised in Aarhus, and I am elected in the Østjyllands Storkreds, which is why I know exactly something about the huge work being done. I think it is worth noting that if we take something like Gellerup, for example, there are several clubs, such as an integrated club, which is doing huge work every day to pull young people out of extreme environments and actively combat extreme forces. Has it removed all problems? No, it hasn't. Has this proved effective? Yes, it has, and that is why we need to strengthen precisely those kinds of bets.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518194025	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518194038	First of all, thank you to the Conservative People's Party for asking the question. It is important that we discuss the challenges that exist with the radicalisation of people in our society. We are faced with an Islamist threat to democratic society, which is so serious that it can be said that it is a totalitarian threat in line with what Communism, fascism and Nazism were in the 20th century. It is the case that we in the Liberal Alliance want a large number of political initiatives to be taken to combat radicalisation. Fortunately, some negotiations are already taking place with the Minister for Church and Culture, in which we are still taking part, but which have already resulted in new rules on the supervision of free schools and new rules in the National Education Act. And we hope that there will be more results from there. For the Liberal Alliance, it is important to start looking at the way in which we treat the extreme environments in this country. We think we are far too lenient to allocate funds, for example. religions that promote radicalisation and extremism. We think you should slam the box in there, just as we think you should stop lending rooms to these organizations. And fortunately, we have come through with that. Then there is something else we have discussed in this Chamber before, namely the cash flows that come to extreme religions here from abroad. Fortunately, this is also something that needs to be looked at, but also something that concerns us. We also think it is very important to go in and look at the context that exists between radicalisation and extremism on the one hand and the harsh gang environment on the other. There are a number of problems there, compared to the same people who both become extremely politically-religious and become involved in this hard part of the criminal environment. I believe that we should do much harder to combat the biker and gang environment than we do today, and we look forward to the government getting started in the autumn, hopefully, to implement some of the biker and gang initiatives on which the four bourgeois parties voted in 2015, so that we can get more of these gang members locked up. Then they will certainly not be able to radicalise others in the period when they are there. We would also like to look at the particularly lenient rules of residence for religious ministers. We do not think there is any reason why religious preachers should have particularly lenient conditions of residence in relation to others. It would be good to put an end to this part too. I would say that we are behind this proposal for adoption, which Mr. Naser Khader read out on behalf of the five parties behind the proposal for adoption. It is particularly important to stress that we will put this in a more firm framework and ensure that we have an overview of the efforts we have so that we do not just jump, we could say from tue to tue or, in fact, from motions for resolutions to motions for resolutions, but that we coordinate our efforts. We think the government has taken a number of good initiatives and some of them we are still negotiating. But we think it is important to move forward, especially in relation to some of these things, to follow the money and then to the connection with the gangs. Finally, it is important for me to stress that when we want to combat Islamism and the extremism that lies in it, it is important to say at the same time that we are allying with ordinary moderate Muslims in our society, with whom we will, of course, stand shoulder to shoulder against the Islamists, against the extremists, for all of us citizens in this country, regardless of religious belief, whether you have one, must stand together against the extremists who are trying to destroy our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518194516	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mr. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518194524	In the alternative, we believe that cooperation to avoid radicalisation • cooperation among the political parties and in general in society • we cannot do strong enough. I mean, there is every reason to distance ourselves from extremism. There is every reason to distance ourselves from the extreme cultures that exist and the radicalisations that can happen, both nationally here in Denmark and internationally. That is why it is actually gratifying to hear today that we are all practically all in fact, I would say, all of us agree that something needs to be done. And if it had been in all places other than the Parliamentary Chamber, the nuances that have been in the debate today so far would be relatively small at least in relation to those that are most focused on, i.e. those that are radicalised; those that we consider a problem for the Danish values; those that we consider to be potentially liable to develop into security threats; and those that we call either terrorists or at least some that might make violence against the society that we defend in Denmark. There we are all very, very much in agreement that we must do something about that. A lot is already being done, and we can then compete over who will do the most, who will go the hardest to the bite, bite the most to the fuck. I really don't want to do that. Instead, I would say that we fully support the fact that we should not create ghetto-like conditions around Denmark; that we should not allow one to violate the rights that we have in Denmark; and that we should not back or in any way support the fact that there are some who oppress women or others. So we are very much in agreement that something needs to be done in this area. We would just like to see more attention being paid to this particular consensus among us that something needs to be done and then not focus so much on the nuances that exist and the places where we disagree. Because right now it is a great deal to tell the public that we have a problem and that a solution to this problem is simply to be as generalising or as rude in relation to the whole population as you can possibly be. There we see the great challenge, for if we are to reach those who have not radicalised yet, those who are not at present. is a security problem, so it requires that we create a situation in which the barrier to becoming a citizen of Denmark who contributes and participates in our democracy in a proper way and wants to learn both what we have in Denmark, to know and to contribute with what you yourself have from foreign cultures, becomes lower. Then it will require us to do so so that the barriers to joining the society we have here are reduced and that the desire to join our societies and the values we have is increased. There is therefore a problem if we marginalise and exclude groups in Denmark. And here I am not talking about those who are already what we could call impossible to reach, in other words those who have decided to choose a black and extremist path and who have decided to fight against the values we have. No, I'm talking about all those who aren't there yet. And there, as politicians, we have a very, very great responsibility to go out and create a framework, create successes, create bridges and ties with the people who live in ghettos or are outside the labour market or outside the social contexts and the cohesion we have in Denmark, and ensure that they can find a way in. We do, even though they seem very different from the culture we know, and even though they may be wearing clothes that we are not used to in Denmark and might seem weird, and which can in fact in the end create fear in us Danes because it is foreign. I also think it is important to say: let us recognise that fear is present, but let us not feed it. As far as I am concerned, I can wonder or become fearful, so that if I experience something that I don't know in advance, or if someone tells me something that I don't understand. At least I'll be insecure for a moment. Then I don't know what to say. I'll think about it. And there it is our job as politicians to understand what is really happening, what is really causing the problems. There we will see that extremism, when examined, actually often comes after a criminal career or an exclusion from a society. It doesn't have to be Denmark, and it's actually very rare Denmark, I think, that expels people. This is just something that happens if you are not really aware that this must not happen. So responsibility and blame are not Denmark's, but it is our responsibility that we constantly improve and constantly ensure that there is less breeding ground for people to become extreme in terms of taking religious views and in terms of generally becoming extremely criminal or in terms of generally undermining the rule of law we have. That is why I also think that we should focus in here on common solutions, on which we, as well as the proposals for adoption that have been made today, are very much in agreement, and then try to see whether we cannot help feeding the fears of the stranger and what we do not understand. Instead, let us agree that everything that we understand and that we want to safeguard, we want to offer in the best possible way to those who come to this country. And it is actually completely independent of what religion you have and what you look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195124	The rapporteur's speech has inspired a brief remark from Mrs Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195128	I was very pleased that the rapporteur started by rejecting radicalisation, which is why I would like to ask how this is related to the fact that the alternative recently chose to set up a parliamentary candidate who used to be spokesperson for the Grimhøjmosque.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195148	The Grimhøjmoskeen and the work of the Grimhøjmoskeen, as I know it, I can only strongly distance myself from it. The candidate who was nominated was, as I recall, a spokesman for three days until he chose to say no, because he could not reconcile himself with the values of the mosque. So I do not see anything that goes against my view that we must combat extremism and radicalisation, in other words by allowing someone who wants to get away from the radical environments, to go from door to door and try to convince people that they must distance themselves from, for example, ISIS, as they have done. Or by getting one hand out of the radical environments in which he has been and trying to become a part of democracy, not least when one is so much in the front line, which is actually not entirely without the risk of one's welfare from those environments, and saying: I want something else. So in every way I really think that extending our hand and allowing one to get out of those environments is exactly what we need to do. Then we can discuss whether it is allowed at all to have done something that we do not think is sensible. It is, of course, something about crime and punishment that can be a different debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195308	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195310	Well, I remember now that the candidate in question refused to reject statements about the stoning of women and calls for children to be beaten, and that brings me to my question. Because does the rapporteur think that we can put an end to the extreme imams that we are familiar with keeping women and children in a cultural grip by accepting their garments, as I think the rapporteur said? Is that what guarantees these children's and women's and young people's freedoms by, in other words, by accepting that the Imams dress differently? Does the rapporteur himself believe that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195355	I am not quite sure that I fully understand the question, but otherwise I will have to get a follow-up in one way or another. I cannot in any way support the fact that there are some who must be held down or suppressed in Denmark. I think I have said that very, very clearly. The fact that we should give imams or people with opinions other than those that the rapporteur and I might agree on is contrary to the freedom of expression and the rights that I and the alternative very much uphold. But we would like to take a very, very clear stand against everything that is called extremism and radicalisation. We simply believe that the easiest way to do this, even in the long term, is precisely to provide information, including to those who are currently doing so. is right on the edge. There we need to find a way to include them in society, but not by accepting rabid attitudes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195446	It inspired two more brief remarks, and the first one is from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195451	Thank you. In fact, I think that the Social Democrat rapporteur had a very interesting angle, which I would like to ask a little more about. It is very generous of the rapporteur to say that one would like to accept a former spokesman from the Grimhøjmoskeen as long as he has turned his back on the environment, especially in view of the fact that he has only been a spokesman for a short time. Does this mean that if the current spokesman for the Grimhøjmosque left the environment and claimed he would turn his back on it, he would also be a worthy candidate for the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195522	Neither I nor anyone else in the political leadership here at Christiansborg has decided whether the person from Aarhus was a worthy candidate for the alternative. The person from the Grimhøjmoskeen, whom I do not even know the name of today, I cannot say would be a worthy candidate for the alternative. I don't know who he is. The opinions expressed by the person concerned are in no way in keeping with the views of the alternative. Therefore, there should be some degree of creativity and development that I cannot imagine for him to be a candidate for the Alternative. I wouldn't be able to support it immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195603	I would therefore like to ask, with all due respect, another way: is there an external limit to how extremely one can have acted and expressed oneself and then be accepted by the alternative? So, in short, we accept anyone who has done and said anything, just say that now you wipe the board clean and start fresh? Or would that be a rather naive approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195635	I am in the alternative because what I mean is entirely in line with the values on which the alternative is based and the policy that we have. Anyone who has to run for the alternative must be able to reflect in them, and everyone who is in the alternative must be able to see him as representatives of them. That is why I could imagine that there were a great many people who would not be chosen to be able to run for the alternative, and who could also say, just by taking part in the debates we have in the alternative, that, in this case, you do not fit in at all, precisely if it is extreme or oppressive attitudes. So the clearest answer I can give to it is: yes, there are definite limits to who can be in the alternative, and we must agree with our values. What we are discussing today is extremism and radicalisation, and none of what is really in harmony with the values of the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195724	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195726	I think the alternative has such a theoretical approach to Islamism and jihadism. In relation to the spokesperson I know, it is true that he has been the spokesman for the Grimhøjmosque for 3 days, but he has been in that mosque for many years. It's been his primary mosque, along with the father, so the Grimhøjmosque is part of his starting point. So when you say he's only been a spokesperson for three days, that doesn't mean he's only had relations with the mosque for three days. That is the starting point, and that is why he found it difficult to distance himself from stoning, and that is something that cannot be defended. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that he has been there for many years and not just three days?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195822	In fact, I do not know, but I assume that it is quite correct when the rapporteur tells us. What I know is that I and the Alternative are completely opposed to stoning and other medieval approaches. What I could imagine the man mentioned above has been out in is some theoretical explanation of why it is that in some cultures and within some religions there are writings that tell of something that others are following today, even though it is true, very many years ago. I do not have to judge whether they have explained it quite well, but I can tell you that this is in no way in keeping with the views of the alternative. Stoning cannot be justified or the subject of any debate as to whether it can be permitted in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195911	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195912	I have discussed this with the person concerned and stressed that there is no such thing as "men" and "maybe" and that, in theory, stoning can be advocated. Either you are too stoning or you are against it, and it is extremely important to emphasise it. I would like to ask a question which one of the rapporteur's colleagues, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist, has been out saying recently, that those imams and Islamists also have some resources. What resources do they have that we can benefit from in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518195952	Now I don't know which imams are being talked about. If it is extremist and very radical imams or clergymen of any religion who preach such a thing, then it is not resources that we will see as positive resources in the alternative. So what kind of people should be I don't know. If it is generally spokesmen for opinions that we do not sympathize with in the alternative, then it may well be that there is something in which we can see sense and which one might call a resource. But when it comes to those we are talking about today, that is, the radicalised and extreme imams, we see no resources in the statements they make.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518200036	Thank you, sir. René Gade. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518200045	Thank you, thank you. It was not quite the same welcome as the previous rapporteur, but I live with that, Mr President. President. In September 2014, the government then presented a comprehensive action plan on the prevention of radicalisation and extremism, and it was about strengthening the efforts of local authorities and on prevention, exit strategies, international cooperation to prevent extremism, the involvement of civil society and parents, and the strengthening of SSP cooperation, i.e. cooperation between police, school and social authorities. And these were also some of the initiatives and plans that Mr. Marcus Knuth read. I am truly pleased that we share the credit for these things, and I sense that we have a real common agenda here. However, many of the initiatives in this plan are still being implemented, and the Minister explained some of them. Regardless of this, the Radical Left, like a majority in the Folketing, wants to build on the plan to launch initiatives that can help ensure that more and especially young people do not see radicalisation as a way to go or an identity to take on, and here in the Folketing we have an important role to play. Firstly, we can help to ensure that Muslims are properly spoken about throughout Danish society. 99.9% Of the Muslims, just as the Danes only want to fight terror, so it is only water on the mill of terrorists if you take Islam as an income for terror. We must fight violence and oppression everywhere, but we must never marginalise young Muslims simply because they are Muslims. Both because it's stupid and because it makes Daesh's recruitment easier. We must never follow the terrorists' script. So we have to help to say no to hate statements against Muslims. The problem is extremism and radicalisation, not Islam or Muslims. Secondly, it is really, really important for the municipalities to get further into the process of making plans against radicalisation. Today, only half of the municipalities have real plans, but many others have other initiatives. In the Radical Left, we believe that such plans will help all municipalities to see more people moving into radicalised environments. But it is perhaps even more important to help the municipalities to support those people who want out of those environments. So my call to the municipalities and to the work we are going to do in here will be: let us adopt plans to radicalise as soon as possible and put an end to the radicalised environments before they grow and then have a hand ready for anyone who wants out of radicalisation, but also out of oppression and away from social control of any kind. We owe it to us to give full support to those who have already taken the fight, and also to those who are in the process of continuing to take it. The emancipation struggle has been going on for years, and there are plenty of cool girls and boys and women and men with Muslim backgrounds out there who need us to stand by them, and we must help the municipalities with everything we can. The Minister has announced a survey of the efforts of the municipalities, and a meeting has also been convened as early as next week. This is a good start, and we would very much like to continue along that path and look forward to it. But we must also be even better at sharing knowledge much more, as I actually thought the Minister presented excellently. You can see at the City of Copenhagen, and others also mentioned other municipal examples. There are mentoring, exits, a 24-hour hotline and further training of professional staff. The TrygFonden recently published a fairly comprehensive research report on how to strengthen local resistance to radicalisation, and this can be learned from both the municipalities and we here in the Danish Parliament. Fortunately, the fund now also travels the country with the knowledge and arranges citizens' meetings • respect for it. Because the more people can engage locally in the work of preventing radicalisation, the better it works, and that is where we want to go. So the Radical Left is looking forward to helping all the forces in the municipalities and civil society across the Folketing and among the many with Muslim backgrounds even more to strengthen efforts to combat extremism, prevent radicalisation, counteract social control and promote equality and equal rights in the environments where oppression is taking place today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518200629	Thank you very much to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. It was a pleasure to listen to the speech. There are no more brief comments. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark of the SF. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518200643	Thank you. We must combat radicalisation and extremism. This is because it poses a threat to our society, which we need to take seriously. That is also why we support the creation of a national action plan for anti-radicalisation in all parts of society and at all levels. For radicalisation is a threat. Don't be afraid to talk about it, don't be afraid to admit it, don't be afraid to try to fight it. Time has shown that initiatives are needed against radicalisation, whether in mosques, in prisons, in vulnerable residential areas, educational institutions or in gang environments. That is why we would also like to commend the proposers for focusing on combating radicalisation. When we put forward a proposal for adoption that goes beyond the majority's adoption, it is because we believe that more than just a plan of action is needed. For us, radicalisation often starts in the parallel societies that exist around Denmark. The much-discussed documentary • The mosques behind the veil was a good example of how parallel legal systems and social control exist to a large extent in some parts of Denmark. We must combat this, we must address it, and we must launch concrete initiatives against it. How, then, can parallel societies be put to good use? Yeah, I think you actually do that with an active housing policy. In fact, I believe that it is many years of failed housing policy under changing governments, without pointing the finger at any particular one, which means that we are faced with many of the problems that exist today, also in relation to radicalisation. We therefore call on the government to draw up a strategy to help municipalities establish more affordable housing and to launch new housing social initiatives so that in the future we avoid the formation of parallel societies. That sounds great, but we would also like to make some concrete proposals on how to do it. This can be done by ensuring better opportunities for urban renewal and the demolition of the ghettos. For example, you have. used in Aarhus. This means that if a residential area e.g. I know this from my own municipality, so you can open it up by maybe building a road sometimes and then doing some places where you can have some common activities for the people who live there, so open it up for the rest of the city. You can make sure that at least 25%. of all new construction becomes general housing, so we get a mixed population in the places where construction is being built. I think that will certainly help to combat radicalisation. Better opportunities to build general housing on attractive land could be ensured by providing a temporary grant from the Folketing to the municipalities. There are a lot of municipalities that want to. There are very many municipalities that think that one of the most important things in this world is an active housing policy because they can see how much it affects social policy. They just need help with that. That is the one part that we lack in the proposal for adoption and which I hope we can continue to work on. The second part is a strategy to combat social control, which we also fear can lead to radicalisation, because some young people simply feel marginalised. There are environments that are fortunately still away immediately in few places, but they exist where it is quite normal that one will decide which girlfriends girls and boys get; where one will decide exactly how girls and boys should behave; where equality is a city of Russia; and where one exercises violence and coercion and control. We must fight that too. This can be done with a number of measures, but some of what I can see lies right in front of them are reinforced exit programmes; these are more places in women's crisis centres; and these are housing for integration. Today, it is the case that there are some women and, as such, men who experience and want to escape social control, but who then have to live close to the family from which they have fled. We must help them better on their way away, and that is why we are also proposing in our proposal for adoption that the focus should be on helping people out of radicalisation, in other words out of the environments that radicalise, that is. better exit programs. This is missing from the proposal for adoption that has been put forward, and we would very much like to continue to do so. Because, yes, we must go hard to radicalisation with rapid counter-radicalisation. That is also why we have been involved in an agreement to strengthen the supervision of free schools. That is why we have been involved in a broad agreement to strengthen supervision of how people's education crowns are being used. This is because we want to make sure that tax dollars are used to promote democracy and child welfare. They should not be used to promote anti-democracy and oppression. So, yes, we need both tough and soft measures, and that is why we propose this in our proposal for adoption. But overall, it is a quite sensible step to have a plan of action for anti-radicalisation, and we would like to commend the proposers for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518201159	Thank you very much, sir. Jacob Mark. There are no brief comments. The alleraller's last in this round is so the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and she is also very welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518201215	Well, it's just a pleasure tonight. Thank you. Let me make it clear once again that the government is looking very seriously at the threat posed by radicalised and extremist environments. And if you listen to the debate today, that is something we are in complete agreement on. Then there may be some nuances in how we are going to attack the issue, but I have to say that I think it has been a really fine debate, but also a very serious debate, and I think that has actually dressed us all up. We will stubbornly defend our democracy and our values. We must prevent radicalisation and combat violent extremism. We must put an end to the traveling preachers of hatred that we see affect others to a showdown of Danish values and democratic principles. And then I think that some of what has been unifying is that we all want a response to the trends we see, with negative social control and parallel societies. But what remains is that there are no snatching solutions and that we must always be clear that the challenges that we face are constantly evolving and that, therefore, there must also always be a glance at how the methods we use must be able to change over time. That is why we must, of course, take a critical look at the action that is being taken and we must look at whether more needs to be done. That's one of them. Therefore, as I heard the radical rapporteur, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, mention that there has just been another meeting here around the pool of rates, on which I hope to see a very broad agreement, and on which we will, of course, set aside the means to put an end to the parallel societies that we see. Now several proposals for adoption have been put forward, but I can say that the adoption that we support from the government is actually very ambitious. But it is also a text that embraces widely, and I hope and expect, of course, that all the parties that are now behind this proposal for adoption will make a very active contribution to the follow-up. Having said that, in today's debate I have actually listened to the fact that those who do not support the proposal for adoption that has been put forward here do not in any way withdraw from the effort, and I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518201541	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no brief comments to be made to the Minister. According to our tradition, Mr President, we have the opportunity to give the floor to the rapporteur of the questioners. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518201559	Thank you. I'll be brief. I would like to thank all parties for this, I think, important debate. Thank you to the parties that support our proposal for adoption. It is extremely important that we stick to a national coherent strategy in this important area. I recognise that there is no list of results, as the Minister has mentioned. What is important is that we are constantly updated in this area and it might be that we should have such a debate a few times a year, just as we should be completely up to date with all the initiatives and things that are happening in this area. Because it is rapidly evolving and it is important that we take the threat very seriously. So thank you for the debate and thank you for tonight.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518201653	No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Thursday 19 May 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160518201711	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 19 May 2016, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. It has been a long debate for the Foreign Affairs and Integration rapporteurs, I know that. So I would like to thank everyone for today's work in the service of the people's regime.
