ParlaMint-DK_20161108130017	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Question No. F 8 (In addition to the then Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussens's promise from 1 April 2008 to establish a close contact with the Royal House to ensure that the Crown Prince as a member of the IOC would never speak contrary to government policy, please inform the government whether the Crown Prince's vote in the IOC on the exclusion of Russia from the Olympic Games in Rio was in fact in line with government policy, including whether the government had informed the Crown Prince prior to the vote about the government's position, and whether the Government considers it appropriate that the Crown Prince publicly works for the exact opposite of government official policy). Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others: Question No. F 9 (What is the government's view that the Chinese state is allegedly carrying out the killing of prisoners of conscience, such as imprisoned members of the religious Falun Gong movement, whose organs then go to highly-paying foreign and Chinese patients, and how does the government intend to raise this issue with the Chinese government?). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Question No. F 10 (Will the Minister explain whether the municipalities comply with the intentions and legislation of the Children's Reform and what the Minister will do to municipalities that do not comply with the reform?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Eva Flyvholm (EL), Mette Reissmann (S), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Ida Auken (RV) and Jacob Mark (SF) have informed me that they want to withdraw the following question: Will the Minister explain why the government will cut the SU grant and remove the sixth SU year, and what consequences such a reduction can have for students' living conditions and conducting studies, inequality in the education system and our level of education in Denmark? F1). The question has now been dropped. I should like to point out that it is on the agenda today for item 7 on the question No. F 2 shows that any vote will be postponed until Thursday 10 November 2016. Due to the postponement of the meeting's starting time on Thursday, 10 November 2016 until 10 a.m. I have postponed a possible vote on F 2 until Tuesday 15 November 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108130154	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108130209	Thank you. After all, it is the first question hour of the parliamentary year and, as a new thing, it has been decided that all party leaders have the same speaking time. I understand that the purpose is to bring us closer to the hour of the bell, which is in the name of Question Time. I will endeavour also to maintain the original idea of Question Time: you ask and I do what I can to answer. I can't wait! In the current political negotiations we are there where we usually are at this time of year; there is discussion of finance law. In addition to the government's well-drafted financial bill and our ambitious overall plan, two parties in the opposition have also chosen to present a plan covering next year. That's the alternative. Thank you, sir. Mr Uffe Elbæk, and that is the Radicals, thank you to Mr Uffe Elbæk. Morten Østergaard. I'm happy with qualified counter-play. But first of all, I am delighted that they are just saying, as it is, some frozen positions are about to thaw up a bit now that we have chosen to take one thing at a time. It is a thaw which I hope will, of course, last, but which in the first place also leads to results now being achieved. The first partial agreement is on the research reserve, where the government, together with all the parties of the Folketing, among others. has focused on the Danish food industries and on supporting research on the welfare, health and education of the future, an agreement on the payment of the rate pool, where we among other things. set aside money for a strengthened cancer effort and to support that fewer are socially vulnerable, more become part of the working community. The aim is to land a comprehensive financial agreement within a week or so. After all, today is an important day for elections to the congregation councils, and in several places they can do so in order without a fight, without a ballot. It certainly looks somewhat different when they wake up across the Atlantic. The Americans are going to the polls. We have observed the American election campaign, and the result is obviously important not only for themselves but also for the rest of us. The United States is one of Denmark's closest allies, the cornerstone of Europe's security, the world's largest economy, an important trading partner. President Obama has helped to secure major international results.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... With his optimistic, tolerant and open world and human vision, he is a model not only for many Americans but also for many people outside the United States. It is really, really important for Denmark, who is president of the world's most powerful country. The American election campaign has been tough, it has revealed a deep division among the American population. Whoever is elected will be a major task for a future president to reunite the American people, and I would like to express today, on American election day, the hope that the next President of the United States will continue to see Europe as its most important partner in terms of security and the economy. We need a US that takes leadership, supports NATO, we need US leadership in the fight against terrorism, and we need a strong US that believes in free trade. On the Danish side, whatever the result, we will build on our close alliance with the United States. I would like to make that clear here today on American election day. And by the way, I'm looking forward to Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108130605	Thank you. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. I must point out that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party, is not taking part in today's Question Time. The questioner and Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Following are two follow-up questions for which the questioner and the Prime Minister each have one minute's speaking time. It is first Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108130637	Thank you. I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation of the Prime Minister's comments on the American elections, which I fully endorse. The Prime Minister is certainly right that this is what fills the agenda today. After all, I think that some of what is left of us, having been watching the American election campaign, is a great sadness at the division and hardness with which the Americans have been campaigning. It is a division which will, of course, make it difficult to work together in the future, as we have already seen some trends. When I choose to take it into Question Time today, it is because we have built Denmark on the opposite. We have built our country on the ability to cooperate also with people with whom we disagree across the political centre. The opposition and changing governments have taken responsibility for Denmark, even when it has required sword battles, and when it has required both pragmatism and great goodwill to find each other. That is why, of course, I think the current political situation is interesting from a historical point of view. I am of the opinion that we are once again faced with challenges which require broad political cooperation and the ability to find each other. There has been much discussion about the government's now misplaced 2025 plan and the government's basis. I would like to come a little closer to one of the very topical discussions, namely the whole discussion of housing taxation. I understand from the government that it is not expected to be possible to reach an agreement on both the assessment system and the subsequent tax model. Of course, I regret this, because I agree with what the government said weeks ago, namely that the two things must be seen under one. In order not to create a lot of insecurity for the individual homeowner, family and for the Danish economy under one, I would really like to hear the Prime Minister today, if we cannot make an agreement that those parties who take responsibility for creating a new property assessment system, what I hope we can get in place quickly, will also subsequently find each other in a forward-looking housing taxation model that will both ensure that we can compensate for the problems that may arise with a new assessment system, but which will also create the long-term security and security we need in such an important area as the housing owners' economy and the accompanying taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108130859	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108130902	Thank you. I very much agree with the description of the strengths of Danish society: will for broad cooperation, will for compromises. This is also the line my own party followed while we were in opposition, and we also have the quiet expectation of the parties currently in opposition that they are doing the same. That is why, of course, I am a little sad that we have had to reorganise the political autumn in the light of the way in which the government's overall plan for a stronger Denmark was taken down. I hope, of course, that on top of the financial law agreement we can re-establish the space that allows us to take a position on some of Denmark's longer-term challenges as well. It is clear that housing taxation and the housing assessment system are linked. Now that we are starting to have a very broad agreement on the housing assessment system and in the wake of it coming back to the issue of housing taxation, it is of course because it will cost money to phase in new assessments in combination with security for homeowners. It must be taken away from a room for manoeuvre which is not very large, at least in the 2020 perspective. That's why there's this connection. With regard to the issue, it seems obvious to me that parties that agree to create a new housing assessment system also express an ambition to seek agreement on a subsequent taxation system at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108131045	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108131047	That's positive, that's a good start. I think we should try to get it a step closer and already give the Danes certainty that there will be a broad agreement in the area of housing taxation. Speaking of the American election, one of the very distinguished features of the Danish folk regime and, by the way, that of the two parties over there, who stand like us right now and duel, is the ability to take responsibility, even if you cannot have all your wishes fulfilled. And we have a strong tradition of Denmark breaking only temporarily and few times to be able to make broad political agreements, which we can also say to the Danes will stand after a election that stands firm, which creates continuity and stability. It is important about the housing economy. I am pleased with the Prime Minister's immediate statement, but should we not go any further and give each other today a handshake that the agreement on housing taxation in the future must, of course, be based on the political centre, and that requires, at least, that the major parties take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108131153	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108131156	Well, I have to logically arrest that there are both large and small parties on both sides of the middle. I am expressing what I think is a natural ambition, and I am pleased that we share it, because then it also paints a picture that there is a likelihood that it can be fulfilled. If I still express this small reservation that I am not saying in advance that I will guarantee it or that certain parties have to be included, then it is only linked to the reservation that when you have to discuss housing taxes and the government has put forward a proposal where we have reserved 24 billion. kr., so we can phase a new rating system in combination with security for the individual home owner. It is then a bill that we have counted at 24 billion. kr. If you want to give the property owners less security, the bill can be reduced, but otherwise it will be a bill of 24 billion. kr., and if so, you have to agree on how to finance it. So it's a logical reservation that I'm taking. However, just as I was happy back in 2010 and 2011 that the major social reforms we made around unemployment benefits and early retirement were anchored across the middle, so they were also after a parliamentary election, we will also forward-lookingly emphasise that a housing tax agreement is anchored across the middle, so you have a guarantee that it will also stand for a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108131321	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108131323	Yeah, but we don't need that reservation because we can give each other a hand at wanting to make a broad deal in this area now. In other words, it is always the government's privilege and responsibility to organize the work, but I am not saying too much when I say that we have not actually hurried out this task, because it is now some time ago that we started the discussion on both a new property assessment system and the need for a corresponding new tax agreement in this area. So it hasn't been that long. It is clear that what many of us are concerned about is whether we can end up in the situation that a single party, which is not very representative of the entire Danish population, can be allowed to decide what a government can and cannot do in Denmark. I would warn against that. It must, of course, be the case that the mandates can be brought into play and that broad political agreements can be drawn up. And that is why I would like to make it quite clear at the end that it is the Social Democrats' belief that a new property assessment system must be followed by an agreement on future housing taxation. We need security and stability in this area and, of course, it requires a broad political agreement and, in our view, it should be concluded before we go on Christmas holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108131434	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108131436	Thank you. However, I welcome the fact that the Social Democratic Party here indicates that we are so much in the work clothes, both in terms of an assessment system and a subsequent debate on a housing tax system. It is true that this is a hanging party, that is why we are currently using the 2011 assessments as a starting point. It was a few years ago, so it is a task that has remained unresolved for a number of years and which was not handled under the last government either. We have now taken responsibility for this; we have put forward a proposal for a housing assessment system, and I would be very pleased if we had an agreement on this in a relatively short space of time. And it is necessary to follow up a housing tax agreement, and it is also natural to have the ambition that it should be broad. I just have to insist that the housing tax agreement should be seen in the context of what that is in Danish economy, not only in 2017, but also for a number of years to come. And we have put forward a very concrete proposal that shows that we can responsibly postpone the balancing point in the Danish economy from 2020 to 2025, thereby releasing a room for manoeuvre that is greater than it would otherwise be and which allows us to reserve 24 billion. kr. to the landlords. And if there is an ambition to go into it, I would like to welcome it with great satisfaction.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108131557	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108131602	Thank you. Thank you to the Prime Minister for the introduction and also for the elegant emphasis that there are church elections in Denmark today. I thought that was a good thing to mention. It has, of course, received less coverage than the American presidential election, it seems to be possible to say without understatement. On the other hand, the intense coverage of the US presidential elections may make it possible for the Danes to get a slightly more nuanced picture of American politics than what was just presented from up here a moment ago, especially in relation to having to try to distance the American political system from the Danish one. There's something more going on in the United States, I think, than just the fight between these two presidential candidates. After all, there are also states which have to have elections on a number of political issues. That's the way it is. What I would like to take forward today to the Prime Minister is that it is now the first Question Time indeed, as the Prime Minister said. This means that this is also the first time we have a debate after the British result in the June referendum, on 23 June, when they chose to resign from the European Union. What I would like to ask the Prime Minister is that when the European Union has laid the negotiating position with Britain and has said that if Britain is to have a free trade agreement with the European Union, in other words free trade with the rest of us, among other things. We here in Denmark, then, demand that the British accept the free movement of citizens, that is, immigration, from the EU countries, including from the Eastern European countries, which were perhaps one of the reasons why they actually voted as they did in June. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if there is any reasonableness in that. Why not do it on the Danish side, on the EU side, that they say to the British: of course we would like to have a free trade agreement with you, even if we know in advance that you will of course have to have some restrictions, that is, some opportunities to regulate immigration to your country. Because that was the focal point of the British response, in terms of whether or not they should become the European Union. So the prerequisite for free trade on the part of the British is that they have restrictions, i.e. self-determination, in relation to immigration. Why are we not prepared to give the British that concession?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108131817	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108131821	First of all, may I say very briefly, with respect for speaking time, that I share the view that there is a need for a nuance in American politics, as I also hope, moreover, that the media's massive interest in the American elections is a premonition of a similar high level of commitment when elections take place in other countries which are of great importance to Denmark. There are, for example: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). So it will be interesting to follow the media coverage of the German elections next year. So to the question. Now Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl that the EU has established its negotiating position. We can discuss this, because we are in a situation where Britain has not yet defined its negotiating position, and that is where it starts. I myself had the pleasure of meeting the British Prime Minister at Marienborg a few weeks ago and, without referring in detail, I have to say that it was not quite clear what Britain's ambition was for the future in relation to the European Union, and that is what we are waiting for. What we have said quite equally from the 27 remaining countries is that we want a peaceful process, a peaceful divorce, but we also want an agreement that is balanced, in other words where rights and obligations are respected. That's the natural starting point. And then it's really hard to get on with this case until Britain has chosen to activate this famous Article 50, which the Prime Minister has indicated will happen by the end of March next year at the latest. For me, it is natural that rights and duties should be respected. Given Britain's decision, it is now also a question of defending Danish interests. And we want to have a free trade agreement with Britain that allows future exports, but we also want it to be balanced so that you do not win, you can say, special competitive advantages in Britain by being only part of this, you might say, overall package that balances what is equal competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108132046	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108132047	I think there is a lot of logic in waiting for the British initiative, of course there is. But I have to say that not many days have passed since the British vote until the 27 countries of the European Union came together and told the British that the prerequisite for a free trade agreement is for the British to accept what are called the four freedoms, including the free movement of persons. So it can be said that the European Union informed the British just a few days after the British vote that the free movement of persons was an essential condition for the creation of a free trade agreement and that the European Union has not waited for the British position, because the European Union has told the British in advance on what basis a possible agreement could be reached. And that is what I would like to challenge the Prime Minister on: why is it that the prerequisite for making a free trade agreement with Great Britain is that I believe Denmark has an interest in being made, and I recognise that it requires a lot of negotiations and that it is hammery and all there is that you tell the British to accept free immigration, among other things. from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, an immigration which was, of course, exactly at the centre of the vote they had this summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108132209	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108132210	An agreement has to be balanced. The single market rests not only on the freedom of goods and services but also on people, and we do not yet know what exactly it is for a link with the single market that Britain wants. They're gonna have to play that out. I hope they want someone as close to the single market as possible and then it has to be balanced. It is also from a Danish perspective. If, for example, we do not know what to do. It is not just about goods, but it may also be about what I know about Danish wind turbine manufacturers supplying hardware into Britain, and that it needs to be followed up with experts and craftsmen who need free access to install these turbines and monitor them and monitor them. And if our food companies install manufacturing facilities there, something similar applies. That is why it has to be said that in a modern form of trade it is important for people to be able to keep up too. At any rate, it cannot be the case that we only go one way, that is to say we have a country that has full and free access to our market if we do not have the same access balancedly. Ideally, I did not want Brexit, which is why I would like Britain to be fully involved in the single market as far as it can now, when you step out of EU cooperation, but it is based on their initiative. What we are saying, and which I am also saying, is in Denmark's interest, because it is therefore the interests we are defending here, is that it needs to be balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108132339	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108132340	Of course it has to be balanced, but what I'm asking is where the balance is. Because it is easy to make agreements that a fitter from Vestas in connection with the setting up of some wind turbines should be allowed to travel to Britain and that he or she is there for some time. That is something that can be negotiated, but that is not what lies in the four freedoms. What lies in freedom of movement within the Union is, of course, the fact that, despite the rules of a country, the Court of Justice has had to define a right to cross national borders, and the British have said that they will leave the European Union. This is largely due to the fact that it was also expressed this summer, it is certainly our interpretation of it, and others may have other interpretations ■ that they today do not have control over immigration to their country. I think that is also the impression that you get if you move around in Britain, in other words that there are quite a lot of Britons who think that that is enough and that they have to vote out of the European Union in order to get some more control over these things themselves. Then I say that since we have an interest in strong free trade with Britain and we know that this is a focal point for many Britons, a solution must also be found somewhere where we come to meet the British, so that on the one hand they have greater control over immigration to their country, and on the other hand there is the free trade we want with them. And there I simply cannot get into my head why the European Union has told the British in advance: just know that we will only make a free trade agreement with you if you accept, moreover, the EU rules on the free movement of persons, as they are expressed through both rules and legal arrangements and cases. It is incomprehensible to me that negotiations with the British should be started on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108132513	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108132515	I don't know how much closer we're getting to it today. Because it can be said that my starting point is that it is the United Kingdom that has chosen to leave cooperation and that it is therefore the United Kingdom that has to start to settle its positions. With all due respect, I am not in the world to look after British interests, but I am set in the world to look after Danish, and the best way to do that is to wait for Britain to show its cards, so to speak, and then we can go ahead. What needs to be the starting point is that this divorce, even if it has to be peaceful, must also be proper. We cannot accept that a country that stands outside can be said to have conditions that are better than those that others have that are inside. I mean, rights and duties have to go together. Then I agree that it should be balanced, but the first condition is that Britain should do its job, and we are now waiting for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108132621	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108132627	Thank you. I am not going to go around the American elections any more than to say that I share the Prime Minister's happy prospect of knowing a lot about the German elections too. I think that is a very good point, which I would like to repeat. But what I would like to talk about is the ceiling on cash benefits introduced by the Prime Minister by a majority in this House, namely the ceiling on how much cash benefits and other social benefits can be obtained. That's the thing about how it has to pay off to work. I think we're about to go through that. In addition, however, the Ministry of Employment has also estimated that about three-quarters of those affected by the ceiling on cash benefits are not ready for work at all. These are about 77 000 people who not only have the problem of being unemployed but who may also have cancer, chronic illness or mental illness, which means that they cannot work. It's really hard for me to understand why they need to be motivated to work, so I'd like to dwell on it a little bit. Recently we read about Lene in Politiken. She's 32 years old, she's got a 5-year-old daughter, and she's been on cash benefits for 11 years. She has sent in the vicinity of 400-500 applications, she has been in both long-term internship, in clarification and in activation, i.e. throughout that rumble. She doesn't want early retirement, she wants a job. It's just that she's not just available. Lene also has cerebral palsy, she's a spastic. She drives around in an electric scooter, she is poorly walking, often has cramps, can't stand up for long periods of time and has pain in her knees and hold her back. Now Lene and her daughter are hit by the cash aid ceiling. It costs them more than 2.100 kroner. net per month and that amount has to be taken out of an already tight budget. The baroque is, of course, that the municipality has assessed Lene to be exempt from the 225-hour rule because she has a disability and is not ready for work at all. Nevertheless, she is hit by the ceiling on cash benefits to motivate her to the work she is unable to take. The simple question to the Prime Minister is: What is the wisdom of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108132848	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108132850	Thank you. After all, a question has now been announced, which will take place later today, about the precise ceiling on cash aid, and I think that this will be a good opportunity to go around the debate wider than we can in the context of Question Time here. However, when asked about the wisdom of the ceiling on cash benefits, the wisdom is that we think, from a reasonable point of view, that there should be a difference between working and not doing so. That is why we have set a ceiling on how much you can get in the combination of cash benefits and a number of other benefits, in order to increase what is called the difference amount. There are some figures out today, I see, which show that certain type examples now have 3,500 kr. more a month than they wanted on cash benefits. That is the purpose we want to promote, also in view of the fact that when we look at what kind of people are on cash benefits, we can see that this is a reflection of the fact that we also have major integration challenges. I mean, there's a significant overweight of cash aid couples with different ethnic backgrounds. That is why we want to pursue a policy in which, with a combination of setting a ceiling and so much like giving some tax reliefs, it is among other things. Therefore, in our plan we have proposed a job prize • moving as many people as possible out of the cash benefits. I fully admit that there are people on cash benefits who have been on cash benefits for far too long, and that is why there is an urgent need for • and it will also be easier if we get the number down • that the municipalities use, so to speak, all the tools in social policy and employment policy to take care of those people who are not immediately available to the labour market and who, in fact, should ideally not be on cash benefits at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108133045	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108133048	Well, when you hear that answer, excuse me, it sounds like Lene, as I described here, is such an isolated case. I would remind you once again that what we are talking about here is the element of the cash benefits reform, which is that three-quarters are not ready for work at all. That's why I'd like to tell you about Morten. He's a single father, he's 30 years old, the Ekstra Bladet has told me about him. He's been supporting himself pretty much his whole life. He's been a driver and a truck driver. A few years ago, unfortunately, his only 22-month-old daughter died, and today he has been diagnosed with mental stress and epilepsy. If he is faced with many things at once or deadlines, he gets dizzy, loses control of his legs. In general, his doctor says that he should not work because it can worsen his stress and trigger more epileptic seizures. Now Morten and his 7-year-old daughter are so hit by the cash aid ceiling, and Morten is looking for work. The ceiling on cash benefits therefore forces people who can become more ill from going to work to go out and find a job for economic reasons. Is that what's meant to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108133205	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108133207	It is quite clear to me that the Enhedslisten is not in favour of the ceiling on cash benefits and thus, of course, shares yes, I cannot quite find out whether you share views with the rest of the opposition. It is not quite clear to me whether it will be the case that if there is a change in Danish politics, the Enhedslisten has promised that the ceiling for cash benefits will be torn down again or not? It's not clear to me. I have explained what is the philosophy behind the cash aid ceiling. Does this mean that I do not recognise that there are people in a difficult situation? No, it doesn't mean that. I know it's not fun to have to live off a cash aid, I know that. And I know that it is becoming more difficult for it to be subject to a ceiling. I know that too. Can you live on a cash aid with the ceiling too? Yes, you can. So we can vouch for that. The best and most effective social policy tool we can use at all is to move people away from support. That is the purpose. Moreover, it will also allow over time that the resources that are then available and now I am not talking about transfers, now I am also talking about human resources in municipal administrations can be targeted at the people who are most in need. And that is the balance that lies in the policy that we have achieved by a majority in the Folketing and which it is quite unclear at the moment if there is any change at all if there is at some point to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108133348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108133350	I sometimes think that other people who look into this feel that there must be some reverb or something in that cheese bell that surrounds Christiansborg. Because you can talk about the philosophy behind it and that you really want people to work instead of on public support. I don't think there's a party in here who disagrees with that. Well, we all want people to get a job and be able to get a job. The reality is that right now with the government's cash benefits ceiling there are people with disabilities for whom there are no jobs and who heart wants one, but who cannot get it. They get cut down on their performance so that they can be motivated to find the job that is not there. Or the benefits will be reduced to people who aren't ready to take a job at all. Or the benefits are reduced to people who are ill and can even become more ill by getting the work that the government would like to motivate them to take. Then it is fine that one can say: Well, the philosophy behind it is that it should pay off to work. And you can say enough times that sick people should not be in the cash assistance system. But they are. Three-quarters of those affected by the ceiling are not ready for work. So what is it you have to motivate these people to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108133506	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108133508	It's such an ordinary trick to say that we can't disagree on something. No, it may be that we do not disagree that people should not be on cash benefits and that more people should be in employment, but what does it do if we do not do something about it? And what we can only see is that, despite the fact that we have had an increase in employment in this way, and despite the fact that we also have the phenomenon that a number of Eastern Europeans without formal qualifications are getting employment in Denmark, we have not had the basket broken in the field of cash aid. And we have too many married couples, not least with other ethnic backgrounds, on cash aid. It is also a reality that we must do something about, and that is what we are doing about. I fully agree with that ceiling, and I also say that I know it is not easy to live on cash benefits. But I am also saying, and we are so obviously divided, that our assessment is that you can live on cash aid, including with the ceiling we have introduced. We can stand by that. At the same time, it serves the real purpose, namely that those who are on the edge of the labour market and who cannot get a job with a high salary will find that the economic progress of taking such a job will be significant. And it's with that ambition to move people out of cash aid. We also see at the moment that the number of Danes on public support is falling. The fact that we do not need to spend money on transfers gives rise to the good spiral, and then we can spend the money on something different and more forward-looking: education, research or reducing taxes on people with small incomes, so that we have a positive spiral.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108133646	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108133656	Thank you. After all, we are fully engaged in financial law negotiations and in a process which, I hope, will end up with some very good agreements. However, there are other policies outside of it, including those which have to take place under the financial regulations. Among other things: yesterday we were presented with a public service report which discusses different scenarios for how it could look like in the future. For us in the Liberal Alliance, it is important that we have a debate on the licence and the really enforced means that the licence is. If you are a man who earns about 150 kroner. in the hour, the license is so high today, because it is taxed money that you have to pay with that you are actually forced to work up to a whole week a year to finance Denmark's Radio, now to take the largest part of it. What's the PM's view of this? Is it time that we were modernised, not least in relation to the real media consumption of young people in today's Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108133807	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108133809	Thank you. This is a discussion we welcome, and that is also why the Minister for Culture yesterday responded to the report and the various scenarios that came, which is the result of a work which was initiated under the previous government and which shows, it can be said, a range of different possible developments, to which all sorts of others could be added. Now there is plenty of time, because there is a media agreement that runs with 2018 and in good time before then we must have found some solutions. We are very aware that the licence is high. We are also generally concerned that it should be cheaper to be a Dane, and there is certainly also a candidate. The reflection on this is of course the cost side of Denmark's Radio, which is also visible, and this is a discussion we would like to enter into. And, as I said, the government is going to present a plan over the winter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108133923	Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108133926	I would just like to thank you for that, i.e. the open approach to it. The reality is, of course, that not least the young generation, but it spreads up through the generations too, largely defines their own media consumption and does so in a completely different way than we have seen in the past. Some use Netflix, others subscribe to Spotify, others have third and fourth choices, some subscribe to a newspaper. It is not the case that today we do not have a range of media that actually manages to provide public service. It may then be that some think it is at one angle in Politiken and another in Berlingske Tidende. But it is not the case that it is something that has to do with the world of reality, to imagine that because you shave the licence, our democracy falls together. So thank you for that element too. Can the Prime Minister go into a little more detail on a period of time? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134030	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134032	Thank you. Now we got that report yesterday, and of course the government wants to study it. Then the ambition is, as I said before, that the government will announce over the winter. After all, there is plenty of time in the sense that the media agreement that applies runs with 2018, and I foresee a good debate. I think that is also necessary before you just jump to conclusions. We want better public service. We will be discussing how the balance between Denmark's Radio and the other media is in a world that is changing. After all, the effect or value of some of the media support we have given is changing over time. I mean, we're gonna make it, for example. If we give zero VAT to newspaper and newspaper, we can say that the taxpayer-paid contribution into the media landscape will be smaller, and if the licence is only permanent then some balances will be shifted. You gotta take some time for this debate. We don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134145	No! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134148	Thank you. I really look forward to that too, and we will have the discussion extended to the definition of when to pay the licence. You could say that if you turned it into a subscription scheme, which is one of the ideas we are working on, it was also quite clear that it is absurd that today we have a system in which just having potential access to the medium makes you, if you are to be a law-abiding citizen, be forced to pay this, in fact, extremely high subscription, as it is, or license, as it is. I mean, you really can't, if you live in a modern world and you have what's just like a cell phone, you can't refuse to pay. These are the rules today, and I think that is very provocative of an ever-increasing proportion of the population, and I understand that. There is a democratic problem here. So I do not really have any further follow-up questions, but I acknowledge that this is a debate that we can look forward to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134250	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134256	Well, there were no further questions, so now we won back a bit of the time, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134259	Then all is forgiven so far. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134308	From license, we're going to Turkey. We're getting around in questioning today, and that's fine. For good reasons, the alternative is very, very serious about what is happening in Turkey at the moment. In other words, it can almost be said that Turkey is moving towards a real dictatorship. The figures available show that over 100,000 public employees have been released, 186 media have been banned, 140 journalists have been imprisoned and nearly 4,000 judges and prosecutors have been fired. Most recently, we have seen that 12 members of the parliament of the opposition party HDP have been arrested. I know very well that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has met with the Turkish ambassador and commended it but could the Prime Minister share his thoughts on how Denmark views developments in Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134410	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134412	Yeah, I can do that. Because what we see in Turkey quite topically is very, very worrying in every way. And that is also the reason why the Foreign Minister, to whom the questioner also referred, had yesterday called the Turkish ambassador for an interview in order to express in clear language that we are deeply concerned about the human rights situation in Turkey. And that is particularly the fact that we have quite currently seen these police actions against leading politicians from the Turkish-Currid party HDP with the detention of the party's two presidents. So it's worrying. After all, it has to be said that in the aftermath of the failed coup attempt there has been a situation in which the human rights situation in Turkey in general has been broken, and in which the elected representative, moreover, has just to be remembered the President in the wake of this has tightened up the human rights situation. It is important that it is addressed, and the Foreign Minister has done so yesterday, and we do so in the European perspective as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134537	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134538	What we are genuinely concerned about in the alternative is that it is not enough to call the ambassador for a serious interview. The European Union must act at a level quite different from that of the quotation marks, just a conversation with the respective ambassadors around Europe. What is to be feared is that the situation which started the civil war in Syria, of which we all know the consequences, can take place to some extent in Turkey in the same way, with all the profound and profound consequences that will result from it. So does the government have any idea that the European Union should simply stop cooperating with Turkey, including the end of the agreement with Turkey in the area of refugees, given the situation we are in today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134642	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134645	No, we have no thoughts about stopping cooperation with Turkey. Indeed, despite the worrying situation I have expressed, it remains a reality that Turkey is Turkey and has the geographical position of Turkey, and therefore also the corridor for a potentially very large flow of refugees, but also migrants. And when we look at the current figures for Denmark, there will probably be more Afghans than there will be Syrians. That is why we need to maintain it and, moreover, to maintain Turkey's commitments in the agreement we have concluded with them, which is, of course, a large part of the answer to the fact that we now have a completely different refugee situation in Europe and therefore also in Denmark than we had last year, when 100 people arrived a day, where there are less than 100 people a week today. The situation in the real world is therefore that there is a need to maintain cooperation with Turkey on that dimension, while at the same time condemning, by the way, we can say, and pleading, the progress we see taking place in the field of human rights. We also need continued cooperation with Turkey, not least with regard to finding a permanent solution in relation to Syria. Moreover, we have a dimension in Turkish-European cooperation, in which Turkey is therefore obliged to show some progress if you want extra rights, among other things. in relation to visas and other matters. Well, that's the balance we have to find, and if mr. Uffe Elbæk has some other useful ones, you might say, how we can change the situation, and I will of course be glad to hear about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134837	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134838	There is no doubt that we are going to pursue it across the parties, I believe, because, as I said, the situation is as serious as it is. Erdogan almost boasts that he is referred to as a dictator in the Western media. Well, he has no problem with that. And in that light, it is deeply problematic with the agreements that we then may have and may even want to make with them. But we'll get back to that. We are moving on to the last question, the third question, and the Prime Minister is used to it coming from the members of the Alternative. We have some Members who are mainly concerned with the whole green agenda. Many people simply cannot understand why the Danish Government does not support the European Commission's ambition to limit pesticide emissions in this case in what are called environmental focus areas, i.e. farmers' environmental focus areas. One question from one of the Members is: is the Prime Minister prepared to take responsibility for the consequences that increased consumption of pesticides can have on nature, the environment and public health? There is therefore a surprise that the government does not support the European Commission's ambition to limit the use of pesticides.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134957	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108134959	The very question was whether I was prepared to take responsibility, and I am. Well, I can answer yes to that, no matter what I'm asked if it relates to taking responsibility for government policy. Yeah, I'd like that. With regard to the details behind the question, I must refer to the Minister for the Environment. However, I can say in general terms that we want pesticides to be used in a well thought-out, proper way, which also takes account of our groundwater. And that is the reason for the pesticide action plans we have made in Denmark. We are also very concerned that when we impose restrictions on Danish agriculture, it happens in a balanced way, where we stand guard that our agriculture has, it can be said, the same competitive power as comparable countries. That is why, as a starting point, we are in favour of the fact that this dimension, which is about the environment, is regulated by the European Union, in other words, in order to ensure equal competition between countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108135105	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108135117	It's not cool not knowing what you're talking about. As a political leader of the Radical Left, I have little experience of this, but the quotation is now also President Obamas, who said it as a commentary on the election campaign to be his successor who played out. It was in May that he said it, and it almost seemed as if he was looking for the good Danish word which does not exist in English, namely formation, because the American election campaign has been very much marked by, it might be said, the opposite, and at least the fact and actual and factual knowledge have come into the background of postulates about soon said anything. If you're trying to understand what's going on in the world, it's probably important to stick to the fact that education is a key to it... not only to what we're going to live on, but also how we're going to live together... if we're not going to become a polarised society. President Obama quite rightly, when he was elected eight years ago, represented the hope of a bright future. Now I don't want to compare Obama with the Prime Minister, but there was a hint of a hope that we would discuss Denmark's future when we had a question time before we went on summer holidays. For then such an idea had emerged that this autumn it was all about the survival of the government, and the Prime Minister replied in this Chamber that it was certainly not the government's future; it was Denmark's future that it was about. That is why the appetite was very great on the radical side. Now we understand that Denmark's future is paused a little while we clarify the government's future. I also understand that you would like to talk a little more about the elephant in space. So it was not today, I can see on the issues back and forth. I don't know if you've eaten an elephant. But at any rate, we are now debating finance law, and there are 1.6 billion. kr. In the negotiating reserve, we can see. I would just like to say from the radical side that we are very willing to go in and take responsibility for a financial law if we could convince the government to stop saving on education. We have skilled, critical, talented, creative Danish young people because we have invested in their education, and my question to the Prime Minister is: Is the government of the view that the Danish young people are too skilled, too
ParlaMint-DK_20161108135329	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108135330	Now we came all the way around, and then I thought, "What was the real question?" It was: Are Danish young people too skilled? I can say absolutely no to that. Danish youths are good. If they're for it, you can never be. You can never get too good. It now still makes it all the more relevant to have a discussion on how we spend our money. What are the educational objectives we have? How do we get some more young people to take a vocational education rather than an academic education? Have we set some standards on how many people should have a PhD that is set inappropriately in relation to future labour market needs, etc.? So we can continue to have that discussion. Do you need resources to translate that discussion into action? Yeah, you have to. That's one of them. The reason why, in the plan that we have put forward and to which we certainly have an ambition to return when the budget law is in place, we have proposed that all immediate savings by adjusting the SU system, as we propose, should be moved to a pool of competences which can therefore be used specifically to increase competences. Morten Østergaard himself was a minister and one cut 1 billion. kr. of the S.U. to use the money for tax reliefs and such things in connection with a growth package. So here we have the idea that by adjusting a little on the SU we can free up a billion dollars to give Denmark a boost of competence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108135503	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108135504	After all, my question went to the Finance Act. For what the government has again put forward is, after all, permanent austerity in the Danish education system with new estimates. In the case of vocational training, which the Prime Minister speaks very warmly about, it must be said that the government has in any case put forward a budget proposal for savings. I have spent a great deal of time visiting a number of youth education institutions in particular. After all, they are tense because the government thought it was more important to invest in a police settlement than in the education of young people, and certainly not at that time thought that money could be found elsewhere. If we just take such an ordinary VUC, an average adult education centre in Denmark, they must by 2020, if government plans keep water, save 17%. of their budget. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is this: do you really believe from the government that they will be able to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108135604	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108135605	I firmly believe that the fact that the education sector is subject to the same efficiency requirements as the rest of the state can go hand in hand with other ambitions. It is such a firm development pressure that is on the sector. Moreover, there is room for constant political decisions and political priorities to re-enter the sector. So the picture that's drawn from just cutting down isn't a true picture. It is an image that must be kept up against me, for example. We have said here that we have an ambition to generate a billion into a pool of competences, just as we also, if there are more people looking for one particular form of education, ensure that taximeters and money follow the activity. So that picture that now just has to be cut down isn't fair. By the way, I'd like to sign for mr. Morten Østergaard's ambition to participate and take responsibility, and I shall pass on that, because we would like to see it, and I would also like to see some of the decisions on adjustments to old reforms that are needed in the wake of a financial agreement, such as those on the adjustment of old reforms, which are needed if we are to have a room for manoeuvre. can be invested in research, skills raising and other activities. And I suppose it's natural that we come up with each of our priorities, but the agenda about the Danes being skilled and being more innovative, being more creative, I kind of share.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108135737	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108135739	Yes, but the Prime Minister is apparently not willing to put action behind the words. What I started by saying was that we were willing to go into a serious financial bill discussion if the government was willing to take the savings off the table and there is loose money. It is not the case that in order to afford a cancer package or to afford a safety pool or more officers, or whatever you want to afford, you have to cut back on education, because that is why it is ultimately a question of whether you are willing to give priority. We do not know what lies ahead of us in negotiations, we have many thoughts that we could raise the retirement age and thus afford to invest in education. But what needs to be done right now is the Finance Act, and there I would just like to ask the Prime Minister something: is there any good news on the way to the education sector, or can they expect the bad news that came when the government put forward its financial bill, that there will just be new years for the savings, to become the reality that will be, because then they will have to find out how they can save. Then they have to do without the teachers, and then the results have to be there, and that, of course, affects the quality of the education our children receive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108135846	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108135847	I am not in a position today to explain what the outcome of the discussions on the Finance Act currently under way will be. I cannot know that, because then the negotiations would be meaningless. So the result will be a final product of the wishes of the parties. And when sir... Morten Østergaard now says that one is willing to discuss with the government, if the government wants to do something quite specific, it sounded almost like an echo of something I have heard before, namely a deadlock in the way that if we mean something quite specific, one would like to talk to us, but if we do not mean something quite definite, one would not talk to us. I hope it didn't have to be taken down like that. I have observed that the Radical Left has an ambition that more resources should be found overall for education, research, such investment. I have also taken down the fact that the Radical Left is generally open to the idea of creating some room for manoeuvre if you are going to spend the money, and if you have the opportunity, we would also like to have the opportunity to verify and make use of it. The questioner's and my party alone are not enough in terms of voting.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140003	Thank you. Then we've got Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140008	Thank you. I very much agree with the Prime Minister in the opening remarks about the American elections, namely that it is of great importance to us, but also that we will soon be looking forward to talking about something a little different when we hear something from the great country to the west. Then we are some who hope and eagerly look forward to the Republicans finding a slightly different • some will say better, that I will be a candidate next time. The loss of Reagan has never been greater than it has been these days, the good man who, in his tireless struggle, let the rogues of freedom ring over the Communist dictatorships of the East. But that was when the world was simpler. We miss him. So why don't we get back to what this is about? The Prime Minister is probably familiar with the views of the Conservative People's Party on housing taxation. At any rate, we have done a great deal to avoid hiding them, and I would like to hear whether perhaps the Prime Minister can say today, on behalf of the government, whether, now that we are in the middle of negotiations on a new assessment system, about a new housing tax system, which is, to put it mildly, complex, is not the time to give citizens the confidence that housing taxes will certainly not rise next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140141	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140145	Thank you for that and thank you for this committed eulogy for a former American President, whom I myself appreciated very much. It is true that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen to conceal the Conservative People's Party's position on the housing tax system, and there is no reason to regret this either. It would have been worse if it had been the other way around. So, of course, I have taken note of that too. I have also taken note of the wish in the ongoing negotiations to unlock the ground blame in 2017 and also noted that it is a wish that is backed up elsewhere in the parties with which we are negotiating, and I am not going to anticipate the outcome of the negotiations or make them either easier or harder to grant advance concessions. So I think I should confine myself to saying that this seems to be a naturally conceived desire for the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140245	Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140246	Thank you. I had considered whether I should come up with two follow-up questions, but I thought that it would be almost too difficult on today's occasion, so I'd rather throw myself over something else There will be a day after this, and there will be a day after the budget negotiations. After all, in its 2025 plan, which we consider to be very good on a long-term basis, the government has made a number of proposals on immigration policy, and that is something we are looking forward to, at least hopefully, getting even more on the table when we conclude the financial law negotiations at some point. We have a few things that we think could be interesting. We currently have a number of citizens living in Denmark who are not able to get rid of people we should be able to get rid of. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister will help us to speed up and speed up the diplomatic guarantees that need to be implemented so that we can send those citizens back where they come from. It's not fair for them to sit in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140349	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140350	It is quite true that in this multiannual perspective for Denmark that we have presented, we have also presented, I think, it is under eight headings, a number of foreign policy changes and tightenings. We are also fully aware that it is not necessarily exhaustive and that there may be other wishes. We look forward to a real debate on this when the Finance Act is in place. Not least the whole perspective, which is very, very difficult to understand for all of us, that we have citizens in our society whom we have clearly indicated do not want to have and which the authorities have said must not be here and which is still here for one reason, the other or the third. To the limits of all our obligations, we would like to find out what we can do more about, and that is probably something different in different situations. Some of this is clearly about getting countries that I had just said to export that kind of people to Denmark and Europe to take on more responsibility. There's something we can do for ourselves. We can do something in a European context, and I am very, very pleased that in Europe we have now begun to come to a new understanding that all this migratory pressure should not just be solved by distributing people among us, but among other things. by committing African countries. So that's part of the answer. We have tried to give something else here in Parliament with a specific legislative proposal on our expulsion rules, so that we have to demonstrate, unless it is certainly contrary to our conventions, a wording which we also tabled when we were in government last but which was unfortunately backed up by the previous government. So we're open to anything that can promote this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140542	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140544	Thank you. With that answer, it's just before I feel covered in relation to the next one, because there are more approaches to this. An asylum reform could also be discussed. Right now it is x number of people who can search themselves to Denmark if they have enough money. But who is left behind? Perhaps these are some of the ones we would like to deal with. Could we at some point get to the point where people are told that if we come here and seek asylum, we are helped back to a refugee camp in the vicinity, and then as a society we are committed to receiving a number of people a year that Danish society can promise, can carry, can integrate, and where we also take into account those who do not have thousands of dollars to pay to traffickers themselves? However, I will look forward to further discussions on this when we once come across the other side of a financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140641	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140643	There is no doubt that it is immensely dilemmaous that we have had these currents up through Europe now that the term should not be misunderstood: self-visited refugees and migrants, while at the same time we have people sitting in camps who may in fact have a greater or at least equal protection requirement, and something needs to be done about that. This requires decisions that go beyond the borders of the country and where we are then challenged by the fact that we have a reservation in relation to the European Union, so that we do not participate fully in that part of the policy formulation at all. However, I note, also with the latest German reports here over the last few days, that there is a different perspective than there was a year ago. It would be a prospect if we could cut off the spontaneous roads, get Europe's external borders under control and otherwise meet its humanitarian commitments. I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140758	Thank you. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140805	The debate is open, and it is first Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108140829	Confidence between industry and consumers is alpha and omega. Danish consumers have a high degree of confidence in business, both physically and on the Internet, and that is the confidence that is basically acquired. Advertising has come to stay and, of course, business needs to be able to market itself. I would like to stress that social democracy has nothing against advertising as long as the framework for advertising supports confidence between consumers and trade. There is no contradiction between consumer interest and business, and it is quite wrong to say that more burdens for business are equal to more consumer protection. On the contrary, it is a common matter to improve and protect consumer confidence, because it is absolutely essential that consumers are safe and secure when they act. The Social Democratic Party believes that it is good to adjust the Marketing Act, but the bill mainly envisages legislative changes. We believe that it is a slightly too low level of ambition that is contained in the proposal. Improvements for consumers and professions are small. The former S-led government set up a working group to make recommendations for amendments to the Marketing Act. At the time of the transition to the current government, an addition to the mandate was drafted which stressed that no ideas should be presented that went beyond what the EU had decided and that no rules should be proposed that were a burden on business. It is a pity and also a little unambitious, because there is a need for adjustments and intervention when marketing changes as much character as it does in these years, when everyone goes against digital advertising. We therefore propose from the Socialist side that a number of sub-topics should be dealt with and unfolded in committee. Problem No. 1: Spam is extremely annoying and time-consuming. It is now being allowed to send more spam to consumers. We must not continue to send consumers without authorization, but the narrow path of advertising is now being extended to, if not a motorway, at least a highway. An example: If you have purchased a flat screen, the business today must send you related advertisements. In the future, the store must send you advertisements about everything related to your home dog food, bikes, wetsuits, diapers, hair gel, oatmeal, etc. The Consumer Council is receiving more and more complaints about spam and therefore the legislation should not allow more spam, but rather ensure that we combat it. Problem No. 2 is business to business ads. We have received a joint consultation response from DI, Danish Occupation, the Crafts Council, Creativity & Communication and Danske Media, from both the seller and the buyer, and they attach great importance to the fact that the provision about business two business ads is changed, so it is the right person in the company who receives targeted advertising emails. I believe that we should respond to their call and get this part addressed so that we avoid that employees in a company receive advertising emails that they need to spend time sending on their own system, because the legislation restricts the direct route. Problem No. 3 is online competitions. We believe that it is rather unambitious that the government should not take the bull by the horns and get rid of it, that consumers should say yes to advertising e-mails in order to be allowed to take part in a competition on the Internet. Problem No. 4: Discount schemes for particular consumer groups must today be separated into shops. In the future, this rule will be removed, which means that consumers will not be given this information and that they will be able to find it harder to opt out of shops offering discounts to special groups. The rule is good as it is today, and the Social Democrats prefer to maintain the rule. Social democracy supports all improvements in confidence between consumers and business and wants respectful relations for both sides. We are in favour of modernising the Marketing Act and hope that the work of the committee can make the bill land in the right place.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108141237	Thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108141249	First of all, I would like to say that we then share some of the concerns that come from the Socialist rapporteur. We would also like to help see if there are some places where you can organise Danish legislation better in relation to spam and business to business and all these things. What we saw at the same time is that we have to accept that many of the challenges we have with this place where people buy something over the net, etc. and participate in competitions and everything else is that it is very often difficult to see where they come from. Often it is from foreign servers, from abroad at all, and this means that in principle we can adopt quite a lot of legislation in Denmark, but if it comes from other countries, possibly outside the EU, where it is outside EU law, which otherwise gives us common rules on a large number of the elements, then it will still mean that consumers will be a little fussy and a little confused. And you can understand that, because it is very annoying that, because you choose to buy something, you have to be concerned with all sorts of other so-called really good offers. In general, however, we in the Danish People's Party are actually pleased that after several years we can now look forward to at least putting together legislation that is better in this area, compared with the marketing legislation we have had so far, which we can see has often been marked by a patchy fight and therefore also by a more rigid legislation, where some things were explicitly speaking against each other in consumer terms. After all, the previous government set up the committee, as was said earlier, and the current one has then chosen to follow it up, but with the clarifications that were also mentioned by the Social Democrat rapporteur we of course also recognise them. We would very much like the Danish People's Party to have a high degree of minimum implementation of these EU standards in Denmark. We will only support them if they are more beneficial to Danish consumers and Danish interests in addition than the minimum. But overall, we do think that the bill here contains a lot of good premises. We think it is good that we should have the law reviewed and a clearer and simplified law, but we would of course also like to take part in looking at some of the examples raised by the Social Democratic Party. And, of course, I hope that we will have those questions put to us in committee. At present, however, we are in favour of the draft law and look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108141515	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108141524	Marketing is important. It is important for companies to have the opportunity to present their products, services and services to potential customers. However, it is also important for us, as consumers, to have access to information on what can be bought. And there must also be confidence that the information presented is in order. That is why we are regulating this, so that we are not faced with misleading marketing as a consumer. Because if you decorate yourself with borrowed feathers and try to sell something that does not live up to the promises, then you cheat consumers, but you also gain a competitive advantage over the companies that behave properly. Therefore, it makes good sense that we have some clear rules for marketing and that, as I said, helps to ensure orderly conditions for both companies and consumers. And since 2005, when the last major merger of the Marketing Act took place, I believe that no fewer than nine amendments to the Marketing Act have been made, among others. as a result of a number of changes to some of the EU directives that are behind our consumer protection. We can also see that there are a few places where we may not be fully in line with the directives. In any case, some flags have been raised, and of course we need to get this under control. As one of my colleagues said earlier, there has been a marketing committee set up by the previous government to look at how we could ensure how the Marketing Act was more consolidated and reflected the reality in which we really are and not just emerged as a juxtaposition of various mergers. And therefore it makes very good sense that there will be a new structure, a new structure. It should provide more clarity. As I said, it is on the basis of the recommendations that the Minister for Industry and Growth has put forward the bill, and we of course welcome that from the Left. We think it makes sense that we are looking at whether our interpretation of the directives is now completely on track. If there are things that we can relax for the benefit of both consumers and businesses, we think it makes real sense to do so. And it has to be said that the draft law, among other things. reduces the administrative burden on businesses by 10.5 million. kr. So there are things we clean up, and that makes sense. Of course, there are also some things that may be a little more controversial, for example. I should also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I just have to say, for the sake of good order, that perhaps I think it is a little narrowly interpreted as it is today, and that is also what the Committee on Marketing was proposing to change. For example, if you have bought a car and provided your email address and thus accepted that you must be contacted per. e-mail for advertising purposes, then you can be informed about a similar product, so you can be informed that a new car, a new car brand, has now arrived, and then you can buy it. But you cannot, as a car salesman, be allowed to send information that now winter is at the door and there is an offer on winter tyres. It is somewhat more narrow than what our neighbouring countries interpret, and that is just the change. And it is important to make it clear: you must have actively given your email address. With regard to the descriptions of unwanted spam, I can say that in this way we fully agree that it must, of course, be combated. However, when you as a consumer have given your consent, the framework must be a little wider, and that of course also requires a clear opportunity to withdraw from if you receive something you do not want, and that must, of course, be respected. A slightly more freer framework is also provided for businessmen to be able to contact each other. In relation to the issue raised by Mrs Karin Gaardsted, I must say that it is not the case that because one company has had contact with another company, it can mass-round the employees of the company in question; it must be in addition to a direct relationship. And I also think that business will be very self-regulating about this. I don't think you get a lot of customers out of spaming potential buyers. Finally, a directive on the possibility for the consumer Ombudsman to carry out investigations is being followed up so that there is a clear legal basis for this. So basically, we think it is a good idea to have the legislation put together and refined so that it is more coherent and we do not have such a thing as fragments of a whole series of changes over the last 10-11 years. There are administrative reliefs for business. So basically, we think it is a quite sensible legislative proposal. There are things we would, of course, like to help clarify during the committee work, but we are positive. And I should like to say that the same applies to the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108142028	Thank you. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108142038	The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal as it stands, and we cannot do so because, as we see it, it involves a number of elements which weaken the protection of consumers in relation to aggressive marketing by industry. We quite share the criticisms raised by the consumer ombudsman and the Consumer Council, which can be read in the consultation answers. This concerns, among other things: on some of the issues which previous rapporteurs have also raised, that is to say on this so-called 'unsolicited approach to consumers', because the proposal opens up greater opportunities to bombard consumers with marketing in the mailbox. And if you are familiar with developments over recent years and cannot say that there has been less or less of this kind of approach, then it is probably not the right way to go to expand business opportunities to send us this type of offer, which for many is a great source of irritation; you can, if you want new winter tires, search for information about them yourself. It is also a question of abolishing this autonomous provision on promotional measures such as: In this connection, I should like to say that the Commission is not in a position to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but rather to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and ConsumerProtection , as well as the Committee on the Committee on theEnvironment , Public Health and Consumer Protection and ConsumerProtection. And there are a number of other elements that I think are reflected in the very thorough and fine consultation responses from consumer organisations. I think it is a pity that the government has ignored this criticism far away and failed to take account of the minority opinions of these organisations and of their response to the hearings, especially since, even in the field of implementation, or what can be said, many of these EU rules could have been retained. In other words, this adaptation or implementation of EU rules has been used as a sort of excuse for weakening consumer protection. We do not think the European Union should decide this at all, but in this case it is not the European Union that decides it. In this way, EU rules are used as an excuse for relaxing rules and thus weakening consumer protection. And this seems to me to be a government which, in turn, is more concerned with the rights of business to market aggressively in this case than with the rights of users to be at peace with spam and advertising. That is why we cannot support the proposal as it stands from the Enhedslisten side, but we will, of course, deal with any amendments that may come with interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108142343	Thank you. There are no brief comments. It's sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108142352	Thank you very much. I shall be very brief and say that we can support L 40. We see this as a simplification of existing legislation. This is the result of the thorough work of the committee set up by the previous government, which means that relevant parties have been involved. These are administrative reliefs for the business community. To the extent that we believe that is necessary. We also think that there is a good balance in relation to the rights, or I would rather say opportunities that business has and in relation to the consumer protection that we also consider reasonable. That is why, as I said, we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108142434	Thank you. Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108142457	I'm sorry I'm late. In the alternative, we are very sceptical about this amendment to the Marketing Act, because we see some elements to be implemented from the European Union, some directives to be made up to date, and we very much agree on that. This is going to create, among other things. Increased transparency and probably also a sensible emphasis on the competition bowl in relation to the opportunities offered by Danish companies. So the first part of the proposal is fully accepted. Then there is the element, which has also been mentioned by previous rapporteurs, that something easier will be done for companies in relation to marketing. It is very important to me to accommodate the opportunities for companies to do well, but I myself have worked intensively on both commission allocation and marketing and advertising, and I just have to say that it is often the case that when you make such concessions here, it is not necessarily for the benefit of those who make the best products. Then it is often for those who have the best channel and the best marketing platform to do so based on. It is possible for people to cross-sell, which is being laid up here, so that you can go in with a product palette, where, for example, as has been said, you have a car you have sold, and then you can also do it with winter tires. And if you have a very large organization or a group, you can also do it on completely different products, I could understand from the technical review we got. So quite different products from what you are actually dealing with, you can turn to other business to business companies. I do not see that going to benefit those who sit in positions where they do not have the same capacity and are not as large as the other companies. So there's going to be a move towards those who have the largest platform to work from, those who have the largest product range, being significantly favoured by it here, because simply on the basis of very wide product catalogs you can go in and offer goods very wide masked to many different people, an option that is not less enjoyable. And there you can say: Well, what if this just gives better products at all and better prices, then maybe it's not so bad even. It might be, but that's not how I read the bill. I believe that it is very much a response to the interests of some very large companies that can use this advertising platform in a way that is not appropriate for consumers and which I also believe will stifle some of the opportunities for smaller companies that have more niche-based products and product categories. In addition, several things have been said in relation to the guidance received as a consumer in the supermarkets or where one might be, in relation to grouped discount schemes. Nor do I think it appropriate to abandon the system of being as transparent as possible. By introducing the directives that come from the European Union, I believe that we are responding to the desire to create the best possible conditions of competition, but the second part of the legislative proposal cannot be accepted in the Alternative, and that is why we must also say no, unless the legislative proposal is split into two. Then I regret again that I was late on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108142810	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108142818	On the part of the Radical Left, we think it is very positive that we are now trying to simplify legislation in the area of marketing. It is also based on the work of a working group which we ourselves have helped to set up. There are a number of good things, such as still avoiding hidden advertising, maintaining good marketing practices as something that is widely known in a Danish context, but there are also a number of issues that we would like to see drilled out during the legal work, which both the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party have pointed out. In other words, will this lead to additional spam, both between different companies, but also in relation to customers, to citizens? Will there be what the consumer ombudsman points out, i.e. whether it is necessary to have the word substantial in the discussion about whether there is a significant distortion of consumer economic behaviour? Has the directive been translated quite correctly here? I think it's worth getting a little deeper into that, too. I also think that the other things are important to have questions raised here: competition on the Internet, and discount schemes that should previously be marked out, which are now being removed. So we will keep that in mind before we finally decide whether we can support this law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108142936	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108142944	SF is on the side of consumers. There's a lot of good things in this bill, L 40. It can be said that it is very sensible to modernise a legal text, to get some of the new media with, the whole digital agenda, to look at words such as fax machines, etc. None of us in this room disagrees with that, it's just snuffy. However, as many of my colleagues have also mentioned, I am of course also very concerned about what the Consumer Council Think and the Consumer Ombudsman have said, and where it is clear that there is simply an over-implementation of EU legislation, I was just about to say. In any case, there has been a very substantial change in the translation in relation to this word, which has also been mentioned by several of my colleagues. That is what both the Consumer Council Think and the Consumer Ombudsman say. It is not just a word that changes the legal position of consumers significantly in relation to what you have to send out. There are, as I started out by saying, some quite clever improvements in this proposal. There are a lot of good things. However, we cannot live by the fact that the government, which is otherwise trying to propose simply implementing some EU legislation in this specific area, does not use a more textual version, as has also been mentioned. That is why we are going to table a specific amendment precisely in this area, which is about making a textual translation of what the directive says so that we do not go any further in granting rights to business, which, in turn, can go very much beyond consumers and the right not to be spammed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108143152	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is now the Minister for Industry and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108143154	Thank you for your comments on the bill that is being discussed here today. There are, of course, up to a number of rapporteurs who have explained very well a large number of the elements contained in the draft law. It is also true, as has been said, that this draft law is based on a committee work undertaken by the previous government, and it is also true that the present government has chosen to make some clarification of the committee's work that has taken place. Having said that, however, I think it is important to start by saying that, on the one hand, the legislative proposal we are discussing here today must support effective competition, but, of course, also on the other hand, good consumer relations. I do not think it can be said that there is a contradiction between the two. The Marketing Act is an essential framework condition for all companies and consumers here in Denmark. It must ensure that we as consumers are not misled, that we get the relevant information when, for example, we get it. buy a car or a tray egg and that our mailbox doesn't drown in ads. It must also give traders the rules of the game that they can act on and protect them from unfair competition from other operators. When we ensure effective and fair competition and appropriate consumer protection, where consumers can be active and protected against misleading and aggressive marketing, we also support well-functioning markets. It has to be said that a number of challenges have also emerged from the legislation in force, and the government is also proposing to create a new and updated main law. Since the last major revision of the law in 2005, the law has been amended drippingly in the context of the implementation of no less than nine EU directives. The result has become a fragmented marketing law in which some of the rules overlap. At the same time, the European Commission also believes that the law has not been sufficient EU conformity, as it says in politicians' language; that it does not meet the EU's obligations as we have it is more Danish to say it that way. Technological developments with new marketing methods in particular: Facebook, Instagram and other social media also make companies uncertain whether their marketing stays within the legal framework and that consumers may be uncertain about their rights. That is why we also need a new legislative proposal. The Marketing Committee has been working for more than a year to solve these challenges in the best possible way, and the Government's bill is closely aligned with the committee's recommendations. I would also like to thank the Members who took part in the work here today from the Chair of Parliament. I myself have had the opportunity to meet them, and I think there is reason to sign for a very nice and very ambitious work on relatively detailed legislation. After all, the legislative proposal here is an attempt to obtain a clearer law within the framework of the EU directives. This ensures that we comply with our EU legal obligations, while at the same time, as a starting point, the rules do not go further than we are legally obliged to do. Of course, you can agree or disagree with that, but it is a more political discussion. In addition, we also reduce the administrative burden on companies by approx. 10.5 billion kr. a year. This is done, of course, by abolishing companies' obligation to sign organised discounts and by repealing a number of notices which have been overtaken by developments. Significant changes to the current law include the fact that, at the request of industry, we propose that operators should be allowed to send e-mail to other operators. It also provides for easier access to e-mail advertisements to consumers who have consented to receive marketing. Some of the provisions of the existing law are proposed to be repealed as they are not deemed to be compatible with EU regulation in this area, for example. the obligation of operators to sign an organized discount and the obligation of operators to provide guidance on the purchase of a product. Finally, I would like to emphasise that I firmly believe that this bill supports both a more efficient market and fair competition, but also ensures a high level of consumer protection here in Denmark. And, of course, I also agree that there have been a number of comments here during the debate, which certainly also require answers. Of course, there may also be answers to ensure that there are parties which are given a different and more nuanced attitude or a different attitude than the one they have expressed in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108143635	There is one brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108143638	Thank you. What does the Minister say to the Consumer Ombudsman and the Consumer Council's comments that this translation, which uses the word substantially, does not correspond to the original wording of the directive or its intention? I am sure the Minister is aware of the part of the criticism made by the Consumer Ombudsman and the Consumer Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108143706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108143706-2	This is a criticism which I am aware of and which can also be read in the hearing answer. And, of course, there have been relatively many consultation responses in this regard. When we have put forward this bill, as we do, it is because we believe it remains within the EU legal framework that is in force. But I think it makes good sense to elaborate on it in a committee procedure, and I would like to do so too. I do not think it makes sense to take a longer EU-legal discussion here today from the platform. I am certainly not able to do so, but I would very much like to go down in the written sources, and then we can have a discussion from that point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108143741	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108143742	However, it is often the case that we have the big debate here at first reading, which is why I would just like to acknowledge that the Minister is very accommodating in relation to what we are several parties who have said, namely that this is something we are concerned with. Perhaps the Minister could gain much broader support for the bill by tabling an amendment, such as the one tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to what the Consumer Council is talking about and the Consumer Ombudsman is talking about, namely a more textual version, which adheres to the original paragraphs. I believe that it is paragraphs 4 to 8 of the original text that they say are about distorting, not whether there is any significant deterioration. Well, there's a substantive difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108143825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108143827	I would also like to say today that, as is often the case, we have ample opportunity to discuss things here in Parliament that the Minister is always sensitive to good proposals from the SF and, above all, from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, especially if they make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108143846	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108143859	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108143917	Thank you, President. Money laundering and the channelling of money into terrorist financing must be combated by far better means than today. The Panama papers and the nasty terrorist attacks against our open democracies show that there is a continuing need for stricter rules. That's why the Social Democratic Party welcomes this bill on a reinforced money laundering law. The draft law implements parts of the latest international standards from the Financial Action Task Force from 2012 and the fourth money laundering directive. The law will apply to about 15,000 Danish companies. So what does the bill contain? Yeah, the new thing is that the focus is on risk assessment. The legislative proposal makes regulation risk-based, and efforts are becoming more targeted and effective both by the authorities and the companies and individuals involved, because with a more risk-based approach, efforts are being made where the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing is greatest, and that makes real sense. In future, undertakings shall identify and assess for themselves the risk that companies may be misused for money laundering or terrorist financing, and the risk assessment shall be documented and updated on an ongoing basis. This must be done by providing companies with adequate written policies and procedures and controls, such as: may include customer knowledge procedures, notification obligations, storage of information, staff screening and internal control. It is a good and important step that the responsibility for the company's work should be placed high in the company's management, whether at management level, at a audit unit or a board member. But the higher up in the company, the better the responsibility, the better. It is important that companies are required to inform the Public Prosecutor immediately of particular economic and international crime if the entity is aware of, or suspects, or has reasonable grounds to suspect that a transaction or some funds or activity has been linked to money laundering or terrorist financing. But what if an employee finds out that the company he or she is employed in is breaking the law on money laundering or terrorist financing? Then, of course, we need to ensure that there is a proper whistleblower system, and companies must therefore have a system whereby employees can report infringements or potential infringements of the law on money laundering committed by the company via a special independent and independent channel. And the reports must be anonymous. I am surprised, however, that it is proposed that the scheme should only be introduced if companies employ five or more people, and I will try to pursue this during committee work and get a statement as to why this is so in the legislative proposal. In general, I would like to say that it is a good thing that there is a focus on sanctions for breaches of the rules on money laundering and terrorist financing, and in the proposal the sanctions range from fines and prisons for as long as six months. As a coercive measure, the authorities can also impose daily and weekly fines. Of course, there must be proportionality in the sanctions, but I think that the sanctions could well be increased a little more than is done here in the legislative proposal. When we talk about money laundering, tax fraud and such things, it is important to look at what you can do across borders. An entity that has established branches or majority-owned subsidiaries in a country that is not an EU or EEA country shall comply with requirements imposed on the entity under the Laundering Act. Furthermore, if national law of the country of establishment does not allow compliance with the requirements of the Laundering Act, the entity shall take further measures to ensure that the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing in the branch or subsidiary is otherwise addressed. It may also come to the point where you simply do not have activities in the country concerned. The company must, of course, inform the relevant Danish supervisory authority if the legislation of the country concerned does not allow compliance with the rules. These are very important measures which should help to curb the possibility of companies placing themselves in countries with a view to circumventing Danish legislation. However, I am surprised at one small thing where there is an exemption from the law, and that is where it says something about professional physical transportation of money, unlike the applicable law on money laundering, should not be covered by the scope of the bill. I would like to say that this is also something we should have examined during the committee's reading. On the subject of gambling legislation, I would like to say that we need to get the Minister to discuss the role of Danske Spils and how Danske Spille will be affected and what the Minister intends to do to ensure that Danske Spille has good conditions for running a business in the future. Finally, I would like to say that the Social Democratic Party can, of course, support the proposal. If, however, during the committee procedure there is a chance to tighten up a little in some places, then the Social Democratic Party is fresh about it. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that, of course, the Social Democratic Party will appear when it comes to negotiating again on the subject of money laundering. I think that the most recent thing we have seen with exchange offices is something that violates the Danes' sense of justice, and that is where we need to pick up enormously. So the Social Democrats support the proposal, but we are also ready to go further in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108144441	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108144454	The Danish People's Party would also like to sign the Minister's bill with the amendments proposed here, with the implementation of additional initiatives to secure Denmark against, among other things, Denmark. money laundering, terrorist financing, etc. We also agree with the government that it is good that we now have a law that focuses more on a risk-based approach to it than on a rule-based approach. That's pretty good enough. We just think that there are some elements in the draft law that give rise to some fundamental discussions about what we can actually do. Because as we make these strengthened efforts in the legislation in relation to the efforts made towards the financial systems, we know that this is something that is linked, among other things, to. The money transfer discussions about how easy and how to transfer money, for example via Danish daily kiosks, where it is possible to do so. The same applies to exchange offices, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned in his speech. For these initiatives, which are all well-founded and reasonable, also raise the question: what are we going to do about physical money smuggling? Because we can see that when it becomes increasingly difficult to transfer money in the way it has traditionally been able to do so and thus have the money laundered, there will be a greater risk that some will start smuggling money physically across borders instead. I think we should also take that into account in the discussions that may be taking place. I recognise, of course, that this is not all that falls under the Ministry of Industry's remit. Others are also responsible for border controls and all sorts of other things. However, there has been a well-founded criticism that there is too far between physical checks at our airports in particular. Others have even pointed out that it is a mere surplus business to carry them out, because one is simply able to find so many money smugglers that there will be a great deal of money to be held back. I think that is good and healthy and sensible. One of the elements of the draft law here concerns what the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned, namely Danske Spil. We are therefore in favour of not accepting that people go down and play on all horses to be able to take the money back home afterwards, because they have played safely to put it bluntly, and in this way can launder criminally acquired money for white money here in Denmark from different environments • bikers and immigrant gangs and all sorts of other things. That is why we need to put an end to this. But that is the wrong way to do it, as outlined in this bill, because our optics does not take due account, for example, of the challenges that are also specified in the Danish Games consultation responses. There you can look forward to a turnover loss of perhaps 300-500 million. kr. a year, at least according to the calculations that have been made. We are in favour of stricter requirements, but we are also in favour of this being done in ways other than those outlined in the legislative proposal. For example, we have the opportunity to say that you have to register if you get more cash prizes than EUR 2 000. Alternatively, one can of course at the same time say that one can also go in and do so in such a way that all prizes of a certain size must be paid out via an easy account. For that would mean that those in Denmark who have an uncontrollable desire to be criminals would find it more difficult to use an easy account. One might almost be tempted to say that it is going to be a difficult account for them, and no one is opposed to that. So the Danish People's Party is actually positive about this bill, but we have a bottom-up job to ensure better conditions than those outlined in the bill for Danske Game and their actor. Because we can't just accept that the game simply goes through Unibet, which is registered in Malta or elsewhere, and that it is then Danske Game, which in addition helps to ensure that we get money back through the system to our sports world and our leisure and cultural life in the municipalities, etc., that really ends up getting less revenue for all the right and sensible to-dos funded through Danske Game. So it's at least a place where the minister has to deliver something before we want to vote in favour of this bill. But if you don't, I'd like to thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108144942	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108144953	If you try to save your money, try to wash money that is earned by illegal activity and knowledge, if you try to conduct transactions in secret, there is rarely any good purpose for this. And, unfortunately, we see examples of money laundering to support terrorist financing, tax evasion and many other things, which is why it is important that we take effective action against money laundering, and we do so with this legislative proposal that implements the European Union's Fourth Money Laundering Directive. This is a directive which the two previous rapporteurs have outlined, but let me nevertheless highlight a few points. We make a switch from rule-based control to a more risk-based approach. In other words, it makes very good sense for more effective and targeted action to be taken where the risk is greatest, where the amounts are high, where there may be a little more exotic countries, or where people staying in the same places are involved, whereas there may be little need to put completely everyday activities on a standard form and run according to a slavish procedure, which in fact merely inflicts trouble on companies and places the authorities in control of something that is basically well known there is nothing to come after. On the other hand, it is important that, where there are problems and challenges from experience, the authorities must of course look more closely, and companies must have clearer and more effective procedures to detect and identify when something is wrong, and thus they can also inform the authorities when warning lights flash. That is why the proposal also contains a provision that there should be a clear responsibility for the task in question, which is to ensure that there is no money laundering. It is clearly defined that it must be clearly anchored, and it also has a large number of other provisions, but it will probably be too comprehensive to go into detail with all of them. It is such a proposal with a very, very important aim: to combat money laundering, terrorist financing, but at the same time a bill is included, and it is not without very great administrative and economic consequences that we set out the requirements that we have agreed together, both in international committees, but also through the European Union. That is why it is, of course, costs that we impose on companies, and it is, of course, our starting point on the Left that we must make sure that they are kept as low as possible, and that is why it is a very, very directive-by-law implementation that the draft law proposes. The relaxations and the exceptions that have been made have been used. There are activities that are currently covered by the Money Laundering Directive but that can be taken out with the new risk-based approach, such as investment management companies that have no customer contact. In other words, when one's contact goes through a sales channel in a financial institution, it is the financial institution that has the task of controlling, and not those who trade with the financial institution alone. So there has been a clear desire from us in the Left for us to implement the directive, but also for us to ensure that costs are kept as low as possible. The consultation responses and the procedure that have been followed also reflect the desire to strike a balance between purpose and cost, and if there is an opportunity to further ensure that we maintain the objective while minimising some costs, I can say that we are naturally very responsive on the Left side. In relation to the element that has been raised about the gambling authority and the control that exists, I would say that there are some provisions in the directive that need to be laid down. We are, in fact, of exactly the same opinion, namely that we should not put obstacles to Danish Games. It should not be a big, hasty, bureaucratic monster to go down to buy a lottery ticket, we have no interest in it to the citizens, nor to the Danish Games and the profit recipients, so there we on the Left are very concerned about the dialogue between the Ministry of Business and the Treasury, so that it seems reasonable, so that this can be resolved in remembrance with no great consequences. So we support the proposal and, of course, follow good initiatives to have it trimmed more. Then I have promised to greet the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108145500	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108145508	This is one of the proposals that, when it is down in the pigeonhole, you get so tired of already, because it fills incredibly much and is very complicated. But you can't do that much about it. It's part of the job description. It is a comprehensive proposal and contains a large number of elements. On the whole, however, it is very good that with this fourth money laundering directive we will do something to limit not only financial crime but also the financing of terrorism. And we really also think that the more risk-based approach that is being proposed here is preferable, especially in relation to small businesses, for example. the fact that they are not going to have to have their own compliance function and internal audit, etc. It is, of course, a little important for us to know exactly which companies we believe should be included in the requirement, and we will probably be asking some questions about that on the way. We are very pleased that earlier this year we had a register of the real owners and we understand that this money laundering directive uses a broader definition of a real owner. That is also a good thing, so we can support that too. It is also positive that more and more types of companies are receiving whistleblower schemes, where employees can anonymously turn if there is something criminal going on, for example. money laundering. So far, so good. There are also some elements in the draft law that make us a little hesitant about supporting it. One of the main problems we see here is the stricter requirements for customer knowledge procedures for politically exposed persons. What we see happening with this directive is that we extend the circle of people in this customer knowledge procedure to politically exposed people, but not only the politically exposed person understood as the politician, because it might be okay. In any case, we are in favour of having a business register and other things in which we think the whole parliament should register. Unfortunately, there are a number of those who are sitting on this page, but also allowing this enhanced supervision to include children and parents, close collaborators and a number of other people related to elected politicians, we think that we immediately sound a little far-reaching, so that private companies should keep such a large circle of people under tighter supervision. Perhaps you could understand that in some of the countries that have a slightly larger weave between "no," I don't go down that road. But in any case, it can be said that it is therefore private companies which must keep a person's circle under tighter supervision. The Consumer Council Think also says in their hearing answer that it is inconvenient. We think it sounds like a rather pervasive control of the affected circle. So what we're going to do is we're going to ask some questions about how comprehensive this registration really should be, what information you can expect there to be, how to store the sensitive information, who is to supervise, etc. Another problem in the bill is that it actually refers to this definition of terrorism, which lies in section 114b of the Criminal Code. It is known that from the outset we have been very critical of the very unclear and arbitrary definition of terrorism and support for terrorism. A number of experts have pointed out that they had supported, for example. Nelson Mandela's ANC in the 1980s, while sitting on Robben Island, it would have been possible to condemn terrorism, and that is not appropriate. We have also seen at home how a Kurdish television station was accused. This simply means that it is too lax and impossible for citizens to know whether support for a particular organisation or trade union in some country, such as the United Kingdom. against dictatorship is included in the definition of terror. It is clear that we cannot expect it to change with this bill, but it is for us to see a further problem with the bill. However, our main concern is with this customer knowledge procedure, which we hope to have some clarity about, and then we will take a final position on the proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108145954	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108150023	Thank you. Denmark is the least corrupt country in the world, and that is good. This is one of the reasons why we are a rich and prosperous country and society. If I had now been a politician in a southern European country where we know that corruption is unfortunately more widespread than it is in Denmark, and thus that money laundering is more widespread than it is in Denmark, then I really think I would have been in favour of this bill. Because corruption, money laundering and, of course, terrorism are enemies of liberal democracy, and that must and must be combated. There can be no disagreement on this. That's why the intention of this bill is really, really good. And, as I said, this is the EU money laundering directive that is being implemented in Danish legislation. I also believe that, when it was designed in the European Union, it was not countries like Denmark that were thought of making this type of legislation necessary. However, as a member of the European Union, we must, of course, implement it. But that does not mean that we cannot be critical of it, because it is now being discussed in the Danish Parliament, and we are therefore somewhat sceptical about this specific legislative proposal. We are for a number of reasons. Firstly, the financial burdens involved in this bill are quite severe. It is clear from the draft law that the burden will amount to 228 million. kr. in compliance costs, 225 million; kr. in administrative burdens as well as administrative conversion costs of a total of 1.2 billion. kr. These are quite huge amounts, and we are at least asking ourselves whether the high costs measure up to the challenges, problems we have with money laundering in Denmark, and whether the bill will reduce the number of problems to such an extent that it can justify these high costs. We are a little sceptical about that. Secondly, the administrative burdens imposed on ordinary law-abiding citizens, who are customers in the companies affected by the bill. I think we're going to see and hear about some perhaps such a little grotesque examples of what law-abiding citizens are going to do with documentation in connection with this bill because they're customers in the companies concerned. Thirdly, the report by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Pelle Dragsted, mentioned this issue of the registration of politically exposed persons. It may make sense if you are in other countries, to be perfectly honest, where we know that corruption and money laundering are a major problem, but I do not think it makes that much sense in Denmark. And I think that, as a liberal politician, we must be sceptical about registering citizens, including politicians, because there is always the risk that registration can be misused, fall into the wrong hands, etc. Furthermore, we are not entirely convinced that with this bill, the government is living up to the otherwise extremely reasonable ambition of the government not to overimplement EU legislation. I fully recognise that the government has made corrections, listened to many of the consultation responses, which have problematised the fact that there is over-implementation in some areas, but we are not yet fully convinced that there is no over-implementation in some areas, and we would certainly like that to be done in committee. So we're skeptical about this bill, but we'll take a position on the bill when it's been through committee work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108150535	There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108150541	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. What amazes me a little is that the rapporteur does not focus on the fact that this is also about ending terrorist financing. Can the rapporteur not see that some of the measures contained in this bill are extremely important for us to be able to stop those crazy people from practicing terrorism here in Denmark and in other European countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108150554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108150557	After all, nobody wants to get rid of terrorism, but it is of no use, I think that every time you have an ambition in any legislative proposal to get rid of terrorism, because you write it, you cannot be able to take a critical view of the specific content. There are other things that we must also protect, including legal certainty, that we live in a constitutional state. That is what terrorists are attacking, that is, our values, our rule of law, and we must always balance them when we also want to fight terrorism.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108150642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108150643	Having read the bill here, I would like to say that I do not think that there have been significant areas where, with this draft law, if it is adopted and it does hopefully go further than we have done in other laws relating to the rule of law mentioned by the rapporteur. And I am just surprised that the rapporteur is bringing this up, that there should be no more regulation, but that there should be no focus on terrorist financing at all. In other words, it is a huge problem if we can transfer money between countries to people who then have the opportunity to carry out terrorism, and I think that the Liberal Alliance should take this seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108150724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108150726	I can assure you, sir. Thomas Jensen, we take this seriously. However, I would like to repeat that it is no use shutting down a discussion just because the bill says here that terrorist financing is being combated. In other words, because we are critical of a legislative proposal which aims to combat terrorist financing, this does not mean that we as a party will not be involved in combating terrorist financing. But you have to see every legislative proposal in its entirety whether it is balanced in relation to all the other considerations you have to take. And here we allow ourselves to be a little bit critical of it. I would like to put it this way that I am not sure that we will end terrorist financing with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108150811	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108150819	This is turning into a really interesting debate. In fact, on behalf of the Alternative, I am very much in favour of this proposal, and we shall also say 'yes'. It may be that we are going to get some changes through in committee work, but as a starting point we think that the positive far outweighs the negative in the proposal. On the other hand, there is a good frame of reference, I think, in the considerations we have made in relation to both the personal data that will be included, as Enhedslisten has said, and also the burdens that will be imposed on business, as the Liberal Alliance has said. After all, the last question from the Socialists is important, and we are very much in the alternative about stopping the flow of funds. In other policy areas, we have so much to say that we must stop the flow of money rather than perhaps do anything else in relation to terrorism. Here it is so heavy for us that we think this is a good way, and we are so in favour of following the implementations that come from the European Union and what we share. But I think it is liberating to hear the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance say that when the headline says 'terrorism', we should think twice about it. Because it is not, of course, a legitimation that we simply have to post money or that we just have to regulate or legislate just because it says "terrorism" in the headline. It must be based on a critical assessment every time whether this is the right way to fight terrorism, because we all agree that terrorism is terrible. Here we think, in the alternative, that this is a sensible way of doing it. But let us at last get it in, every time we talk about legislation against terrorism or radicalisation, that you just lift it up and so well must be critical without being put into such a box where you are almost insane because you question it. I think that is a good argument, but at the same time I fully agree with the Socialists that it is actually being handled quite sensibly in this package. Then I had one thought, as was also stated in a consultation reply: that implementation might have to be shot, because it was a rather massive legislative package to put down over the companies. I cannot fully understand yet whether it is actually just because companies want to avoid having to hurry or whether it is simply because it is not possible to do so at the speed we are showing. So a few more questions on whether it should perhaps be shot, as it was proposed, I also think that is relevant. In the alternative, we are very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108151036	Thank you, sir. René Gade. We move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108151041	Thank you very much. It is true, when we discuss money laundering and terrorist financing, that one can think: is that too small Denmark? Nobody does that here. But I would also like to say that if you have historically followed some of the cases that have been, where Denmark has come to the heart a little unlucky, then you have to see this in a larger context. Some may recall the quota fraud case, where we had a Danish register which was simply too laxly regulated and where, in fact, there were suddenly people who could set up and start trading quotas. Then one understands that Denmark cannot have any more lax rules, because terrorist financing and money laundering are, after all, searching where there can be lax rules. So, even if we don't expect a single person in this country to come up with something like that, we should of course not be naive and have our rules open. We in the Radical Left think it makes sense to move from this rule-based approach to the risk-based approach. I also think it is important to keep the discussion in the context of supervision on who has actually estimated. Because if you really want to make this shift, we should also dare to do it, you might say, you should also dare to leave some of the estimates to the banks, so they should at least have a mandate from the politicians, so that they can see that we actually mean this. Then there are a few problems in the legislative proposal, as several other rapporteurs have also mentioned. I think it is a problem that Danish gambling providers will be subject to considerably stricter requirements than providers established elsewhere in the world. Danish Occupation estimates that it could cost up to 400-500 million. kr. at the expense of the Danish game providers, and this may also mean that smaller stores that use this game to get people into the store will lose money if it is that the Danish gaming providers will find themselves in a very unfortunate situation. A few solutions have been put forward, among others. Danish Occupation. This know your customer principle, the customer knowledge procedure, only applies to winnings over 2,000 euros. It is not certain that it should be right there, but it makes very good sense that these are the big gains, because then it is really, really many small money laundering that you have to make if it is gains of DKK 50-100. So we set some minimum limit, and money over a certain amount is paid out to people's easy account so that it gets into the system and that way around. At any rate, these are some solutions. Then it was exciting to read about the banks' increased supervision for politically exposed persons. It is therefore us here in the Folketing now that we decide that our banks should keep an extra close eye not only on us but also on our parents, our spouses and even our children. So now I have to go home and tell Niels and Simon of 3 and 5 that their child savings are not going to be used for any trouble, because now we are being watched very closely. I'm kidding. I say all this, of course, primarily because I think what the Financial Council is proposing is sensible. Now that we are asking them to start doing this rather extensive work, it is a good idea that it is the authorities that are making a register of who it is that has to be kept extra watch over and that it is our responsibility to update it so that we do not impose an extra heavy burden on them. So we would like to ask the Minister's position, that is, what the Minister says about the fact that, in relation to politically exposed persons, it is the authorities that maintain and maintain a register so that there is no additional burden to the various institutions in that way. Otherwise, however, we are in favour of putting an end to all the money laundering and terrorist financing that could be possible, and it is good that we are making common rules in Europe on these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108151426	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. We move on to Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108151437	This is a very important bill, but it is also a very technical bill. And that is why I think it sounds good that the government has said yes to the many consultation parties that have said that we need relatively easy to understand guidance in order to implement it here. This is quite important because it is a very, very comprehensive legislative proposal. At the same time, the consultation responses from the parties to the consultation show that there are actually quite different views as to what is in this proposal. To list just a few, I can say that there are some fundamentally different views between the consultation parties and the Ministry in areas such as corruption, transparency, the type of advisors included in the money laundering law and whether registered over real owners are public or not. And there's probably a lot more. I think it is worrying that there may be so different views about this bill when it comes from organisations who, after all, know quite a lot about this area and work with it every day. From the SF we see the draft law as a very clear, significant step forward, and it must also be seen in the context of the country-by-country rules. I want to strike down on two things. It is very important that resources be allocated to monitor compliance with the rules, including for carrying out preventive checks. There are also problems here as in the country-by-country rules when some companies in a group are owned by funds or trusts. It is not really clear whether ownership is assessed on the basis of whether there is ownership of a fund or trust, or whether it is the underlying persons, i.e. founders and beneficiaries, especially where foreign funds or trusts are concerned, and these under the new rules of the equation law are considered transparent, according to Danish tax law. We want to drill that into the committee process, because we see some major problems there. The concept of a group is also unclear if an EEIG is owned by different funds that are actually linked. For example: the IKEA Group is operated into three formally separate groups owned by three funds, so that intangible rights are separated into special funds. It was not just to bring IKEA into play, but to say that this is how many large companies and multinational companies are owned in different ways, of different types of funds, groups, etc. So it is really also for the sake of business, banks and all the players who have to come in and deal with this that there will be complete clarity about what is meant by it. On behalf of the SF, I can say that it is quite fair that we are being watched very closely as politicians, but somewhere else we may have to set the limit in relation to parents, children, neighbours, friends and whatever else. In other words, this is often the problem we face when drafting directives in the European Union: dealing with very different countries, with different social standards and levels of corruption. And then it becomes a little the lowest common denominator that is taken as a starting point. Because there are other countries where perhaps there could be better arguments as to why people had to be so closely monitored. Perhaps we can discuss this a little more in the committee process. It is, of course, as it stands, but it was just to say that there may also be limits to what all the people who are in our associations should put up with, because we have chosen to go into politics. But on the whole it is a very good proposal and a very good directive. There is also still more to be done in this area, both in relation to both Panama Papers, in relation to the further work which the Minister is proposing to do, where I have also understood that it has been proposed here that it should continue to work in cooperation. So we are going to discuss money laundering, tax havens, tax evasion etc. In here for a long time yet. But the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108151916	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, so it is the Minister for Industry and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108151922	Thank you for the many comments that have fallen in connection with this bill, which is, of course, the implementation of an EU directive. I think we can start by saying, overall, that this is a very, very complicated directive to implement. There have been some of the rapporteurs here today who have touched on elements of the draft law, some of course of a more fundamental nature than others, but first of all I think that this discussion at first reading, in which virtually all parties agree with the very sensible aim of curbing money laundering and thus also curbing the possibility of financing terrorism, also leads to a nuanced discussion, namely how and how we can then do it in a way that ensures that we do not do anything that is completely overkill to use a not very Danish word, but at least do something that is huge. That is why I believe that the first reading today gives me the opportunity to say to some of the rapporteurs that I will at least now take the initiative to talk to the chairman of the committee about a more technical review of some of the elements that have been addressed today. I think this bill could deserve that. We are carrying out technical reviews of a number of other legislative proposals, and as I consider this to be one of the most technical proposals in this collection, one might say that it is perhaps a little strange that you do not have a technical review of this particular proposal. One might also say that if even Enhedslisten thinks that we are going too far, then I am also beginning to think that there is something that we have missed in this connection? That's Jysk humor, what I'm saying here. But it is just to say that this is going to be very, very far around, and the question that has been raised by a number of rapporteurs, and that is also clear, of course, because it is also something that comes close to your own self-esteem about how you are a politically exposed person. And there I would just like to start by saying that there's FSA going to provide guidance to elaborate on what's behind this. It is clear that you can make many exciting jokes about why it is absolutely crucial that children of 3 and 5 years of age and their piggy savings and many other things have to be passed through. I am well aware that this was not the point of Mrs Ida Auken's remark, that was said in jokes, but I think that the guidance we have provided is quite important, so that we also ensure that this becomes understandable. This brings me to the point that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen quite rightly says that this is one of the challenges of EU legislation, namely that there may be a difference in how political culture is around the European Communities. There are, of course, potentially some countries that may be interested in this being a common European legislation, because it then means setting up legislative instruments which may not be possible at national level. It is clear that for some of these countries this is a very, very offensive and good tool, whereas there will be countries, at least here in Scandinavia, where it would be said that this is something that brings us too far. In general terms, however, these instruments help to prevent criminals from finding new ways of financing their activities. That is, of course, the whole idea behind the work that has taken place with this EU regulation. We also know that terrorist events have unfortunately hit Europe, in France, and it is not the case that we can say that Denmark has failed in this regard. In addition, unfortunately, we have also seen examples, including recent ones, for example. The Panama case, which illustrates the need to take further preventive measures in this area. At the same time, however, it is also important that the initiatives that are being launched should not become an unnecessary burden on business and that they should provide real added value in the fight against money laundering and thus also have a beneficial effect in society. I also noted that a large number of rapporteurs were interested in whether we are sure that this will bring added value and that we will then also have the effect of this very comprehensive legislative proposal, also in relation to the economic consequences that exist. We have tried on the part of the government and I have tried as a minister to strike this balance, but I think that we can say quite well today that there will be a need for a thorough discussion, and that is what happens during the committee's proceedings. To mention a few elements, it is of course the case that, firstly, with the legislative proposal, we change the regulation from being primarily rule-based to being more risk-based. It is precisely to ensure that the resources of companies and authorities can go targeted to those areas where there is an increased risk of money laundering and terrorist financing. Resource consumption can then also be lower in customer relationships with less risk, and there it is so crucial that the balanced approach is also achieved. Another element, of course, is also, as has also been mentioned, how the new rules for companies provide more opportunities than today to make use of a relaxed approach to identifying the many customer relationships where companies consider that there is a limited risk. This is because it is an expectation that customers will experience fewer nuisances and that companies will have to use fewer resources in areas that are categorized as low risk. At the same time, we also ensure a greater focus on those people or companies where there is a real or significant risk of money laundering or terrorist financing. This means that, in relation to individual customer groups, there must continue to be stricter requirements for the knowledge that the companies must have about the customer. And it is precisely here that the whole discussion about the politically exposed people, the PEPs, comes in. Thirdly, the draft law also provides for a stronger organisational anchoring of the money laundering area in financial companies. An entity shall designate a person, the money laundering controller, who is aware of the risks of the entity. This person will be responsible for making decisions for the company in areas with increased risk of money laundering and terrorism and financing, as well as approving the company's policies and procedures and controls. The proposal thus ensures that there is someone who has the necessary knowledge and overview, something that has proved to be lacking in practice in several of the larger companies. Fourthly, the draft law contains a number of measures to ensure effective enforcement of the rules. There will be among other things. as a new set of corporate rules and responsibilities for companies operating in several EU countries. This also happens in the light of the fact that crime often has a cross-border element. Finally, let me say that there have also been comments about Danish Games and some of the concerns that Danske Games has mentioned. There I would like to say that Danske Spil has also addressed me as a minister. In a short time I will be meeting with Danske Game to try to become a little more clever about the challenges that Danske Game is experiencing that this bill brings. It is more to also signal as a result of some of the comments that have been that there will be a discussion with Danske Game precisely to see how we ensure that we will not put Danske Game in an unfortunate situation in relation to that they can still operate in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108152647	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108152652	Thank you, sir. President. It just said that I had 7 minutes' speaking time, and I was just wondering if I should take advantage of them, but they disappeared as quickly as they came. I would like to ask a few questions about the Minister's written submission, because if you look at the submission we have received dated 13 October, it is here at the top of the page and it is after all the Minister who gives his name to note that the draft law is essentially a directive-close implementation. And if you look at the part of the bill that has to do with the last thing the Minister himself mentioned, namely Danske Spil, then it is one of the places where you say there is a clear implementation. I would like to ask the Minister: why has it been decided to go in at all to look at an overimplementation rather than to do what is called a directive-by-law implementation, as the government had the opportunity to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108152753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108152755	Thus, in relation to the question of Danske Game, it is the case that the tax minister in the way the bill is made will have the opportunity to exempt gambling areas where there is limited risk, which will also take place. That's just like why we've made the bill this way, so to ensure that there's no overimplementation. But it is clear that I also take note of the concerns that have been raised, and it would be strange of me to say that it does not also make an impression. However, I consider, as a minister, that what we have presented here is what is needed in order to achieve an EU implementation that is timely and that meets the commitments we have. But there may be different assessments of that, and that is also why I have asked to have a meeting with Danske Games. They have just expressed this in the hearing reply and have also asked for a dialogue with me as a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108152846	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108152849	Thank you. Yes, because if you read the consultation answer we have received from Danish Occupations for example, it is clear that this is a massive over-implementation of the EU directive, as Denmark does not apply any of the possible opt-outs and that Denmark, by applying several of these opt-outs and opt-outs, will be able to achieve the aim of the law in a much less burdensome way without registering hundreds of thousands of Danes and imposing incalculable burdens on business. And it also says further down that this is completely unnecessary, because the EU directive allows us to look only at the individual transactions, or for example. register premiums above a certain amount and not all payments. I think that's clear writing. I know that it is from a party to the case, but I just think that the Minister should answer why it has been chosen, since it is written in its submission that it is implementation as close to the minimum as possible, because it is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108152942	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108152944	It is, of course, because there is a discussion about whether or not it is close to text. There are different views on this. With the proposal that has been put forward and also the legal basis that is given to the tax minister, we assess that it will then be possible to make a textual implementation. But I have no ambition to make this more difficult than it is, and if we can get a more accurate clarification in committee, I am only interested in it. I'm not in the world to make trouble. I really want to find some useful solutions. But that is the answer to it, and it is also something that I would like to expand on in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108153017	We thank the Minister for Industry and Growth. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108153033	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108153044	The complaints bodies in our society must be effective and competent, and then they must have legitimacy, and the bill here brings together the handling of complaints in the level area with a number of other state complaints boards in the House of Names in Viborg. It strengthens professional competence, and that in itself is good. At the same time, the aim is that the processing time should be shorter and both benefit citizens, companies and municipalities alike. After all, the bill comes from the agreement •Danmark in better balance-sheet • better framework for municipalities, citizens and companies throughout the country. As part of the agreement, there was a desire to abolish the Nature and Environment Complaints Board and to establish two new Boards of Complaints in the House of Names in Viborg and one for the planning area and one for the environment and food. The aim of the whole exercise is to create a more independent professional environment around spatial planning. The new Board of Appeal shall be composed of both professional experts, relevant organisations and laymen. We are pleased that in this way both professionalism is increased and layman function maintained. As I said, the Board of Appeal will be placed with other State Boards of Appeal in the House of Names in Viborg, and the idea is to create a common entrance for complaints and a strong professional legal environment. It must contribute to more efficient and competent processing in the various boards, and that is very well thought out. The intention is also that the new Environmental and Food Complaints Board should be placed in the same house, and in this way it can continue to support the coordination of complaints, both concerning the Planning Act and the Nature Conservation Act. Our view is that there will generally be a focus on supporting an effective appeal procedure in the various boards, including in cases that contain issues that need to be dealt with in several boards. I hope the Minister will confirm that. Overall, it should reduce the average processing time so that it can last for less than 6 months, and if the processing time goes further, it would certainly be good. Finally, it is important for the Social Democrats that the bill states that the proposal complies with the Aarhus Convention of EU law, which provides for rules on access to justice in environmental matters. Overall, the consultations show that a number of organisations and municipalities are in favour of the establishment of a new independent Board of Appeal. Conversely, a number of other organisations and municipalities have expressed concern, particularly in the field of nature and the environment. Of course, we take note of the concerns, but are also full of hope, in that the new complaint structure will facilitate the process of complaint processing and provide professional competence. As a general comment on the consultation responses, I also think it is worth emphasising that the draft law does not contain provisions that change anything in relation to environmental and nature protection, landscape considerations or the like. For the Social Democratic Party, it is important that the proposal strengthens the professional legal environment, which forms the basis for dealing with complaints in the field of the environment. We are pleased that it is continued and we support initiatives to shorten processing time, so of course we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108153400	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108153407	Thank you for that, President. As the Socialist rapporteur has just mentioned, this is, after all, the implementation of the agreement between Denmark and the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the government. In my view, there is no doubt that when you get a house of the names in Viborg, that is, a place where people can complain and where you get all these many complaints boards we have in an access to complaints, it will give this balance in relation to the fact that when people file a complaint, you don't drag on time and things don't take too long. I hope so. I say this because one of the reasons why we at least agreed to the agreement is quite clear: we think that the review system should reflect, as the text says, a better balance between the concern for growth and development in terms of nature and the environment. When I mention it, it is certainly not because I think that nature and the environment are something worse than growth and industry, but it is not the reverse either, and I think that is important to say that. That is why I am also pleased that there will be some fees on these complaints. A fee has been introduced to pay 900 DKK as a private person. for a complaint and organizations must pay 1.800 DKK. And I must say I am glad of that, especially because I think there are a great many matters that have suspensory effect, and here goes among other things. Denmark's Conservation Association in and complains about the cases. Sometimes it seems to me personally as if you are complaining a little in a hurry; I do not think that is right, especially because it takes a lot of time, as it has suspensive effect. I have no objection in principle to complaining about cases, but I think it is important that sometimes things are taken a little seriously, and that is not always the impression I have of it. That is why it is included in the law what fees there are, and it is of course also because here in the Folketing we have to keep an eye on the fees, as they are indexed, and sometimes it has gone a little out of the price ceiling, one can say, in relation to what it costs; I have experienced that too. So it is of course important that we keep an eye on them, but it is also important that we can change that at any time. I am mentioning this here because I think it is important, as we are now setting up this Board of Appeal, that in time what I hope will happen will happen, namely that we succeed in reducing the time for proceedings. It is also stated in the draft law that in the long term it is expected to come down in six months. And it is of course important, if you want growth and development, that you do not have processing times such as those we have seen in the past years of as much as 350 days on average - so there are also some cases that lie longer. 350 days is almost a year in which matters are just lying, and that is a long time to go and wait to get through with some things. So I really hope that what we are doing here, and what we have reached an agreement on, is really a strengthening of the fact that things can go a little faster and that we can get things moving, but certainly not doing anything, I would also say that there are some areas that are suddenly getting worse because that is not the intention. It must still be the case that one takes account of nature and the environment, and what else is there, that one looks at it as a whole and then gets some holistic solutions. So, of course, we support the proposal. No doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108153746	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left Sorry, I missed that there was a brief remark. Can we take it with us? We can. Here you go, sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108153806	Thank you. I am, of course, sorry that it was at the last minute that I made a brief comment and that the rapporteur therefore had to run a little up and down from the platform. But that is because I have noticed that it is stated in the bill and that is probably the same at this time; I am not really aware of that, but I assume that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has exclusive rights to the Minister about the one person to be the future Board of Appeal who is to be a professional in the field of the environment and nature. I would like to hear from the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party whether the rapporteur considers it reasonable that the Danish Nature Conservation Association should thus have exclusive rights to one post.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108153851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108153852	It is my expectation that two names will be given and that it will then be the Minister who will choose; that two proposals will simply be made and the Minister will then be able to choose. You can always discuss whether more people should have the right to do so. I can see something fair in that. The Danish Nature Conservation Association is not the only blessing here in Denmark. I would like to point that out as quickly as possible. So I could easily see that there may be others who could contribute to it. However, it is important in any case that it is his or her competences that determine who is appointed and not where he or she comes from.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108153927	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108153929	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur that it is the competences of the person concerned that are crucial, and I also agree with the rapporteur that the Danish Nature Conservation Association is not necessarily the only blissful thing in Denmark. So I just need to confirm that I understood the rapporteur correctly, namely that the rapporteur would like to help us perhaps bring other organisations than precisely the Danish Nature Conservation Association into a list of organisations that can recommend one person to one place in the forthcoming Board of Appeal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108154000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108154001	Now this is part of an agreement that the Danish People's Party is part of, and sometimes some compromises are made, and I know this is part of the compromise that we have at least helped to reach. So I don't think that I can be a part of making changes to it like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108154018	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108154029	This is a very good bill we have before us. The main right will be dealt with a little later, namely the overall amendment of the law on plans, but here it is the complaint part that we are dealing with. I think that it is nice to see that the things on which we in the Left have been elected are also in full swing with the implementation, and this bill actually affects a number of elements of some of the electoral promises that we made from the Left to ensure a better balance for Denmark. For one thing, the liberalisation of the law on plans, on which we have a little credit, is the great debate here in the Danish Parliament, and I look forward to that, but another thing is that it is also an expression of the exodus of state jobs. I am pleased that there is a great deal of enthusiasm for the establishment of the House of Appeals in Viborg, and that the Board of Appeal set up by the bill here is located in Viborg. It is an expression of the fact that the ambition we had from the Left is being fully realised. It is, of course, a very good idea that state jobs are placed more around the whole of Denmark and not so much in the capital as we have seen in the past. It also underlines that there is a very high quality of work, because that is what is needed to ensure proper treatment, and we are also implementing the wish we had that the fees that you have to pay when you complain in this area were just a little closer to what it really costs. I believe that the average cost of such a complaint is about DKK 30,000, and we then lift the complaint fees slightly, comply with the Aarhus Convention and what we have to do now, but so you have to get a little more money out of your pocket before you complain. If you are successful or partially successful, you get your fee back. I think that is a little thoughtful, and that is very sensible. However, as I have said, it is the Board of Appeal which is all about, which is to be set up by this draft law, with a composition of 1 legal chairman, 4 laymen and 5 experts in a number of areas which will then have to decide on the areas in which it covers, and of course in a balance both between nature and the environment and growth and development, and I really think that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said it very precisely: it is not because one must be at the expense of something else, but it is essential that things are equal. It is therefore a pity that we are seeing a number of exciting projects where the necessary consideration is not taken to ensure that there can be a more positive development throughout Denmark, and the more nuanced and balanced approach that our entire political agreement of June is proposing must, of course, also be reflected in the draft law here. So we basically think it is very sensible. We will share the tasks with one on the level, something else on food and nature that the Minister for the Environment and Food will bring with us. It is placed in Viborg with the relocation of state jobs, a strong professional environment, a focus on reducing the processing times, so that the complaints that come can be dealt with quickly and effectively, so that with our responsibility in here we ensure that things work, so that it is not long response times and processing times that must stand in the way of things being clarified, so that you can either move on with the project or have to abandon it or change it. Either way, it is important that there is a quick clarification. So we basically think that this is a really sensible legislative proposal, and that is why we support it. We do so for many reasons, including: because we have gone to the polls on it and we think it is a really, really good idea. Then I have also promised to greet the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108154437	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108154445	Thank you. Then it was just about to happen again, but this time I thought I was in a little better time compared to pressing in. But that's the way it is. The rapporteur on the Left seems to be busy coming down from the platform. I think, however, that I will give Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen the opportunity, as well as I gave Mrs Pia Adelsteen the opportunity, to respond to the reasonableness of the fact that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has the exclusive right to appoint the one professional to the forthcoming Board of Appeal, which is responsible for the professionalism of nature and the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108154519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108154521	Well, I think I will give virtually the same answer as the Danish People's Party rapporteur, namely that this is a broad political agreement concluded by the Left, the Conservatives, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, and then there are things where the ends have to come together and where one has to give oneself in order to be able to land an agreement. And I do not think I am revealing so much by saying that it is not just a proposal that has grown up in our backyard, but we think that basically a very sensible division has been found between experts and medical members, so that we are sure that the balance between the various considerations that we place forward will be ensured with that composition.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108154606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108154608	Thank you for your answer. In this way, should I understand the rapporteur on the Left that it has been part of the concrete political negotiations that precisely the organisation Denmark's Nature Conservation Association should have exclusive rights on the recommendation of the Minister in relation to the appointment of the professional in the field of nature and the environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108154625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108154626	Now I think it is a good idea to leave negotiations behind closed doors behind closed doors. I note that we have an agreement with this as an element and, of course, when you are a party to the agreement, you stand by what you have agreed. There are things you're more excited about and something you're less excited about. However, it is a comprehensive package which has enabled us to achieve the liberalisation of the law on plans, which we in the Left think was a very, very good idea and which helps to ensure better development and more growth and employment. And then it becomes a unified package and, as I said, there are elements that you are more enthusiastic about than others.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108154701	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Torsten Schack Pedersen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Schack Pedersen. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108154708	In the Enhedslisten we cannot support L 42, that is to say the proposal we are debating. We share the quite extensive criticism that the Danish Nature Conservation Association raises of the bill. First of all, we find it worrying that it is being proposed that the Minister should be given the authority to determine fairly much the means of redress himself. This means, as we see it, that the Folketing is being sidetracked and that without the big sword battles and perhaps even without public attention, the Minister can make a change order. That is not reassuring, and especially not with the government we now have, which we have seen is prepared to extend very far indeed, sometimes beyond the limits of what needs to be done to take account of agriculture, and especially, of course, conventional and industrial agriculture. That's worrying. As the Danish Nature Conservation Association also points out in their consultation answer, it is unclear whether complaints related to land zone permit remain a complete review in the mention, or whether this should also be up to the Minister for Business and Growth in the future. However, we must ask questions about this in the course of further consideration. As other rapporteurs have said, there is a huge increase in the fee for complaints from DKK 500. DKK 1,800. As the Danish Nature Conservation Association also points out, it is not at all a corresponding financial burden for agriculture when it comes to complaining. In other words, there must be a fee for complaining for the sake of nature, but on the other hand there is no charge for complaining when nature threatens the interests of industrial agriculture. Expensive to complain on behalf of nature and environment; free to complain on behalf of Danish industrial agriculture. The whole agenda of this draft law is actually very well reflected in the comments in paragraph 2. 1, which states: "The complaint system must reflect a better balance between the concern for growth and development in respect of nature and the environment. Understandably: More focus on the consideration of conventional, industrial agriculture and less focus on the consideration of nature and the environment; more manure, less free nature. Unfortunately, this imbalance also manifests itself in the composition of the Board of Appeal, where the proposal requires two experts with insight into growth and business development, a cultural and landscape expert and only one expert in nature and environmental aspects. This suggests that it will ensure quite firmly that the Board of Appeal has its primary focus on growth rather than on nature and the environment. And when we talk about growth here, we are talking about growth in conventional industrial agriculture, with all the consequences we know it has for our nature and our biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155019	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155022	Thank you. I am glad that the rapporteur stayed on the floor until I had a chance to ask my question. The question is, in fact, the same as I put before the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur of the Left. 'Cause I'd also like to have Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted's assessment of whether it is reasonable that the Danish Nature Conservation Association, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted himself mentioned a moment ago, has the exclusive right to recommend to the Minister in relation to the professional to be appointed in the field of nature and the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155102	Now it is the case that when appointed to this type of board and appeal bodies, it is typically some of the leading organisations in the field that appoint. We see this in a large number of areas. Should it be that other environmental and nature organisations were also involved? It could be done, but I think it is a very common method here, in relation to comparable boards and complaints bodies.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155129	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155131	It is precisely in the draft law that the professionals, whom the rapporteur laments in the name of the professions, are appointed by a group of interest groups, whereas the professional in the field of nature and the environment is unilaterally nominated by the Danish Nature Conservation Association. I do not know whether that changes the rapporteur's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155158	We are not part of the agreement that is the basis for this. I did not see a problem in the fact that a member of several environmental organisations was appointed as such. There is probably the difference that when we talk about the industry, they have some fora where this kind of designation can take place jointly, and it may not exist to the same extent among environmental organisations. I am neither an environmental rapporteur nor an agricultural rapporteur, and I am not an expert on exactly what the situation is like there. But I will have nothing against a more diverse designation as long as the interests of the environment and nature are adequately safeguarded, and that is the problem that they are not.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155241	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155248	Thank you. I would like to begin by commending the government for the concrete initiative to set up an independent Board of Appeal, which we are dealing with first here today. The Liberal Alliance believes that the creation of a board specifically for scheduled complaints is a very fine step in the right direction, along with a collection of the various complaints bodies in one single unit of operation, namely the House of Names, under the Ministry of Business and Growth, where the process can hopefully be rationalised and streamlined for these complaints. In this way, hopefully, we can also deal with inappropriate situations, such as those we are dealing with. recently, when the current Nature and Environmental Complaints Board could not quite figure out how to prioritise a number of obvious coastal protection cases, but only got under way after hard pressure from the media and the public and possibly also from the Ministry. This type of maladministration must be brought to an end while, of course, processing times must be significantly reduced. This will probably also mean, to some extent, greater consideration being given to local conditions and, at the same time, improving the possibilities for rural development in constant harmony with nature and the environment, even without a grueling process of complaint, where a number of appeal procedures with suspensive effect can delay obvious and necessary projects such as: coast protection almost indefinitely. The proposal, however, illustrates once again the absolutely amazing special status of the Danish Nature Conservation Association in the plan area, where, as I have already pointed out a few times in the Chamber, DN has the exclusive right to suspend one member with insight into nature and environmental aspects, while the other members of the board must be appointed on the recommendation of a group of stakeholders. I have already tried a few times in this Chamber to get some statements from the various parties in this area, and I am pleased about them, but I understand that the circle of agreements is closed in this respect. Having said that, the whole reason for the proposal here is, of course, the contract complex Denmark in a better balance And why not? Because the government might just as well have chosen to call the package "Danmark" in smaller balances. As the heading of the agreement points out just now, a little better balance is being achieved, but, as I said, there is still an imbalance. The overall agreement is far too unambitious for the taste of me and the Liberal Alliance. There is far too little progress, too much social democratic status quo and a chin in Stauning's legislation from the 1920s and 1930s. Who knows? Perhaps it is a foretaste of a recently much discussed and possible future cooperation between the three current largest parties in Denmark resulting in status quo, development with mouse steps and growth in Denmark at the same level as we have seen in the last 10 years. Liberal Alliance and myself personally had among others. I would very much like to see a much greater degree of redistribution of decision-making powers in terms of the development of our rural areas, and not as it is today, and as the agreement on a minor imbalance continues to be, namely that the development of large parts of our rural areas is kept in the grip of outdated social democratic state regulation. But the present bill, L 42, of the Left Government, supports the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155716	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155720	I have some doubts: do you back up on the proposal here? I know that according to the rapporteur and the Liberal Alliance, this is the step of the mouse. But do you not, after all, think that it is a step in the right direction that something is going to happen? The Danish People's Party has no secret that many of the lines we have around Denmark were removed from the cards, for there is no godly head or tail in any of it gradually. Nevertheless, sometimes you can't get everything you want, but just a little bit, and this is after all a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155801	It's definitely a little bit. I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. As I also say, the specific proposal here is a step in the right direction, although it is a small step. I also know that the rapporteur and myself agreed on many things in the negotiations. That is why both I and my entire parliamentary group from the Liberal Alliance wondered why the government chose to make an agreement outside the Liberal Alliance in this regard. Because, as I see it, there was, in fact, a majority of the parliamentary parties in order to make a more ambitious agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155846	The questioner? No. We would like to thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108155859	After a very political and ideological speech in every way, I would also like to point out that I believe there are political differences when we in the alternative just have to say that we cannot support this bill. It is simply a political disagreement that is based on many of the things that have been said by Enhedslisten earlier on this day. that this is a biased priority, also directly in terms of wording, in the legislative text, which seeks to create a Plan Complaints Board which provides a better balance, so that growth and development are given priority over nature and the environment. It does not say literally that this should be a priority, but that there should be a better balance between the two. In the way it is designed, we are quite convinced that it is then a Board of Appeal which must give priority and create better conditions at the expense of nature and the environment, and we cannot support that. Then we have mentioned in the past what it costs to file a complaint. There, too, we think it is inappropriate for food and agriculture to be free of charge, while in the natural and environmental fields, I think it was a 300 per cent increase in costs. Having said that and this disagreement is very clearly stated, I would say that there is also fairness and fairness in many of the elements. I understand the intention of many of the measures and that, of course, a reasonable balance must be struck in supporting and helping businesses and tourism around the country. But to make a Board of Appeal, which is politicized in this way, in its starting point and foundation, we cannot in any way support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108160044	Mrs Pia Adelsteen to the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108160048	I am very surprised that the alternative seems to us to be the setting up of a Preparatory Complaints Board, which has been politicised. Well, we're actually trying to make a better balance. It could then be said, with the same right, that what exists at this time is political. For there is nature and the environment that are certainly not on equal terms with development, but nature and the environment that are above. Then we can just say on the alternative side: that is what we are giving priority to; that is how we want it to be. I think that's fair enough. But to say that this is not a police mission, I think it's really wrong. Because, yes, of course we're politicians. I guess that's why we're here. At least I'm a politician, that's why I'm here. And of course I have some opinions that when you do something in the country, even out there where the crows turn, you actually get a better balance between some development and some opportunities in combination with nature and the environment. But nowhere in this bill does it say that it is at the expense of nature and the environment. I am just surprised that the alternative thinks that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108160147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108160149	I completely accept that. It must be an interpretation by me and the Alternative that we see it as something that goes beyond nature and the environment. We see the priority in the way the board is to be organised politicized or not: that there is a single source of expertise for nature and the environment, that is to say, to defend those interests while there are two from industry and development. There doesn't have to be anything wrong with that. I'm just saying that our interpretation of that is that the initiatives we've seen from the government and also heard in the playout around this whole relocation, in our view, are at the expense of nature and the environment. And if you make a balance where you find that it is best for Denmark to do so, then that is fair enough. In the alternative, we just think that this is not the right direction. So we are just standing there as political disagreements. Our interpretation of all that lies in this agreement is that it is simply at the expense of some of the existing good in nature and the environment. That is not to say that we want evil in nature and the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108160249	It is right now that this is the second brief comment on Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108160251	Thank you. But that just puzzles me, because it means that if you sit and have some work experience, some growth experience, etc., an economic professionalism or whatever it may be that focuses on growth, then you are not for nature and the environment. Well, I can understand that. So someone like me, accountant and something like that certainly doesn't like woods and stuff like that. I'm now the daughter of an old woodsman, I just want to say, so I love woods, so maybe that's a bad example. I believe that you can create something in the countryside, that you can create something in the forests and out, where there is nature, of course, with regard to nature and the environment, but I understand that nature and the environment are always affected. That is the premise that is being put forward, and I simply do not accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108160339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108160340	That's where I think we're in a lot of the same boat. I even believe that the rapporteur's family relationship is more in nature and the environment than mine. Well, I know very, very little about nature and the environment. I only have one career behind me, and I would very much like to drive growth forward if otherwise there is also a balance on the environmental bottom line. So it's not like I'm thinking that you want nature to do something bad. I'm just thinking that the balance one wants to create, in the alternative, we disagree with, in other words, that there has to be that primacy on these points. We think there is, but I can then hear that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party does not think there is. It is believed that there is a fine balance, and then we just disagree on that. We think we have seen repeated examples of this not being the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108160418	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108160428	Planning is a recurring discussion, and it can easily sound as if you are such a communist who wants a planned economy because you like planning. If you just think about and try to go home in the family and think about how planning is now, it is actually quite good that we in Denmark have a rather detailed planning that we think about many things when we plan. We are thinking in general, we are both trying to think of where we want nature, where we want industry, where we want villages to live, where we want open shores without too much construction. That is what we agree with each other in planning. This is what means that Denmark does not look like the Netherlands, for example, where the cities have largely flown together and you cannot tell the difference between the city and the country. That's what makes us in Denmark have some unique open shores that we still have merchants around the country that we have city centers with lives in. So planning is basically the consideration of the whole. It is that it is not some gain that wins over the well-being of the many. That's why you have to remember it when you talk planning. What the government would like to do with this proposal is to say the small model of what the Left has long dreamed of. I don't think that's a secret, and I can see that the Minister is smiling at me a little bit. Left wanted to get rid of all the nonsense about planning. They really just think that you should be allowed to build something like that, and then you'll be okay. Although we are a relatively small country with relatively little space, and where some of us, when there comes a little carambola with nature, well know who generally loses that battle. Fortunately, the Left did not manage to get away with the horror catalogue that they have presented to the Danes here recently, but yet they did get some things through in their agreement with the Social Democracy, DF and Conservatives, and I would like to say that I really do understand that one can go along with such an agreement and weed out so many thorn bushes, but I have no particular urge for us to have a completely new board of complaints in the field of plan. I do not think it is particularly wise to separate nature planning from the planning area. In fact, I would much rather think in terms of the whole, think things together, rather than start running it into two systems. I can see a lot of discussion already in this area by making two different decisions on something that can actually relate to both plan and nature. We need to think things more together, not to separate them. In addition, I'm also worried about the balance of this board. I really think it is an exciting idea and sensible to bring in something more professional, so that it does not just become a political judgement on such a board. I myself, as a minister, have been given some of the very same Nature and Environmental Complaints Boards, and where it might be possible to discuss whether it was quite the right decision in legal terms, but there was certainly that decision, and we had to put up with it. So I can understand very well that you would like to have some more professionalism in these boards. This could have been done without separating the names into two parts. I would also like to say that it is the case with nature and the whole that there are few who speak for it. Those who are passionate about things are often those who want to build something, and those who later discover that hooves that are being built do not always have so many voices, and therefore it makes sense to give nature a fairly pronounced place, a rather pronounced voice, both when we plan and when we decide afterwards on any complaints. It's gonna be very central to who's being appointed to this board. I think that, if we support this proposal, we could tighten up the fact that there should be even clearer recommendations to the Minister for the various professions, so that it does not become an appointment that is too politicised by the professional members. I also think that the fact that there are only four lay members is worth considering. Is it only the four largest parties that should have their voices heard here? And so the fact that you choose to raise the fees so significantly for ordinary people when they have to complain is certainly also a matter of legal certainty. So we are not prepared to support this proposal by the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108160844	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108160901	Both the proposal to remove complaints concerning spatial planning from the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board and to create an independent Board of Complaints and L 44 on the merger of the Food Complaints Board and the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board is a logical consequence of the government's wish that planning for the sake of nature and the environment and landscape should be subject to considerations of agriculture, growth and to what the government understands by development ^ a better balance, the government calls it. In the same way, the Government has announced a modernisation of the planning law with the Minister of Industry as a pen driver. We think it was unreasonable for the government to move the planning and spatial planning to the Ministry of Business and Growth, but we understand that the government would like to move the spatial planning away from the Ministry of the Environment. It makes sense, in fact, according to the government's concept of growth, in the same way as it makes sense to involve the Ministry of Food in the Ministry of the Environment if you want to take into account agricultural interests over nature and the environment. Instead of moving the Plan Act to the Minister of Business, it would have been more logical, according to SF, to move business interests in the Ministry of Food to the Ministry of Business and Growth. So the government's two draft laws on changes in the complaint system make sense for the Left Government and others who support old-fashioned growth over nature and the environment, but SF cannot support the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108161029	No one has asked for brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the Minister for Industry and Growth. I call the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108161043	Thank you for that and thank you for the many comments on the bill. I feel set aside at the time when I had the pleasure of being Minister for the Environment. It is obviously a little more exciting to discuss environmental policy than business policy. The discussion is getting a little more lively, but it is only good that it does. Let me start by saying that the purpose of this bill is to set up a new Board of Appeal in the field of planning, with an independent professional environment in the field of spatial planning. The Board of Appeal will deal with complaints in the area of the plan which are currently being dealt with by the Nature and Environment Complaints Board, while the new Environmental and Food Complaints Board, established by a separate legislative proposal from the Minister for the Environment and Food, will deal with complaints in the field of the environment and food. As many have said today, this is a follow-up to the political agreement that was made by a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament, consisting of the Social Democracy, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and as the Left as the governing party, back in June 2016. I have no doubt that this new Board of Appeal will support a better balance between the considerations of growth and development and, of course, also the considerations of nature and the environment. It must also have an independent professional environment in the field of spatial planning. Therefore, the Board of Appeal is composed of legal, experts and medical board members. The President of the Court of Justice, together with a national judge, must ensure a high legal level in the decisions of the Court of Justice. The five members of the board of directors shall contribute professionally to planning, growth and development, landscape and cultural conditions and environmental and natural conditions. And the 4 medical board members are appointed by the Folketing and are to represent general social considerations. In many ways it is an interesting debate for me today, because I had the pleasure of suggesting, when I was Minister for the Environment, that the Environmental Complaints Board and the Nature Complaints Board should be brought together. At that time we had a long debate. Now I have not managed to refresh what Mrs Ida Auken meant at that time, and it is also because it is the end of the day, so I do not remember what the SF thought about this proposal at the time. But you can at least say that I have had a number of opinions on this. At the time, I argued that it might be a good idea to make the fusion. I must also say that we have seen challenges with the structure we have had in recent years, and that is why, unfortunately, we have also seen that citizens and businesses have used a great deal of effort and resources to get a decision. And as Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party said, there has been a time of proceedings that has varied a lot, and a time of proceedings that is also too long, and we cannot be familiar with citizens and companies. That is also why we are now making a joint placement of the Board of Appeal in what we call the House of Names in Viborg, and it is of course also crucial that we focus on making decisions and that cases should not lie and wait for years. We simply cannot be familiar with this. That is why it is my clear view, and I would also like to say this today at first reading, that I have an ambition that, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also said, the length of the proceedings should be, on average, in the environmental and natural fields and, for that matter, also in the field of planning, for these six months. I think that is a good objective to work for, and it also helps to ensure that we do not experience the great variations in how long it takes for matters to be dealt with. Then it is also true, as some have said, that we will also increase the fee for complaints. The current complaint fee will be increased and will then return to the level that it had roughly under the previous government, when we also raised the complaint fees. If you complain and are successful, you get the money back, but it is clear that for those who complain and fail, it is so that they cannot get the money back. I would also like to make it clear that the increased appeal fee is set on the basis of a balance between the need to ensure that the appeal fee under the Aarhus Convention is not insurmountablely expensive and the need to create more reasonable processing times in this area. In fact, I think that this proposal helps both to create more flexibility, but not least to make decisions more transparent and thus also to ensure that both citizens and businesses are better off without compromising the interests of nature and the environment. You can be concerned with both growth and development without compromising nature and environmental interests. Fortunately, this is possible in the country in which we live.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108161533	There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108161537	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I also think that I should just like to give the Minister the opportunity to comment on the reasonableness of the fact that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has the exclusive right to nominate the persons to be appointed to the Minister, who is to be appointed to the forthcoming Planning Board with specialty in nature and the environment, whereas the other Members, as I also pointed out in my rapporteur's speech, are appointed by means of a recommendation from several organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108161613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108161614	But it is true, as several rapporteurs have said, that this is part of a political agreement, and this is the first legislative proposal, and now there will be a huge discussion in a few weeks' time when we present the entire draft law, which is also part of the political agreement we have made. I am probably, at least in the general public, well known for this, many people think to be an arg opponent, I can see, of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, and they have, of course, the black belt in running campaigns against me. But that is why one can respect that there is also a professionalism at the Danish Nature Conservation Association, and I have no problem with them being allowed to set someone who can help sit around the table. I have no reason to believe that those who may be appointed from the Danish Nature Conservation Association should have, if you may say so, a particularly bad political ballast in relation to being there. But it is clear that we can discuss it. After all, there is also a hearing answer asking whether you should not have had more people to choose from. But I don't think that's it, sir. Carsten Bach should be most interested in. He's allowed to, but sir... Carsten Bach also came to the conclusion that although it was a minimal step in the right direction, it was still so great that even the Liberal Alliance too, I had to understand, thought the whole construction was a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108161730	Sir. Christian Bach does not wish to make another brief comment, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108161752	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108161811	Thank you. With this bill, congratulations to 2,381 new citizens. We fulfill 2,381 of our friends, neighbors, colleagues and family members' desire to be able to call themselves Danes. On the part of the Social Democrats, I would like to say a big and warm congratulations. We look forward to sharing both the duties and rights of citizenship with you. We are discussing this bill in the wake of yet another of the many debates on Danishism and what it really means to be Danish. It is a debate which, far along the way, divides the waters and brings out strong feelings. It is really a pity that this is the case most often, because it is an important and important debate. It is far too important to record only certain votes on the right. It requires more votes, including from you who today acquire citizenship. What does it mean to be Danish? Yes, we can take the purely legal line: you are Danish if you have Danish citizenship. Danishness is not a static size. Some fundamental values are today firmly established as Danish values and principles that have neither fallen from the sky nor come out of the Danish soil: democracy, freedom of expression, equality, children's independent rights, the rule of law, the primacy of science over faith. These are the cornerstones of our modern Denmark, and this has been achieved as a result of political struggles and disputes through Danish history. Thus there were strong forces in Denmark who opposed democracy, who opposed the most people having access to power, and when censorship was abolished, only a few years passed before it was introduced again, and we had to wait until the arrival of the Constitution before freedom of expression and freedom from censorship became part of the Danish again. Women's access to democracy did not come of itself either; on the contrary, a hard and long fight had to be waged against a basic notion that the man spoke for women and that women could not cope at all with being a part of political life. And children's right to a childhood of play, schooling and a life without beating was also something that had to be fought bravely for. That is how one can review each of the values and principles we take for granted today as fundamental to the Danish. They are not under discussion today, but that has not always been the case. This is not the end of the matter either, for as well as they have not come of themselves, they do not continue to consist of themselves either. Free and equal access to free health, education and education, care and security for the elderly are fundamental parts of Danish today, which constitute the basic idea of a tax-financed welfare society. It is a model of society in which people provide according to their ability and enjoy according to their needs and where the broadest shoulders bear the heaviest burdens. In the Danish model, where proper pay and working conditions are collectively guaranteed, the degree of organisation is high, and that is a model that means that in Denmark we do not have and do not want a labour market without a bottom with a huge illegal, poor underclass as we know it from other countries in Europe. It is all something that is basic Danish and that we must and must hold on to, and that we also expect you new Danes are also part of. All this requires more votes in the debate, today, tomorrow, in the future, again and again. We must all help define the unique Danish. That cannot and must not be a static size reserved for the few to define. The fundamental values and principles we stand by, we fight for them, we expect support from everyone who will count on Danish. In addition, we all share in defining each day. Now it is not only your right to be in charge of Denmark, it is also your duty to add to the joint discussions your own experiences, that is to say to take part in the debate. At the end of the day, I would like to congratulate all of you who have worked so hard for your names to be on this bill. Of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108162200	No one has asked for brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108162209	There is a crucial consideration which we in the Danish People's Party believe should be taken into account when granting Danish citizenship or Danish citizenship, namely the consideration of Denmark and the Danish people. Looking forward for decades, it is not just about what Denmark looks like now, but certainly also about how Denmark will look like in 10 and 20 and 50 years. It's easy to hand out citizenship if that's what you want. You can bathe in the spotlight of the press, make yourself known that you are a very humane and self-sacrificing person who loves the whole world and therefore wants citizenship for most people. It is traditionally the left who has patented the goodness and leads themselves as saved Pharisees belonging to the party of goodness and justice, while they refer all of us on the right to the nasty hooks where dark men and basement men are driving their shady, anti-human games. The fact is that the true right, which I believe I belong to through the Danish People's Party, has always assumed the sometimes unpopular responsibility of thinking back in history and thinking forward. So, what kind of Denmark do we want to preserve, and what kind of Denmark do we want to pass on to our descendants? The lovely country in which we enjoy living today has become more than a thousand years old, with the impact of significant events such as this one. People's rule that changed our country. We have inherited that country and are obliged to pass on, protecting all the good that Denmark represents, and judiciously correcting it worse by improving it. There is no doubt that the last 40-50 years of immigration have changed and will change Denmark forever. There is no doubt that there are of course success stories between, but all in all it has helped to dissolve the popular cohesion, dissolve the values on which Denmark is founded, thereby creating a much more uncertain and fateful future for our descendants. There is no doubt that everything has been given, too many citizenships over time, and that it has also promoted a process of dissolution. Most of all, because too many have been given. Are all the thousands of people who have acquired Danish citizenship really Danish? Is the imam Abu Bilal, who called for stoning in the broadcast "Mosques behind the veil" really Dane? He's got citizenship. We believe that over the years too many citizenships have been given, and that is why we have also been pleased with the absolutely necessary tightenings that came in 2015. We just still believe that there are too many citizenships. The bill in question gives 2,381 citizenships. In addition, there are 763 children, so it will be approx. 3,000 in total. We shall vote in favour of the agreement we have reached, but we would like to see things tightened up once again so that some sort of ceiling is created. We actually think we owe it to Denmark, and we think we owe it to the Danish descendants who are going to live here after us. We say 'yes' to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108162604	No one has asked for brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left as the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108162618	Thank you. I always get a little proud when I stand on the platform when we deal with these laws on citizenship, as it is called. Because what we are talking about is that a number of people think that Denmark is so lovely a country that they want to be Danish citizens, and that makes you a little bit proud of it. Today we must congratulate a great many people when a great wish comes true for them, because it is today that we give citizenship to 2,381, and that is what is called people in the text of the bill and 763 children. Maybe you'll think that kids are some kind of people, too. That is also true, but the reason why one makes a distinction is that they 2.381 are people who acquire independent citizenship and the 763 children then get it through their parents. That's the explanation for it. As you can follow the debate and find out, we have a broad agreement here in the Folketing on how we deal with these matters. It is the case that on 5 October back in 2015, together with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, we entered into a new agreement on citizenship, and that means that today we can all vote in favour of the bill before us. Even so, sir. Christian Langballe's side was a reserved yes, I would say that a yes is a yes. It's like when you go to the exam, where a little 10 is as good as a big 10. So I am pleased with the broad support and that we should not, as much as necessary, tear each other's heads apart, I think, in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108162804	So we thank the rapporteur because no one has asked to ask questions or to comment. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108162813	Thank you. Of course, we also support the bill and congratulate the citizens who have now come through the needle's eye and are allowed to get the red beet passport and are allowed to become Danish citizens. Of course, I say needle's eye on purpose, because it's really a needle's eye. It is no secret that for many it has been a very long struggle to get this passport, even one because it is no secret that we think too many people are prevented from becoming Danish citizens and there are too many foolish obstacles. I have to say that I am, for example. It is foolish that one should be tested in when Carl Nielsen was born or what year the Olsen-Band had premiered. I do not see that it should in any way be crucial to obtain Danish citizenship. I also believe that we are making demands on the Danish language, which is so tough that we are actually going to discriminate against some people who have come here with very few school experience, i.e. illiterate, such as the United Kingdom. has not had school behind him. I've just been on a fantastic exciting visit to the FAKTI women's centre, located on Nørrebro, for women with immigrant backgrounds. A great many of the women who have practically all refugee backgrounds have not attended school in their home country, and for them it is very, very difficult to get close to Danish 3. We must then ask ourselves whether it is desirable that we have a large group of citizens in Danish society who are not Danish citizens. It is certainly not desirable for me to see that, apart from the fact that, of course, it has consequences for them personally, for example. that it is very difficult to travel. The red beet-colored Danish passport gives visas to virtually all countries. Many of these people have serious problems visiting families, and there are also young people who are prevented from going on study trips or study abroad. In addition to that, it also means that these people are prevented from voting in parliamentary elections. I just have to say that I think that if you want to strengthen democracy, it must be a wish and an independent purpose for as many people as possible to have access to that democracy. I believe that with the rules that have been made by a broad majority in the Folketing, the right and the Socialists, for what it takes to obtain Danish citizenship, we create too many obstacles for many people in our society, with the result that we have a large group of citizens who do not have access to democracy. In fact, I believe that this is detrimental to the cohesion of our country. Of course, that does not change the fact that, as I said, it is positive for the people who have now got through this needle's eye, and congratulations to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108163131	No one has asked for brief comments. I would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108163147	Thank you. The debate on Danishness is raging. When can you call yourself Danish, and what does it even mean to be Danish? Should you be born in Denmark, is it enough to be born in Denmark, or is it about subscribing to a special set of values? The debate is both emotional and sometimes somewhat pseudo-like. Divineness is alive and evolving. It does so because the Constitution allows us Danes to unfold and influence the development of society: we have democratic choices; we have to believe in who we want or what we want; we have to gather and demonstrate; and we have to express ourselves fairly freely. It is our freedoms that benefit all Danes. Those rights are precious and form the foundation of our democracy and our national community. Danish citizenship thus follows both rights and obligations. The duties are, among other things, that one is loyal to the constitution, that one can speak Danish and show a positive interest and knowledge about Denmark. Among the rights is a formal ticket to take part in democracy, namely the right to vote. To all of you who, with the adoption of this bill, acquire Danish citizenship, I would like to congratulate you warmly, and I look forward to meeting you as active participants in the living democracy that you are now becoming a part of. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108163319	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108163329	Thank you. With the adoption of this bill, 2,381 adults and 763 children are granted Danish citizenship. Getting Danish citizenship is a huge and joyous event both for the individual new citizen of Denmark, but also for our democracy and our society. These about... For 2,400 people are now being given the opportunity to take part in our democratic life, and they are being given the full range of democratic rights that each one has as a Danish citizen. Like any other Danish citizen, they will also have the opportunity to participate in the decisions and discussions we have in society, thereby giving them the full right to take part in our common society. That is why I am also extremely pleased to be here today for my party and, together with the rest of the parties in the Folketing, to see that all the parties in the Folketing say very warm congratulations to these people and say yes to them, and personally I am very excited to be able to welcome these people on the citizenship day, to which we in the Folketing invite in the spring. So from my side, I just want to say a big and heartwarming congratulations to all these new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108163459	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur, Mrs Lotte Rod, is on my list. That does not seem to be the case. I hear word from the Radicals. All right, then the next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF. Then we should be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108163529	Thank you. I'll be brief. On behalf of the SF, I would like to congratulate the new citizens. When I was appointed to the Danish Parliament last year, I met a great many new Danes on the street • new Danes who were very keen to talk about Danish society and democracy, but also Danes who had not been given the right to vote in the parliamentary elections, because they still lacked citizenship. It was new Danes that I knew from my local area, and I had not even thought about how much it meant to them that they also got codecision when we had to put together our Parliament, and thus directly influence the Danish society. But that is what makes all the difference in a real democracy, namely that we have the right and the opportunity to influence the society in which we live and to which we ourselves contribute. I just want to say a really big congratulations to all of you. I look forward to meeting you on citizenship day, and SF will of course vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108163639	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108163647	I would like to start by saying that I should welcome Johanne and say that she should greet the Radicals and say that they support the proposal. So do we. Congratulations to the 2,381 citizens who have formally become Danish citizens. We think it is important that people who have contributed positively to this society are rewarded, and there are many who make a positive contribution. They keep their doors quiet, and we rarely appreciate their efforts. It is important to remember that there are a lot of people who want Denmark. Unfortunately, there are also those who do not want Denmark and who have some basic positions about overthrowing our democracy. We're gonna be obsessed with them. I do not think you should have citizenship. But first you become a formal citizen and then you start the next steps, and they are that you have to gradually show loyalty to and belonging to this society. These are the next stages in which we hope that many of those citizens will also enter. All in all, we support the proposal and congratulate the new citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108163809	I would like to thank the rapporteur, who also made a trip around the Radical Left, and, despite the formal framework, we recognise that in this company you can be a little more round when you refer to a colleague than you might otherwise be in a more formal context. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108163846	The debate is open. And I shall begin by giving the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108163911	The motion for a resolution by the Social Democratic Party requires the government to propose a solution to ensure that inheriting violent spouses cannot have a new spouse in Denmark. This is true even if the husband and wife have not been convicted of violence. In other words, the proposers propose that there should not necessarily be a verdict on the violence in the marriage; it is enough that the person who lives here is documentably violent, as expressed in the proposal. The proposers propose a scheme to apply to persons who have previously engaged in violence against a foreign spouse. On the other hand, violence against a Danish spouse is not covered by the proposal. It's a little weird in itself. I fully agree with the authors of the motion that violence and other acts of violence in a marriage or in a relationship with one another are totally unacceptable. This also applies, of course, to cases where violence is carried out against a foreign spouse who comes to Denmark as part of marriage. Of course, we cannot have a resident spouse taking advantage of the vulnerable situation of his foreign spouse in this way, and I take a strong stand against the times when it happens. There is, therefore, certainly a need to take into account the need to protect the foreign spouse. This is particularly true for the person concerned to be able to live a free life and integrate into Denmark. That is also why we already have a rule in the Aliens Act which protects us from marital violence and other abuses. Under this rule, marriage cannot normally be reunited if the resident has been convicted in the last 10 years of violence or the like against a former spouse. And we also have a rule that ensures that in a case involving a marriage permit, special consideration must be given to whether or not a marriage has ended as a result of a violent marriage. In other words, I fully share the praiseworthy consideration given to the foreign spouse, who is behind this motion for a resolution. However, I believe that the proposal cannot be implemented, for two reasons in particular. Firstly, the motion for a resolution envisages a system which should only apply in cases where the resident spouse has been violent against a foreign spouse. This will mean that persons who have committed violence against a foreign spouse are discriminated against in relation to persons who have committed violence against a Danish spouse. This therefore raises important questions in relation to the prohibition of discrimination in Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Secondly, the motion for a resolution proposes that the spouse in question should not have been convicted of violence, in other words that there should be no judgment. After all, it is an essential principle that anyone accused of an offence should be considered innocent until his or her guilt has been proved. It follows from Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and is probably also usually a fairly fundamental principle in Denmark. The present arrangement would mean that the Foreigners' Board would have to examine and assess whether the resident spouse has now also been truly violent. It may be based on information from a former spouse. However, there may also be cases where, following a police investigation into the case, it appears that there is no evidence to support the accusation. With the proposed system, the Foreigners' Board's assessment would have to be carried out without a police investigation of the case, that is, without the evidence normally carried out in the courts and without the same means of defending oneself as if one were accused in a court of law. Thus, under the proposed scheme, the resident spouse would be deprived of rights if, for example, the Foreigner's Board of Directors were to decide whether or not to grant the right. On the basis of a police report, the person has committed a criminal offence even if the person is neither charged with, prosecuted nor convicted of the relationship. This raises serious questions in relation to the presumption of innocence in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled. This is not to say that the government will not be willing to see whether there can be any other action to protect against a resident violent spouse from bringing a new foreign spouse to Denmark. Specifically, we are looking first at whether practices can be tightened up as to when police reports are being made in cases where a foreigner claims to be subjected to violence or other abuse by his or her spouse. I would therefore like to call the parties for a debate on this when we have come a little further into the considerations we are currently considering.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108164512	Thank you, Minister. There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108164520	Thank you for the Minister's speech and, in particular, thank you for the last one, namely the announcement that the parties will be invited to discuss how we can deal with this problem. With this I also interpret that the government recognises that we have a problem in Denmark. For it is by no means all men, typically men, who are condemned for the violent acts of marriage and cohabitation, and therefore there is a possibility that they will be able to reunite their spouses on the basis of current legislation, and thus the concerns and criticisms raised by the Land Organisation of Women's Crisis Centres are real enough. So I really need to know whether the government recognises that we have a political problem here that needs political solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108164610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108164610-2	In any case, I think we should discuss this openly, because again I would say that any form of violence in any form of cohabitation is totally unacceptable. And it is clear that if you pick up, for example, it is quite in the air. a woman to Denmark, violence against her, puts her in an extremely vulnerable situation to get a new woman to Denmark. So, of course, we're gonna have to look at it. But I must also say that this proposal has simply not been worked through as it stands. Imagine with this proposal that a Danish woman will be able to use violence to bring a foreign woman here, but you will not be able to violence a foreign woman to bring a new foreign woman here. It was then a strange form to stand up and say that there can be violence on Danish women, but not on foreign women. I mean, we shouldn't be in a situation of violence at all. So there are some huge flaws and gaps in this, and so we usually also have a principle in Denmark that you are guilty only after a judgment has been handed down.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108164721	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108164724	In the specific proposal we put forward in the motion for a resolution, we expressly state that it could, but I am sure we will have time to discuss that. What I would like to ask the Minister is this: when the Minister emphasizes Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights that one is innocent until proven otherwise, it must surely be an expression of the Minister's view that the model we outline in our resolution would be a punishment, otherwise it would not make sense to discuss guilt. If it were to be a punishment, it would be an expression of us depriving people of their rights. So what right is it that we take people away if, on the basis of information, the Foreigners' Board should have the opportunity to make such an assessment and thus deny them the reunification of their spouses?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108164821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108164821-2	Normally, here at home we have a principle that it is primarily the police who are investigating, and then it is the courts who are judging and that it is not the Foreigners' Authority that is judging on the basis of assumptions. So it's a weird way of putting things up as it's done here. There is no one in this Chamber who believes that violence should be used against spouses, and therefore it is important that we now meet, try to discuss this problem, see how big it really is, instead of talking us apart now. But I just want to say that what is in this proposal is simply not well worked out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108164900	Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for short comments in addition. The next speaker is the first rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108164918	Thank you so much. Basically, the proposal is that men with a history of violence against their foreign spouse should not have the opportunity to bring a new wife to Denmark. If the proposal is adopted, it will mean that before the end of this year the Folketing will require the government to present a solution to ensure that resident spouses who have previously committed violence against a foreign spouse cannot again be notified of family reunification with a new foreign spouse, and that sounds quite reasonable and therefore quite reasonable to the Danish People's Party. So we take a positive view of the proposal. This is not something that has a great effect in terms of limiting the influx to Denmark, doing something about mass immigration, which we in the Danish People's Party clearly think is the most important thing. We may be talking about a handful of people a year who might be affected by the proposal • I could imagine • but I think it is a very reasonable proposal, so we are in a positive way. If we were to have some comments on the individual parts, it might be that we are going to have a ten-year waiting period. For our sake, you could set it up to 30 years or for that matter longer. However, we look forward to the committee reading and if this proposal is put to the vote in the Assembly, we shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165032	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165038	I could understand that the reason why the Danish People's Party intends to vote in favour of this resolution is that it seems reasonable and reasonable. Then I would like to ask whether Martin Henriksen can explain to me the reasonable and reasonable thing about the fact that if you beat your Danish wife, you can have family reunion with a foreign spouse, but if you beat a foreign wife, you cannot. What is reasonable and reasonable about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165106	An amendment to this motion for a resolution can be tabled and that will be taken into account. So we have time to deal with this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165114	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165116	Now I asked whether it was reasonable and reasonable. I assume, then, that I should understand the answer, that you do not think it is. Was it not an idea, then, that perhaps one had read the resolution before it was tabled and had thought it through a bit and had seen whether it could be done at all? I must admit that I think that this motion for a resolution seems irresponsible, that it seems unworkable, and let me point out that we are therefore in the Folketing and not at some youth organisation's national conference.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165147	It is a constructive contribution that the Left makes. We can always accuse each other of being irresponsible. Well, I think you should deal with the problem. I don't know if Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has done it, but I assume that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has. If you regularly visit shelters around Denmark, you know that this is a problem. This is a proposal on how to solve this problem. I think that should be acknowledged, and I think that should be taken into account. It is something that affects very few people. In my view, this is a less restrictive approach in the field of foreigners, which is quite reasonable. The reason why we have a parliamentary committee is precisely to be able to clarify it when someone raises something in the Assembly, which could be what Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and the Minister have mentioned that if, for example, we are going to have to do something about it, we are going to have to do something about it. It would also be very advantageous if the law were then designed in such a way that it also made it impossible to bring a foreign spouse to Denmark. We can clarify that during the committee procedure, and then that argument against the motion for a resolution will fall away, and the Left could support it in that way too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165245	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165256	I have great sympathy for the Social Democratic intention of this proposal, namely that we should make it more difficult for resident violent spouses to get a new spouse to Denmark through marriage. We in the Left have the utmost understanding of that intention, provided, of course, that it takes place within a secure framework of legal certainty. For the same reason, the government, again to protect women, has recently raised the penalties for convicted people, for example. rape. Most people in the Folketing may not be opposed to a good and effective model that protects those women who in future can be associated with a person who has already been convicted of violence in a previous marriage, and that is precisely where the problem arises. That is precisely not what the Social Democrats are calling for. Indeed, the Social Democrats want us to punish, sanction people who have not been convicted, and this goes against one of our most fundamental principles here in Denmark, which is the presumption of innocence. It ensures that we are all innocent until our guilt is proven, and in our Danish democracy it is only a court that can pass judgment of this kind. So I am quite astonished to hear the Social Democrats' proposals here today. It is a proposal which indirectly suggests that, in some cases, when it comes to judgment, there is in fact no need for our courts. If so, who will place guilt and punishment? Who exactly does the Social Democratic Party want to replace our courts with? Is this a shelter? Is that a counselor? Are they the ones who should be able to go in and point to a potentially violent man and say guilty or not guilty? I really think that is denouncing our rule of law. Then I had the pleasure of debating with the rapporteur this morning in P1, and there I heard the rapporteur say: yes, yes, but we are simply asking for an inquiry into whether this is possible. But, frankly, we have talked about this in depth, and the Ministry of Justice has drafted a draft which underlines that this proposal could run counter to our basic legal certainty. So what exactly does the Social Democratic Party want? In your proposal, you write directly that you want to impose a solution on the government, which I quote now: " ensure that the resident spouse, without having been convicted, cannot be reassigned to family reunification. So what the motion for a resolution says is far more than just examining it. It is proposed that this should be implemented directly; that a solution should be found where a non-judged person can be sanctioned. So I also hope to be able to clarify on the part of the rapporteur whether the Social Democracy, if and perhaps on the day the Social Democracy comes into government, is actually going to implement this as literally as it says in the proposal. In addition, as the Minister has already noted, the model will discriminate against foreign spouses in relation to Danish spouses. Because according to this model, it will be legal for a Danish man to commit violence against a Danish wife as long as he has not been convicted, but that is not the case if it is a foreign wife. I think this proposal is very incoherent in a number of areas. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that the Left shares the proposers' intention to protect foreign victims of violence. I think all parties in the Folketing have an interest in that. So, in this light, I am pleased that the Minister is willing to look at other measures to ensure that inherited convicted violent spouses are not allowed to bring a new spouse to Denmark. But let us do this in a way that does not undermine our Danish legal system and courts. That is what we think the Social Democrats' proposal does, and that is why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165657	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165700	Thank you. Now the rapporteur of the Left says that the Ministry of Justice has made a note describing that this violates fundamental principles of legal certainty. I would be very pleased to see a piece of paper with the logo of the Ministry of Justice stating that no solutions can be drawn up to prevent spouses whose ex-wife has left them from being able to have a new marriage. I would be very happy to see the Ministry of Justice logo on a piece of paper on that. But then to my question: it is already the case today that the Foreign Affairs Agency, for example. assess whether a pro-form marriage has been concluded. After all, it is not the courts that judge it. People with a completely clean criminal record can be told that they are not being brought together because the authorities assess that it is a pro form marriage without a conviction. So, as the rapporteur says today from the platform, does the Left also want that provision to go away?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165803	Thank you. Let me take the last one first. These are two very different things. The fact that a person can be punished for violence is, I know, only something that can be done by a court of law. So I don't think you can compare the two things across. In relation to the Ministry of Justice, I do not have the note in front of me here, but it poses a whole series of questions to the proposal made here by the Social Democratic Party. In relation to legal certainty, I would say that judging a person bypassing a court does not mean that one can in Denmark. In relation to what the Minister said, the fact that there is discrimination in relation to whether there is a Danish or a foreign spouse, I would say that this is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. So it's not just one thing that sticks out a little, this makes all the alarm bells in the field of democracy and legal certainty ring at once. Of course we understand the intention, that is also why we have had a dialogue on this for several months, because we want to try to meet what is the intention of the Social Democracy, but the solution that the Social Democracy comes up with here is completely outside the scope.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165909	Sir. Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108165910	Thank you very much for your answer. I agree that this discussion raises a large number of questions. I also note that a law professor at the University of Copenhagen says that this can easily be done. That is why we are asking the government to present solutions, to make a legal assessment so that the parties can have this discussion on a qualified basis, because I cannot discuss on the basis that the rapporteur from the Left has a note from the Ministry of Justice. We all have to have the same basis, and that is why we are asking the government to put forward solutions that we can all discuss on the basis of. Then the rapporteur says that we cannot judge people. No, we're not saying that people should get a verdict, we're just saying that in case their ex-wife left them because of violence and the authorities think that it can be documented, they shouldn't be per. automatic having a new spouse family reunification, then it should be possible for the Foreigners' Board to make an assessment. It's just like when you make an assessment in terms of pro-marriage or when you make an assessment in terms of cousin marriages. The Foreigners' Board keeps making assessments that are the basis for marriage and family reunifications, but when it comes to violence in marriages, it seems that the Left is a little more reserved than when it comes to pro-form marriages or cousin-cousin marriages.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108170020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108170021	This is rather the same as the question put by the rapporteur before. I do not think it is possible to compare a verdict on violence to whether a cousin-cousin marriage is legitimate. These are two very different things. In addition, the Minister has said that we are open to looking at other proposals. But what the rapporteur says is, of course, and now I quote from the rapporteur's own text without having been convicted. It can't be any clearer. This is completely contrary to the basic Danish legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108170058	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108170106	Thank you. I look forward to the discussions that the Minister has now convened from the platform, and I am also pleased that, unlike the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and apparently also the SF, the Left Government adheres to quite fundamental principles of a rule of law, namely that one must be judged before one is punished. Today, people who have previously been convicted of violence against a spouse cannot, for a ten-year period, have a foreign spouse brought together in Denmark. And I think that is very sensible. Unfortunately, we hear from the shelters about men who repeatedly expose foreign spouses to violence. We hear about men who take advantage of the fact that these women are completely dependent on men in order to be allowed to stay in Denmark, because they risk expulsion if they apply for divorce. All violence is deeply unsympathetic. All partner violence is also deeply unsympathetic. And it certainly does not become less unsympathetic that there are men who take advantage of this rather special situation, as it is that the woman is dependent on marriage in order to stay in Denmark. However, the requirement that there should be a verdict of violence should be a matter of course under the rule of law. And, of course, there is such a requirement today. No one today gets a waiting period due to loose claims that have not been tried by a court • Luckily. But that is actually what is being proposed today by the Social Democratic Party. In other words, the proposers want a waiting period to be introduced for persons who, according to an emergency report or a statement from a shelter, have been violent towards their spouse. So the principle of innocence is fundamentally violated until the contrary has been proved, a principle which should then be fundamental in any state governed by the rule of law. The proposal is also contrary to the European Declaration of Human Rights, and that is precisely because of this fundamental principle: we are not punishing people who have not been convicted. We have nothing left in the Enhedslist for violent husbands. On the other hand, we have a great deal to do with legal certainty. Any case in which an emergency room or shelter suspects that there is violence in the marriage should, of course, be investigated by the police. If the investigation indicates that there is some kind of criminal offence, charges and charges shall be brought. I am very, very aware that there are many women in Denmark, and that is the case with foreign women who do not report their husbands when they get beaten up. This is a huge problem, and I think we should do something about that. On Friday, in the Enhedslisten, we have a proposal in the Assembly Hall. It is a resolution which is about securing what is called post-protection for women who have been at the crisis centre because they have been subjected to violence. We have also put forward another proposal to ensure that women who come to the shelter because their men are psychologically tyrannical or violent against them receive their own cash aid. It is a problem that the crisis centres have pointed out: that there are women who have nothing to live on, that is, who have nothing to live on because they are subject to this dependency on their spouse. That is to say, even if they live in a shelter because they have been beaten, it is the man who has to support them. We think we should change that too. All sorts of things could be done to ensure that women who are subjected to violence by their partner, and also men who are better treated by their partner, receive more help, receive more support and become safer, so that more people dare to report their partner. That's where I think we should start. I think that would be a serious approach to this very big problem, namely that there are women who do not report their husbands, even if they get beaten up. I do not think this is a serious approach to the problem; I have to say that. Yes, of course it depends on how you feel about legal certainty. However, I am actually surprised that the Social Democrats and perhaps the SF in particular are proposing that sanctions should be imposed on people who have not been convicted of anything. Then there is also this part of the remarks which states that in each case the National Council for Foreign Affairs must examine whether previous relations with a foreign spouse have ceased due to violence. So it must be said that this is a new bureaucratic layer which is put on an already very comprehensive and time-consuming procedure. For this reason too, we do not support the proposal. I should like to make one final comment. In fact, I have some doubts about what the situation is if a man has been charged with violence against a partner but has not yet been convicted. And if it is not already the case today that a possible family reunification case for a new spouse is suspended until such a case is concluded, then I think it would be sensible to amend the law. I doubt whether the rules are such, but that is an input to the negotiations that the Minister has called for. And, of course, I hope that all parties will vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal on Friday to ensure protection for women living in shelters because they have been beaten by their men. I think that would help and actually make a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108170648	Speaking time is 5 minutes for the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108170656	I also do not know what the state of law is about the last one mentioned by Enhedslisten's rapporteur, but I know that both the Enhedslisten, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Social Democratic Party and all other parties in this Parliament are extremely concerned about legal certainty. I know. But I also know that Kirsten Ketscher, a law professor at the University of Copenhagen, is, and she says on April 30, 2016, that this can be done. That's her assessment. She doesn't have to be right. She can be wrong. It only raises doubts in me, and that is why this resolution has been tabled. If we vote in favour of this resolution, there will be no new legal status tomorrow. The motion for a resolution does not even say that we are requiring the government to table a legislative proposal. What we need to discuss now is whether we want to oblige the government to draw up solutions, to make a legal assessment of them and to call the parties of the Folketing for a discussion. And I think it is a pity that I can hear that the Enhedslisten will not even help clarify the legal basis for this debate. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108170757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108170759	There are two things. First of all, I would like to say to Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, that the motion for a resolution does not impose a study, a discussion of anything. It is said that we would like to discuss how to punish men who have not been convicted. There is no provision for a debate on how we can get more women to report men beating them up. No, we are putting forward a discussion on how we can legally ensure that men who have not been convicted are punished anyway, and that brings me to the next part of my answer. I fully agree that Kirsten Ketscher says that it may not be contrary to the European Declaration of Human Rights to implement this proposal. The Justice Department's lawyers think so, but she says otherwise. But for me, this is not just a question of whether it is contrary to the European Declaration of Human Rights or not. For me, in fact, it is about my view and the Enhedslisten believes that it should be a fundamental principle of a rule of law that one is not punished unless one is convicted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108170911	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108170911-2	Thank you for your answer. I am particularly pleased with the latter, which is, after all, a political debate and not a legal one which I think the other rapporteurs have embarked on. I would just like to say that I do not consider it a punishment. Punishment and how we punish people are described in our penal code. Nor do we punish people in cases where the Foreign Affairs Council considers this to be a pro-marriage. We just tell them that they can marry, they can also live together, they just can't live together in Denmark, because we don't want to grant a residence permit because we consider it to be a pro form marriage. They're not in front of a judge. It's just an assessment that's being made in the Foreign Affairs Agency. I find it strange that we would like to look at cousin marriages and pro-form marriages and say: they can feel the consequence, not the penalty, but they may be subjected to the absence of a legal requirement for family reunification, but the men who have been assessed by the authorities in the past because assessments are already being made if the woman is granted a residence permit; it is because the authorities have assessed that it is possible to prove that she has been subjected to violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171020	First of all, if there are people walking around who think it is verifiable that a woman has been subjected to violence, then I hope that they report the violence so that we can ensure that the man in question is accused and convicted. Second, yes, sir. Mattias Tesfaye, it is certainly political, if you think it should be a principle of the rule of law, of democracy, that you do not punish citizens unless they are convicted. Surely it is not just something about whether it meets a convention. That's megapolitics. I also thought it was a fundamental principle of social democracy that, of course, we want the legal situation not to be punished unless people are convicted. So says Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, it's not a punishment. Well, it's to limit a person's ability to say: you don't have the opportunity for a family reunion for the next 10 years. I think you could call that a punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171121	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171133	Thank you. And so it was that the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslist agree completely on a question, and that is always good. There is a very good intention in this motion for a resolution, namely to prevent people from serially violating their marriage mates with violence. It is absolutely impossible to disagree with that intention. However, as the previous rapporteurs have also said, there are quite fundamental legal principles that are being laid down in the drafting of this motion for a resolution, namely the fundamental principle that one is innocent until one is convicted in a court of law. Cases are being investigated by the police, and guilty persons are being tried by a court of law. This must and must be the case in a society of law which takes fundamental legal principles seriously. On this basis, therefore, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171235	No one has asked for brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171254	Thank you. No matter how sympathetic this resolution may sound, I agree with the previous rapporteurs, both from the Liberal Alliance and from the Enhedslisten, that this proposal compromises legal certainty in Denmark. There is no doubt that we all want to put an end to violence in families, but what we are doing here is that we have a resolution in which we want to ensure that people who have not been convicted of violence lose the opportunity to have a spouse from abroad. In the alternative, we cannot accept that. Then there is one thing that has not actually been taken up here from the platform, and that is actually the question of prevention. So what we would also like to work for is that when there are these suspicions of men who commit violence against their spouse, we must take preventive action so that this does not happen again. Similarly, it is with what Enhedslisten mentioned that if we have been informed that a spouse has committed violence, it must be reported: I hope it will be. So instead of taking action on this motion for a resolution, which will ensure that a person in this country can not bring up a new spouse without a verdict on violence, I would much rather take action on prevention and, moreover, ensure that things are reported. I think I will stop here and say that, with these comments, in the alternative, we cannot support the proposal, no matter how sympathetic the idea is as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171451	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171454	Thank you very much. I am particularly pleased to hear that the alternative, like all other parties, recognises that this is a problem which seeks a solution. Then I understand that the alternative does not believe that the solution put forward in this resolution is the right one. I just want to correct one thing. The rapporteur says that the resolution implements something. In other words, it is absolutely essential that we do not implement anything by adopting this motion for a resolution. What we are doing is that we will require the government to draw up a solution that can be discussed. I would like to know whether the Alternative can support perhaps also as part of a new political culture that Parliament sometimes takes initiatives and asks the government to solve a problem that we can see. However, we do not have the ability to formulate precisely how it is to be resolved. And is it not a pity that we are always waiting for the government to come up with solutions instead of imposing something on them every once in a while and saying: 'Here is a problem, dear government, can you not try to go into a box of thinking and find out how it can be resolved within the framework of the constitution, conventions and general legal certainty?'
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171557	Yes, but the problem is that this motion for a resolution suggests that, even if you have not received a sentence, even if you have not been convicted of having committed violence, you will be deprived of some opportunity. This is a fundamental principle for me in Denmark. We live in a state governed by the rule of law, and I simply do not want to compromise on that. The alternative will not compromise on that. As the motion for a resolution has been tabled here, the government will be required to investigate how we can ensure that a person who has not been convicted of violence is deprived of these rights. We cannot agree to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171635	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171642	Every day, governments make thousands of assessments in this society that have consequences for the citizens who live here. When you show up down at the job center, there's a person who makes assessments that affect what opportunities you have as a citizen of this community, whether you're convicted or not. There are authorities that assess whether you have the right to adopt a child, whether you have the right to have a spouse reunited in the country. Such assessments are carried out all the time. So I would also like to ask the Alternative's rapporteur: does the Alternative's rapporteur think that there is any difference between the Foreigners' Authority's view that a marriage is a pro-marriage, and thus says that no residence permit and family reunification can be obtained, and that, on the basis of, for example, a review of police reports on domestic violence and on the basis of medical records from hospitals and on the basis of interviews with psychologists at crisis centres, the Foreigners' Board makes the assessment that no residence permit can be granted? Where is the difference between pro form marriage and suspicion of violence in a previous marriage?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171751	For me, there's a huge difference. This resolution says that there is a suspicion of something, but you do not have a verdict for it. Now I'm not referring to sir. Mattias Tesfaye when I say you, I mean man. I mean, you don't have a verdict on it, and that's what matters to me in this situation, namely that it's about being suspected of committing violence, but you don't have a verdict on it, and that's what matters to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171826	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is the case that using the word you in the sense of one is permitted by our Rules of Procedure. The next rapporteur must be Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. There's something else in my script. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108171848	Manuscripts can be followed or not followed. This proposal seems to address a problem that is important. These are people who take up foreign spouses, beat them up and have the opportunity to repeat it. This is a problem which many women's crisis centres have pointed out is there. The violence against women who come from abroad and who become completely dependent on their spouse in order to stay here in Denmark is actually a major problem. So, instead of finding hair in the soup, I think we should say that social democracy actually addresses an important problem here. And then I think we should take the discussion from there. It is true that different arguments can be put forward about legal certainty by the way in which it might be implemented here, but the whole point of this proposal is precisely that this is something we should look at afterwards. I can say that we will not agree to anything that goes against the European Convention on Human Rights or legal certainty in general or the Constitution. I have also understood that this is the case with the Social Democratic Party. Neither will they. So I do not think we should run open doors through the discussion that I think there has been a certain tendency in the debate so far. Instead, let's take it as it is. It is a proposal that addresses a problem that everyone recognizes is there. The party is trying to formulate a solution to this. It is not claimed that this is a patent solution or that the proposals made by Enhedslisten in parallel are irrelevant. They're not at all. That is part of a solution to a problem that is there. I really find it quite appealing that we in the Danish Parliament are discussing this kind of proposal and that the government is actually accepting it. So there is no reason for the proposal to be put to the vote, because I understand that our minister is going to have a discussion on these matters on the basis of this first reading, and then I think we should take it from there instead of being as offended as many have been here at this first reading. Let's take it from there and say that we have a common desire to solve this problem. There has been a proposal from the Social Democratic Party. We think it should be discussed. Whether that is what we are going to end up with, we have not taken a final position on, because neither is the proposal here, because there may be some problems in what we have to deal with. However, in view of the scale and seriousness of the problem, I think we should have an open debate on this in the Folketing among the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172212	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Marcus Knuth from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172218	Thank you very much. I must say with all due respect that I am surprised to hear the rapporteur say more or less that it is a hair in the soup to break with Danish legal certainty, because that is really what this is all about. Then I am pleased that the rapporteur's party has not taken a final position. But it is written in black and white here, that is, that a resident spouse who has not been convicted cannot be more clearly informed of family reunification. Can the rapporteur not clarify his position a little more as to whether it is really right for a person who has not been convicted in a court of law to be sanctioned for something as extensive as violence?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172305	Well, I actually think you talk past each other here. I think in and out that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye had a very good grasp of it in a brief comment earlier. For is it a punishment in the real sense of the word, that is, that you cannot have a marriage union? I don't think you can say it is. That is why I do not think that the two things are connected. It is clear that no one can be judged without there being a court of law. But the question is whether we are talking here about punishment. There may be other ways to deal with this. And we have said that we do not agree to a solution that is contrary to fundamental legal principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172352	Sir. Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172353	Thank you. I particularly welcomed the last words made by the rapporteur here, as well as those made by the rapporteur earlier, namely that the rapporteur's party cannot agree to anything contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. There is, of course, a note in circulation which I know the rapporteur's group chairman has seen, from the Ministry of Justice, where a great deal of serious questions are raised as to whether this is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. Has the rapporteur read it and is the rapporteur aware of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172428	No, he's not. But I expect you to be able to discuss that afterwards. That is precisely what this proposal is all about: we shall then have a discussion on it. There is a proposal from the Social Democratic Party that we need to look at, and we are also willing to look into it. Then we'll take it from there. And we say that we cannot be involved in anything that goes against the European Convention on Human Rights. But if you find alternative options that do not, let us discuss them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172504	The next brief remark is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172508	Well, it's a little weird that sir. Holger K. Nielsen has not received the assessment from the Ministry of Justice, which has been sent to SF's group chairman, about how this proposal is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. But what I would like to ask is: if this proposal we are debating today, which is aimed at examining how to ensure that the ten-year waiting period is also applied to cases of men who have not been convicted of violence, but who have said that they have been beaten, what will the SF vote? Because it was unclear to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172554	So it is quite clear from this proposal that the conclusion drawn by Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen cannot be drawn. No, it cannot be drawn, because it is a question of how this should be put into practice. That then means that hopefully that discussion can be completed before a possible second reading, which I hope will not happen. But if it does, there is also in this proposal that we will have to discuss it afterwards and that there will be a discussion where the parties voting in favour will have to ensure that it does not run counter to legal certainty and will not have the incalculable consequences mentioned here by Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. I therefore think that the question of whether to vote 'yes' or 'no' to this motion for a resolution is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172649	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, on behalf of the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172651	I'm sorry, but now it's very unclear for me what SF actually means. Says sir. Holger K. Nielsen now from the platform that SF does not 10 years when they cannot get a family reunion?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172717-2	We say we want to look into it. That's what this proposal is all about. We would like to see whether this can be done without conflicting with the rule of law. That is what is in the proposal. There is nothing substantial in this proposal. It is a process which is initiated after the possible vote at second reading. As I said, I hope that this process can be completed between the first and second readings so that we do not have a vote and that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen is also involved in a constructive solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172754	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left, has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172757	Thank you. Sometimes there are people who claim that the debate in this Chamber is just like that and doesn't matter, but it does. I don't know if you can hear somebody getting cold feet. That's where I'd probably have to get up on the platform and take Mr. Simpson. Holger K. Nielsen's shoes off just like to feel after, but I am actually quite sure that what we are witnessing right now is a Socialist People's Party that has got cold feet with good reason. Because this proposal doesn't work. It is a real problem, no doubt about it, but the solution is no good. Now, listen to what is said: Victims without a verdict must be denied family reunification. There are prospects in that. Victims without a verdict shall be denied entry to the Folketing. Victims without a conviction must be denied driving licences. Victims without a conviction must be denied admission to the university. Well, the possibilities are legio. Can we not agree that this has raised an important and important debate, but that the solution does not really work?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172901	Still gone, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, instead of being as negative as he is here, should take it positively and say that here is a problem that is real. A solution is then outlined in this motion for a resolution, which we shall be discussing afterwards, and in that others have not made proposals, I think it is really enough for the Social Democrats to propose it here. And we would like to support the fact that it is then taken up afterwards. As I said, I hope that this can be done between the first and second readings, and a great deal has been achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172941	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108172942	Yeah, but listen to me. There is talk of rapists without a verdict. Then you're not an assailant. Well, you're not. An emergency department report might be able to clarify that a person has been beaten, but of course not by whom. This is an important problem and let us sit down and discuss what we can do more. But to sanction some because of violence for which they have not been convicted is no good. It is not worthy of the rule of law. Can't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108173019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108173020	I have never heard that you can't be an assailant without being convicted of it. That's totally absurd and nonsense. The rapporteur also knows very well that it is. Of course you can. What is being proposed here is to get some, if I may say so, management assessments in mind. It is possible that it is not possible that it will be too bureaucratic, that it is against some basic principles of legal certainty, but then let us look at it. I think that instead of running it up like the quite huge constitutional breach and saying that it is in principle very wrong, we should look at it as an attempt to solve a problem that we all recognise is there. Of course, you can be an assailant without being convicted of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108173118	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108173128	If the resolution were to be put to the vote, we would vote against it. Having said that, we have very, very much sympathy for the intentions of the proposal. I have a lot of knowledge of the problem myself. I myself have interpreted for women who have been subjected to violence and who were in women's centres, and I also know of examples of some who take advantage of the situation and bring together women who they abuse, beat and commit violence against. This is a very relevant issue which we agree should be addressed. However, we cannot support the proposal for the reasons mentioned by several rapporteurs and also by the Minister. There are some legal challenges. There is the question of legal certainty. You don't punish people who haven't been convicted. Having said that, I would like the Ministry to address the lawyer to whom the proposers have referred several times, Kirsten Ketscher, and her assessment. I would really like to hear the legal position on her assessment, because if there had not been the legal challenges and it had not been contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, we would have supported the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108173304	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr von der Vring. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108173321	A year ago I met with a good acquaintance from Rødovre, who is married to a Ukrainian woman, and through her he has contact with some Eastern European women's internal networks in Denmark. Many of them are in this country because they have met a nice Danish guy and have had children, and the vast majority are doing well, and that is excellent. The same can be said of many Asian women's stays in Denmark, and that is only good. Unfortunately, however, there are also cases where women are subjected to violence and rape by their spouse. They are alone in a foreign country, and they often put up with too much before they approach the authorities and apply for divorce. For several years the Danish Parliament has been discussing what the rights of these divorced women should be, and that is now quite in place. If the authorities consider that it can be demonstrated that a woman has been subjected to violence, then the woman can retain her residence permit in Denmark. The assessment is based, for example, on medical records, contact with the police or statements from shelters, and such assessments are carried out all the time. Now my good acquaintances can tell me that some of these former victims of violence, but now divorced women, have experienced that their ex-husband has brought a new woman to Denmark, often from the same country. And it provoked me for several reasons. Firstly, because violence is, of course, unacceptable, as several people have said, but also because I see it as our responsibility as Parliament that in a rich country we ensure that none of our fellow citizens exploits the fact that some women from poorer countries will do much and accept even more to obtain a residence permit in Denmark and perhaps send money home to the family. Of course, I wish that global inequality was not so great, but it is, and we have to deal with that. That's why I contacted the National Association of Women's Crisis Centres in Denmark to see if they saw this as a problem or if it was just a feather that had turned into five chickens. They conducted a survey and got a lot of answers back and could indicate that no separate registration of these cases is being carried out. But they confirmed that some violent men have new foreign spouses here, and then they wrote to me: the crisis centres see it as a major problem that it is possible to expose women to violence in order to be able to bring a new woman here who is exposed to the same thing. Several crisis centres say that they feel powerless when they encounter this problem. That is why, according to the crisis centres, there is a great need for legislation to take this into account. In Sunday's edition of BT, a psychologist from the Danish Women's Society Crisis Center at Frederiksberg said: "The problem is so common that we teach new volunteers that these men exist. The Chairman of the National Association of Women's Crisis Centres points out that this is a large dark figure. She says: "It is quite absurd that a violent man can continue to bring a new woman to the country when there is already another woman he has hurt. ▪ I think we agree that this should be taken seriously, that the current state of law seems to mean that there are several men who bring their spouses here one by one and wear them out. When the Social Democratic Party in April 2016 told the media that we wanted a change of law so that the violent men could not automatically get a new spouse to do so, we met a positive interest from the Left. In the same context, a law professor stated that there was nothing legal to prevent such a change of law. We therefore contacted the rapporteur of the Left and have since been in dialogue on whether or not a legislative proposal would be put forward. We would prefer it to be the government that brings forward such legislative proposals because it allows them to be consulted, and that is something more thoroughly worked out than what we can sit and suck up to in our party offices. However, according to the rapporteur, there were some legal doubts as to whether this is possible within the framework of the constitution and conventions, and this is an honest matter. None of us want to break the Constitution or the Conventions or ordinary legal certainty. Here we are now in a situation which I consider to be legally unresolved. But also in a situation where the unsympathetic husbands can continue to bring women up here and expose them to humiliation and violence. Social democracy has respect for the legal concerns of the rapporteur of the Left. We have therefore deliberately not tabled a legislative proposal in this Chamber, nor do we in this motion for a resolution oblige the government to table a legislative proposal. That's absolutely central. All we want is to clarify whether it is possible to restrict these men's access to a new spouse and family reunification without there being a conviction. In this respect, we have given an example of a solution. It's not safe at all, it has to be it. Probably not. That is why the proposal also states that the government is required to draw up a solution that we can then meet about and discuss. I consider that to be fairly outramatic. If the government is not comfortable with legal certainty in the model they have drawn up, they can simply not table the bill afterwards. Today's motion for a resolution imposes nothing on them, and if the parties are not comfortable with the model presented, then they can simply not support it. Today's motion for a resolution does not bind any of us. All we want is for the government's lawyers to clarify whether the law professor was right in his assessment, and with all due respect for the rapporteur of the Left and some e-mails that I can understand flying back and forth between the rapporteur of the Left and the chairman of the group of the SF, but as we have not seen, I would like it to be the government that makes such a clarification and that at the top of the paper there is a letterhead from the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that we can all agree on the same assessment and have a proper, qualified discussion. Moreover, I would urge that the lines I can understand the rapporteur from the Left should be made available to some other rapporteurs for all of us. That is precisely what this resolution is about. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to clarify and identify which parties recognise the problem and I understand that we are all doing so and wishing to discuss a solution within the framework of the constitution and conventions. I understand that at least SF and the Danish People's Party want, and of course we are grateful for that. I hope, of course, for a very good debate, and I must stress that I am particularly pleased that the Minister has already indicated in her opening speech that she intended to call Parliament's parties to a discussion on how we deal with this challenge. That is what matters to us, not the solution itself. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108173927	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108173931	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I received an e-mail today, which I imagine the rapporteur has also received himself, from a Danish prison guard. That e-mail very much outlined the problem as I see it. He has been married, as I remember, to a Filipino woman; they have been divorced; subsequently she has accused him of violence; he says that it has not happened, and he has not been convicted of it for the same reason. But this charge then gives the woman certain advantages over housing and that she can be in Denmark etc. So this man isn't convicted of anything. Does the rapporteur think that this is fair because, according to the rapporteur's proposal here, this man should suddenly be regarded as convicted of violence without a court of law?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174023	It is wrong for the rapporteur of the Left to present it in such a way that our motion for a resolution will mean that the person who has written an e-mail to both of us will automatically be cut off from the possibility of a new family of spouses. The model we outline in our motion for a resolution, which we would like to have a legal assessment of, would mean that if the person who has written to both of us applied for a new family reunification, then a bell would ring in the Foreign Affairs Agency, which would say: Hey, he should not have that just per. automatic. There we have to make an individual assessment of whether there is any evidence of the accusation being made against him by the Filipino woman in this case. This assessment we imagine in our sketch for a solution could be made by the Foreigners' Board and not necessarily by conviction • yes, that is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174108	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174109	May I then just, for the sake of good order, be absolutely sure that I have understood what the rapporteur is saying, ask: if the rapporteur sat with the government or should do so in the near future, would this proposal be implemented literally as it stands here?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174129	I can say for sure that we are not clear about that. After all, this is a motion for a resolution drawn up in our office which says two things: paragraph 1, we would like to ask the government to draw up a solution, and paragraph 2 we would like to ask the government to convene the parties of the Folketing to discuss that solution. We would not implement this as legislation, but we would do what is stated in this motion for a resolution, namely paragraph 1, have a solution drawn up which we will be able to vouch for, and paragraph 2, discuss with the parties of the Folketing. And it is clear that if we were to find out in that study that this was contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights or the Danish Constitution, we would not put it forward as a legislative proposal. It's obvious. We are just not convinced of this yet; on the contrary, we can see that there is a law professor who says otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174216	Thank you. Next, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174220	I am a little shaken by the fact that the Social Democrats themselves cannot hear what they are trying to do. In other words, the man we heard my party colleague talking about must sit before someone or a case officer on the Foreigners' Board, and then it is the case worker in the Foreigners' Board who has to find out whether he is an assailant or not an assailant. This is something that has happened several years ago, where all the evidence is long gone and where the only thing you might have to rely on is an emergency department report, or what do I know? Should you be able to summon witnesses? Should you be able to call the ex-wife? So, what does the Social Democratic Party think? What the Social Democrats have thrown themselves into is a huge slippery slope which is not worthy of the rule of law. Frankly, I did not think we were going to see a government-worthy party in this way disregarding all the security guarantees of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174318-2	I do not see this as a question from Mr Jan E. Jørgensen, but I would like to say that our proposal is the motion for a resolution we have tabled, which we are now discussing and which we are going to vote on. It is not a request for the government to draw up a concrete proposal and discuss it with the parties of the Folketing. I think it's strange that the government doesn't just take it in and say, "You know what, we're gonna fucking apologize, we're gonna get this legal assessment done, and we're gonna get it presented to the parties of the Folketing." And if the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing considers that this can only be done if you break the Constitution or the European Convention on Human Rights, then it is straight out of the road: Social democracy will never be able to support it. I just haven't seen that assessment yet, and I'm wondering, among other things. , 1) that there is a law professor who says so, and 2) that the Foreigners' Authority already makes such assessments. That is what makes me insecure, and that is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution. It is for clarity to be established, and I regret that the Left cannot support that clarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174420	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174422	I cannot understand why the Social Democrat rapporteur cannot hear that there is a huge difference between making an assessment in favour of anyone or the disadvantage of anyone. So, an assessment in favour of a woman who can be allowed to stay in Denmark is one thing. An assessment to the disadvantage of another who is cut off from family reunification is something completely different. Can we not hear for ourselves that there is a completely fundamental difference in principle? You don't have to be a lawyer for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174451	Now I know that Left Jan E. Jørgensen is a lawyer. I'm a bricklayer's turn, and now I'll tell you what a bricklayer's turn can hear: There's a difference between favor and disadvantage. But then, at the same time, when I say to the rapporteur, to Mr Seligman: Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left, that the Foreign Affairs Agency already makes assessments of e.g. Marriage, it's a disadvantage. Thus we have two similar, I think, examples of the Foreigners' Authority assessing to the detriment of some. And that's what puzzles me.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174526	Thank you to the rapporteur. And it was good that the rapporteur himself found out that we are not using direct indictments in the Assembly. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174549	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174631	Thank you. Thank you to the two ministers for putting forward this question and, of course, also to all the colleagues who have appeared. The question is: what can the Minister say about the human and social consequences of legislation on the ceiling of cash benefits, 225-hour rule and integration benefit? I do not think it is so difficult to justify why we have asked for this debate. The legislation we are talking about is one of the most intrusive in the lives of the unemployed and sick people we have seen for many years. We can already see clear signs that the only thing that will come out of it is the massive impoverishment of thousands of people. This will have major consequences for those concerned, not least for the many families of children hit hard by this legislation. It will also have major consequences for the many employees who have to see the social safety net become even more exhausted and this will have major consequences for society as a whole. This will significantly increase social problems in the years to come. A society of poverty is a poor society, no matter how large the growth may be in gross national income. Yes, I would say that the greater the overall prosperity is in a society that at the same time experiences increased inequality and poverty, the poorer is the society that is poor at the most important: humanity. I look forward to the replies of the ministers and the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174757	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. The first minister on the platform is the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108174809	Thank you. I will answer that part of the question which concerns the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing will then explain the consequences of the integration service. It is the Government's ambition that more people should be in employment and support themselves and that fewer people should receive public support. It is a bottom-up task if we are to afford the welfare in Denmark that we all want. It is therefore also gratifying that employment has been increasing and that unemployment has been decreasing under this government. Many jobs have gone to foreigners. 44 per cent the increase in employees' employment from the turn of the year until August this year has been covered by foreign labour. Unfortunately, we note that the rise in employment has not prevented the number of people in the cash benefits system from going the wrong way. The number of people in the cash benefits system has increased from approx. 129,000 full-time persons to 158,500 full-time persons from the second quarter of 2011 to the second quarter of 2016. This is an increase of approx. 23% Especially among non-western immigrants and descendants, things have gone the wrong way. The number of non-western immigrants in the cash assistance system has increased by approx. 24,100 full-time persons from the second quarter of 2011 to the second quarter of 2016, corresponding to an increase of 80%. At the same time, the number of married couples on cash benefits has increased 84 per cent. in the period from December 2011 until September 2016, from just over 4,600 to 8,400 married couples. And approx. 87 per cent. In September the couples were not Western immigrants and descendants. It goes without saying that this is an unsustainable development, and it is one of these. Therefore, the government, together with the parties to the agreement, has introduced a cash aid ceiling and a 225-hour rule. The ceiling on cash benefits must ensure that there is a better balance between, on the one hand, the fact that it is always worthwhile to work and, on the other hand, the fact that cash benefits must constitute a reasonable temporary substitute. Before the ceiling on cash benefits, it was the case that a couple with two children, one working full time and the other 30 hours a week at HK's minimum wage, had only a gain of approx. A thousand kroner. month or approx. 3 kroner. per Time and it is well to mark before transportation costs, union quota, cashier etc. After the cash benefits ceiling, the prize will be approx. 2,200 kr. or approx. 8 kroner. per hour. It is not a big difference, but it is a more reasonable balance. There must always be a noticeable economic difference between taking a job at the fixed minimum wage and being on cash benefits. And, of course, it must also be the case that cash benefits constitute a reasonable temporary substitute. With the ceiling of cash benefits, a typical single parent with three children will receive DKK 285,000. in total public benefits and pre-tax subsidies and have approx. 13,000 kroner. available every month after tax and rent are paid. A married couple with three children will receive nearly $2,000 (U.S.). in total benefits and grants and have a available amount of approx. 15,500 kroner. a month after tax and rent have been paid. I think that is a perfectly reasonable level. At the same time, with just a few hours of employment per week, you can get completely free from the ceiling on cash benefits. In the context of the bill, it was estimated that the ceiling on cash benefits would affect approximately 28,000 full-time persons in 2016 and 24,000 full-time persons structurally. In November of this year, some 32,650 people have had a temporary reduction in their housing aid or special aid as a result of the ceiling on cash benefits. On the basis of the provisional November figures, the average reduction was estimated at approx. 1,300 kr. a month. The original estimate was approx. 1,450 kr. per month. The 225-hour rule requires that persons covered by the rule should receive 225 hours of employment within one year. It is only right that those who can work should also be actually available for the labour market. The 225 hours of employment can be achieved by 5-6 hours of work per week or 11⁄2 months of full-time employment. This means that short-term small jobs are also an option. If the ability to work is considered to be so limited that the person cannot obtain employment in the ordinary labour market, the person shall be exempted from the employment requirement. In the context of the bill, it was estimated that approx. 9,000 full-time persons would be affected by the 225-hour rule in 2016 and approx. 8,000 full-time persons structurally. Pr. October 24th this year was approx. 65,300 persons are excluded from the 225-hour rule corresponding to approx. 68 per cent. by the target group. Among the excluded were 2%. In addition, there is an increase in the number of jobs or training facilities, while 98 per cent of jobs or training facilities are available. was activity-ready. At the same time, we can see that the municipalities exempt four out of five active cash aid recipients from the 225-hour requirement. It is to be expected that the majority of operators will not currently be able to work for 225 hours, thus meeting the requirement of availability, and that they will therefore be exempted. Pr. October 10th there are approx. 27,700 alerted beneficiaries with a possible cancellation per year. October 1st. Some of these will achieve employment and thus meet the employment requirement; others will be exempted or, for example, will be excluded. pass to another service. The 27,700 does not therefore represent the number of people actually affected. It is important, and I have also pointed this out several times to mayors and municipalities, that the municipalities have a number of important tasks in helping citizens affected by the 225-hour rule and the cash aid ceiling so that they get to work. In cases where a citizen has received cash benefits for a prolonged period due to health problems, it is very important for the municipality to consider whether the ability to work has been permanently reduced to such an extent that there is a basis for starting the preparation of a rehabilitation plan for submission to the rehabilitation team prior to a decision on searching for resources, flexible jobs or early retirement. I am very concerned that the municipalities are making an assessment of whether a citizen belongs to the cash benefits system. Cash benefits are and must be a temporary benefit. The municipalities must therefore, of course, help the citizen to get to work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108175712	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. I now give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108175725	First of all, let me stress that we can be familiar with our efforts. We in Denmark have very high social benefits and a welfare system where new arrivals have access to, for example. the integration programme, Danish education, schooling for children, education and job opportunities for adults and, of course, also medical care if you become ill. So we can be well aware of our efforts, even if we have reduced benefits and require efforts to get to work. On 1 September 2015, we introduced the integration service for new arrivals, and on 1 July 2016, we extended the scheme to include everyone who has not been in Denmark for 7 years out of the last 8 years. I am fully aware that the introduction of the integration service makes a difference to those who are included in it, but that is also the intention. It should not be attractive to come to Denmark to receive high social benefits. Then work must pay better. It must be felt in the daily economy if you make an effort if you get up from the couch and take a job. It cannot be reasonable for there to be no significant economic difference between whether you go to work every day and make a day-to-day relationship or whether you are outside the labour market and receive social benefits. Therefore, it makes sense to introduce a lower benefit, as the level of benefit itself provides a sensible incentive to enter employment. In addition, it is quite fair in my optics that new arrivals of foreigners and Danes returning from the first day in Denmark do not have access to the same services as citizens who have been here for a lifetime and who have also contributed to society. Finally, we are not supposed to be on the benefits of integration. No, the intention is to enter the labour market and get an income and become self-supporting and become part of Denmark. So to make it quite clear: the integration benefit provides an incentive to get into employment and be integrated into Danish society. Of course, one should never be overconfident, and we are also far from achieving it, but the latest figures in the area of asylum indicate that, with the government's efforts, we have managed at least the flow of refugees that we saw in autumn 2015. Therefore, it is also time to look at how we integrate those who are now staying in Denmark for a shorter or longer period. It is my clear view that everyone should contribute to society, including new arrivals. It is essential to send a clear signal to everyone that self-reliance through employment is therefore the norm in Denmark. But it is clear that one thing is the economic incentive, another is the practical challenge which, when you are newcomer, is to enter the labour market. I fully acknowledge that. However, the introduction of the benefits of integration is not alone. A number of measures have been taken to make it easier for newcomers to get a foot in the labour market. Up to the summer break, we passed a bill which strengthens the labour market focus in the municipalities' integration efforts on crucial points. We did so on the basis of good cooperation with the municipalities as well as with the social partners. The changes mean that we will turn the approach to integration and the way we meet foreigners who come to this country and who want to be part of the Danish community. We are sending out a clear signal that we must contribute, that we must make an active effort and that it is primarily about entering the labour market. We now meet the newcomer with a clear expectation that he or she will be ready for work and therefore have to enter the first company-oriented offer as soon as possible and preferably within 2 weeks and no later than 1 month after arrival in the municipality where he or she is going to live. Because it is precisely in the workplace that you get to know Danish and the culture here in Denmark that you learn the form of association and train the Danish language and create a basis for supporting yourself and for having a good life as an active citizen. Integrating into the labour market is crucial for the success of a life in Denmark and its integration, but it is also crucial for our economy. It is essential that the newcomers participate in the labour market and contribute to the community. The integration benefit itself provides an incentive to enter employment, but it can be further strengthened. Today, when you have been in the country for seven years, you can switch to cash benefits without having been in employment. In principle, I do not think we should be able to expect higher benefits in this way, as is the case now. That is why we have proposed to reinstate the previous employment requirements of the VK government, which never came into effect until they were abolished again by the Red Government in 2012. In short, the requirement is that you only move from integration benefit to cash benefits when you meet the requirement to stay for at least 7 out of 8 years, but you also have to have been in work to an extent equivalent to at least 21⁄2 years of unaided full-time employment in the last 8 years. It cannot be right that you can live so many years in Denmark without entering the labour market, if you are healthy and healthy by the way. And yes, the introduction of the employment requirement must be clearly seen as a boost to the labour market. I am of the clear conviction that with the introduction of the integration benefit, the 225-hour rule, the ceiling on cash benefits and now also the employment requirement, we are on the right path to creating a system that strongly motivates the individual to enter the labour market, be integrated and contribute to Danish society, which is also the intention when you stay here in Denmark. I think it is absolutely crucial that we make demands on those who come to Denmark that they should contribute to the labour market, but that they should of course also take Denmark to heart when they want to live here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108180448	Thank you, Minister. Then the debate is open. We must indeed put the rapporteur for the questioners back on the floor. Welcome to sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108180507	Thank you. The criticisms are well known. The new poverty benefits will not lead to more people getting into work. They merely lead to increased poverty, to postponements of housing, to divided families. The criticism comes not only from the parties in the opposition, but from a large number of trade unions, voluntary aid organisations, disability organisations. Large organizations such as the National Association of Municipalities and the National Association of Housing Companies have warned directly against implementing this legislation. It's all blown off on the government and its support parties. They're just driving around in the same groove. It has to pay to work. It is fair to the low-paid people who go to work every day to reduce housing subsidies. The cash benefits recipients must learn to give priority to their budgets and, moreover, they can simply turn to the job centre and find themselves a cheaper accommodation. A large number of questions have been put to the Ministers. The answers tell us something about the scale and seriousness of this case. A total of approx. 50,000. Approx. 20,000 of them are cash benefits recipients who are drastically reduced in benefits. Approx. 30,000 people are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, almost half of whom are single parents. In the affected families there are approx. 43,000 children under the age of 18. Sixty-nine percent. of the affected are women. 70% According to the municipalities, those affected by the ceiling are unable to work. The expected average reduction in availability is approx. 18,000 kroner. a year, but it covers very large differences and is based on an average rental. For example, a single parent with three children loses. just over 44,000 kroner. a year, and in the metropolitan area, the loss is even greater. We do not yet know exactly how many are affected by the 225-hour rule. The estimate is 7,000-9,000, including 600 married couples, who are at risk of losing the whole of one party's cash assistance, i.e. Approx. 162,000 kr. a year. We are already seeing the first signs of how hard it is for the families concerned. The 14 largest housing companies say that the number of unpaid rent reminders has increased by 13%. in October. The first collection cases have already been initiated. It's just the tip of the iceberg, says the housing companies. Pressure for debt advice is growing. The aid organisations say that it is very limited what they can help with, because the applicants' budgets have already been completely shaved down. The National Association of Housing Companies has always considered that approx. 14,000 families are in danger of getting out of their present home. Like KL, housing companies cannot find the cheap housing that these families have to move into. Neither can the ministers. I guess we'd have heard it a while ago. They can't tell us where they are either. 40,000 small job vacancies that the many cash benefits recipients are going to get are. Here, too, we are faced with loud silence. After all, it puts all the talk of being able to pay off working in relief. The jobs aren't there, and 70 percent. of those who are affected are not able to take these jobs even if they should be available. The government and the support parties do not even believe that more people are going to work. According to the bill, approx. 50,000 hit, but you only expect 1,100 to work. It just shows that that's not what it's all about. It's about saving so that we can afford some more tax cuts. It is about cutting the gaps in the social safety net even more in the expectation that wages will come down when insecurity spreads among employees. Then the Minister talks about respect for the low-paid who work hard every day without making much of it. But what kind of respect is it that makes it even more expensive for the low-paid to lose your job because you get sick or because the job disappears? Can't we stop all this talk about how it doesn't pay to work? If a single cash benefit recipient gets a full-time job in Netto on HK's agreement, the prize is approx. 11,000 kroner. Before taxes. For a breadwinner it is approx. 7,000 kroner. Before taxes. So stop it now. Perhaps the worst thing is the human vision behind it. In the much talk of financial incentives, there is a perception that the recipients of cash benefits are probably a little lazy. I guess the sick aren't really sick either. As the Minister has just said, they can just get up from the couch and get their act together, and then they get to work. I have contact with many of these people. They often say to me: One thing is that they tear the carpet away from under me financially, but the worst is the suspicion and the suspicion that I am being met with. The legislation we are talking about today is the worst expression of it so far. We can only note that the government and its support parties are implementing with open eyes legislation that will impoverish thousands of people who are bringing children's families and seriously ill people and people with disabilities into an even more hopeless situation. I am therefore happy to submit the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government's cash aid ceiling, 225-hour rule and integration benefit will increase poverty in Denmark and increase insecurity for ordinary employees. The Danish Parliament expresses concern about the consequences of the legislation, particularly in relation to families with children in Denmark. It is noted that the rules create social inequality and result in children growing up in poverty in Denmark. The Folketing calls for the government to conduct policies that ensure a socially fair safety net as well as, to a particular extent, proper conditions for all children throughout Denmark. The parties behind this adoption therefore undertake to abolish poverty benefits. • V (6). • V (6). •
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181102	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181114	Thank you. I would very much like to hear the rapporteur's views on something which is very dear to us in the Danish People's Party, and which we are, of course, very much concerned about. It is clear from the figures in the field of cash benefits that there is a very high over-representation of people of non-Western origin. What does the rapporteur think about this, in other words that there are so many people in the cash aid system who are of non-Western origin? And does the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten think that perhaps the solution is to raise the amount of cash benefits rather than what we others have implemented in relation to the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule? How does Enhedslisten view the whole challenge of people of non-Western origin in the cash assistance system?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181205	I think we can at least agree that this is a major challenge for Danish society. The question is: What are the reasons for this? When you look at these laws that we are talking about now, there is behind them a thought that we have probably been too nice about these immigrants and that is why they are just at home on the couch, as the Minister of Integration said. We have a different view in the Enhedslisten. We believe that it has not been ensured that the Danish labour market was opened up so that these people could also enter the labour market. And there we are just completely convinced that the policy that the Danish People's Party stands for will in no way solve that problem. On the contrary, to an even greater extent than is already the case, it will delineate these people and put them in a situation where it becomes even harder for them to become part of the labour market and thus also the, what can be said, full part of the Danish society that we all want.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181259	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181301	Now Mr. Finn Sørensen is not really talking about the problem. But sir... Finn Sørensen confirms that e.g. Since we introduced the integration benefit, which is somewhat lower than cash aid, have we had such a brake on the influx of asylum seekers and migrants to Denmark? It can be seen in the statistics today that it is a challenge to get this group, which is of non-Western origin in particular, into employment in Denmark. So it is not good that we have created an opportunity here to curb the influx of asylum to Denmark, to limit the influx to Denmark, and thus also in the long term make it somewhat cheaper for the Danish welfare community?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181344	Everyone can see that the number of asylum seekers has fallen, and it cannot be denied that this is the result of the efforts of the government and the Danish People's Party to frighten people from seeking asylum here in Denmark. You can't deny that. I would just like to ask the other way round again: now the rapporteur cannot answer so that it becomes a rhetorical question: what, in the name of heaven, would that help the problem that the rapporteur starts by pointing out, namely that many people with a different ethnic background are excluded from our labour market and, in many respects, are also excluded from our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181422	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181425	Thank you. I understood from the rapporteur that it was the Danish labour market that was a problem in terms of getting people into work. I just have to understand it correctly, because is it not the case that some 100,000 people from Eastern Europe are currently working in Denmark; that there are about 200,000 jobs of shorter duration, that is, less than 15 hours currently occupied; that there is thus a job to be obtained; and that today we may have one of the world's most mobile labour markets? So it is not true that there is no room to go out and find a job. They're actually there. Today they are obsessed with people from Eastern Europe. I'd like more people on cash benefits to take those jobs. Isn't that part of the solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181516	In other words, the rapporteur himself is now giving the answer: the jobs are occupied. So these 40,000-50,000 cash aid recipients we're talking about here, plus the 170,000 other unemployed people who, according to the labour survey, are ready to take a job now and who are just looking for jobs in vain, aren't all jobs for. That is what the rapporteur does not really want to do. So the rapporteur himself has given the answer: no, there are no jobs available. As far as the Eastern Europeans are concerned, I have been following this area with great attention for many years, and it is my experience that the main reason why so many Eastern European workers come here is, of course, the first to be the European Union's rules on freedom of movement, which prevent us from ensuring that they work here on equal terms. The second is that countless employers have been caught by the fact that they are setting it up to import cheap Eastern European labour completely into the system and that they do not touch a finger to offer these jobs so that the many unemployed who are already here can have a chance to fill those jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181623	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181626	The rapporteur insulted so many Danish employers, large Danish companies, who couldn't work if it wasn't for the many Eastern Europeans who are working in Denmark today. And by far, the vast majority of them work after the agreement. That's what I'm saying: there's kind of a job to get. The challenge is to get the recipients of cash benefits to take those jobs, and there we do not think the solution is to increase cash benefits, but to ensure that there is a ceiling on cash benefits and that working is always worthwhile. But I understand that there is a fundamental difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181705	I think that the rapporteur from the Left is mixing things up completely. The jobs we are talking about here are those of the government and the support parties that the government itself talks about, namely that there are plenty of these small jobs, six hours a week, and what else you come up with. These are not the jobs we are talking about when it comes to Eastern European workers who have been here for several years and who are employed in full-time jobs in industry and other professions on equal terms with Danish employees. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about the fact that where cash benefit recipients could have a chance was in services, agriculture, forestry, horticulture and other places where there is seasonal work or jobs of a few hours' duration. That's what we're talking about. How are the cash benefits recipients supposed to get in and get those jobs? They're already possessed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181752	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181757	I think, sir. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten in general argue very well against the ceiling on cash benefits, and my experience in this debate has also been that most people agree with Enhedslisten's argument, right until you point out the amounts that people receive in cash benefits. After all, everyone agrees that it is wrong to take something from people who are poor, if you push people into poverty and to some very, very low benefits. But the fact is that we still have the world's highest cash aid in Denmark, even after the ceiling on cash benefits. And the fact is that, for example, a single breadwinner receives 17,600 DKK. a month after tax, and most Danes actually think it's an amount you can manage for. My question to Mr. Finn Sørensen will be: Finn Sørensen on the size of the cash aid in Sweden, for example, or any other country where it is lower than in Denmark, since it is so hard and rough of us here in the Danish Parliament that we have introduced the ceiling for cash aid, which means that we still have the highest cash aid in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108181907	I am not going to deal with cash aid in Sweden or any other country. What we are discussing here is the changes that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov and his colleagues in the Blue Block have implemented here in Denmark. That's what we have to deal with. So we cannot, what can we say, get away from that discussion by saying: what is the position in Sweden, what is the rapporteur's position on this? But I'm glad about that question about the amount of 17,000 kroner, because there's a big experiment going on, yes, it looks almost like a very deliberate attempt to confuse the concepts around this. Because when one mentions such an amount, one forgets to say that when one arrives at the amount and a higher amount before the ceiling, it is due to the fact that that amount includes all public benefits that low-paid people in this country can receive. Well, in addition to housing support, housing security, you can get a child's check. You can get family allowances, you can get exceptional family allowances if there is a particularly good financial reason for it just to mention some central benefits that are expected. But it's benefits that all low-paid people can get, and that's, of course, if you're down on this HK salary, the same benefits you can get. I'll save it for the next time. I'm sorry. It's good to have something in the bag.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182024	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182026	Yes, of course we bring everything we have to live for when we mention how much we have to live for a month. It is not the case that people other than cash benefits can also receive housing security and child benefit. So yes, 17,600 kroner. After tax is what you have to live for a month, if you are single with two children on cash benefits, and I think that is an extremely reasonable level. I understand, then, that sir. Finn Sørensen does not think it is fair that we compare ourselves with other countries. I think that is a rather strange approach. When you swing into a tree here and drop the cash aid ceiling to some of the worst that has ever happened, I think it is fair to take into account that it is still the world's highest cash aid. But the Enhedslisten will not relate to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182110	Now the Conservative rapporteur forgot to say that of those 17 600 kroner. is payable on a flat-rate basis. We're gonna have to pull that off, aren't we? 7,300 kr. And then there's one more thing you've brought to get really thick on: child support, which isn't a public service. Child support is something, for example. A divorced man has to pay to the single breadwinner he left behind or whatever to call it. Child support is not a public service. Well, it just says something about how you like to try, yeah, maybe blow to a little jealousy, and what do I know? You have to keep in mind that low-paid people in this country are entitled to the same benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182154	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182158	It was fair enough to include the child's contribution, when we have decided in this Parliament, that one has the right to do so. Then the aforementioned father doesn't pay it, we do it from in here. That's why it was fair enough to go. Since Enhedslisten thinks that the 17,600 DKK that a single mother with two children wants to live for after the introduction of this cash aid ceiling is far too low, I would really like to hear: what should the amount • according to the Enhedslisten • then be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182233	It is, of course, in our position on this that we can start by rolling back that ceiling on cash benefits. There are no factual arguments for introducing it. It is not something that brings more people to work. And we note that, fortunately, it is all the parties in the opposition who criticise it. Unfortunately, we have the right to agree to abolish it again. But this is, in fact, the central battle we are currently conducting.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182300	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182302	That was not a concrete answer. I do not recall that Enhedslisten was of the opinion, before we introduced the ceiling for cash benefits, that the total amount of cash benefits at that time was high enough. I took the view that Enhedslisten thought that even before the ceiling, cash aid should be higher. In those days, a single mother with two children paid out some 20,000 kroner. a month. That would be enough, or does Enhedslisten think it should be even higher? I'm pretty convinced that Enhedslisten once thought so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182341	Enhedslisten still thinks so. That's just not what we're discussing here. We are discussing the fact that the parties in the blue bloc have implemented legislation that is extremely intrusive to vulnerable people in this country, and then we are trying to get together with all the parties that want to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182402	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182415	Thank you. In the '00s, the then government decided to introduce the ceiling on cash benefits and the very well-known poverty benefits. Everyone knows the result. More became poor, more had to go from house to home, inequality increased significantly in Denmark, and this did not provide any more in employment. The Social Democratic Government abolished these low benefits as one of the first when we arrived in 2011, and poverty actually fell during that period and the delays were reduced. But this had apparently not been learned from, because in the spring it was reinstated, and almost everyone warned both the government and also the Danish People's Party about the consequences it gave last time and very certainly would do again. The warnings were that this time it would hit the families of children and especially the single parents that it would hit the sick, the disabled and those who did not have the opportunity to act on it, that it would give more postponements and more, who would have to give up their current housing, where some of them would even have to move out to the places where the housing is cheaper but where the jobs do not exist. So all this happened? Yeah, you can sort of just keep up with the media. Thousands of people experience that they cannot afford to live for the money they get, and this is especially true of families with children. Cash benefits recipients are advised by municipalities in Copenhagen to move to Lolland. People are forced to go down in service without having an earthly chance to avoid it, even though the government says it will get people into work. I can give you many more examples, because it is virtually in the press every day. Then there are plenty of questions hanging in the air. Why can't the government and the Danish People's Party see that you can't take a job, even if you're ready for activity, i.e. when you're sick or somehow incapable of working? Why can it not be seen that there are not enough small jobs for all those affected by the 225-hour rule and that therefore they are not able to get a job and thus avoid this rule? And why are these people being sent to the outlying areas where the housing is cheap, but where there is no work to be done? That doesn't make any sense. Why is it so important to put other people in such a difficult situation that clearly will not bring them closer to the labour market? That didn't happen in the '00s either. What's the answer to that? Do you have to spend the money on tax cuts? Should the money be spent on giving good gifts to the bourgeois parties so as to avoid elections, even though the Prime Minister has said several times that he will not be Prime Minister at all costs? I don't know. I cannot answer that question, but I know that it is extremely unfair and very bad for our society, and that is why we in the Social Democrats have fought against these changes since they were proposed, together with the opposition, and that is why it will also be in huge focus both now and in the future. Then I would like to make the following (on behalf of S and RV): Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government's ceiling on cash benefits, 225-hour rule and integration benefit will increase poverty in Denmark and increase insecurity for ordinary employees. The Danish Parliament expresses concern about the consequences of the legislation, particularly in relation to families with children in Denmark. It is noted that the rules create social inequality and result in children growing up in poverty in Denmark. The Folketing calls for the government to conduct policies that ensure a socially fair safety net as well as, to a particular extent, proper conditions for all children throughout Denmark. At the same time, Parliament calls on the government to evaluate and follow the reforms of cash benefits, flexible jobs and early retirement, so that we avoid e.g. pointless bed practice and bureaucratic barriers to bringing people closer to the labour market. • V 7).
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182802	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments and the first is from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182808	Thank you for giving me the floor. First of all, I would like to ask about the ceiling on cash aid, which the Social Democratic Party is also talking about here. For some of what I have noticed in my research on today's debate is a contribution by the rapporteur, who is here on the platform, in which the rapporteur actually blesses the possibility of creating a ceiling for cash aid. But it wasn't exactly the cash benefits ceiling that V, K, DF and LA were all about. What, then, is a ceiling for social democracy to look like? I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182848	I do not know exactly what kind of speech Mrs Marlene Harpsøe refers to. But that is clearly what we have been saying from the outset in this debate that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule that has been made here do not do what they have to do. They do not get people going and they do not get people closer to the labour market. We saw that in the '00s, and we'll see it again. On the contrary, they increase poverty and create more delays. Everyone has said that, and we are beginning to see it quietly now. We can see that housing associations are saying that they are beginning to see more delays. In fact, several cash aid recipients cannot afford to pay for their accommodation, which is why we think it hits hammers. I think most people know that we have said that right from the start when this was proposed back in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182939	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108182943	But I have also noticed that the Social Democrats have been out to say that the Social Democrats will not promise that they will abolish the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. Well, then, what is it that we are standing here saying on the part of the Social Democratic Party, and what was the message we had when we went to the negotiations on the ceiling for cash aid at the time? It was precisely that a cash aid ceiling had to be created. But then the Social Democrats must come up with an idea of what they want to do in relation to the ceiling on cash benefits. Is there a special group that is considered to be covered by a ceiling on cash benefits? It would be nice if we could get a proposal for this today from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183023	What we did from day one when we did it in 2013-14 was to make a very good offer on the cash benefits reform, where we said that now it has to be the case that you look at the individual and that you have to give everyone a chance, i.e. the people who have been sitting out there on the bench for 30 years, all the people who are feeling really bad. The cash assistance reform we made in 2013-14 was actually a very good reform, and we're just thinking: Why not give it a chance? Why not let it be implemented out there, instead of starting to expect and demand everything else from the municipalities, what you can see they can't reach? We simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183057	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183102	With this cash aid ceiling, this single mother with two kids will be paid $1,800. a month. Does the rapporteur think that you are poor if you as a single mother get 17,600 kroner? paid out per month?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183125	I've been standing here many times, and sir... Joachim B. Olsen has tried several times to get me to relate to all those numbers, and he doesn't make me do that. The only thing I can see is that there are several families of children who are poorer by this... we saw in the '00s too... and there are more who are being exposed. We've already begun to see that people are reporting that, and this actually means a distortion out there. There are also more who start to say: you can move to cheap accommodations on Lolland and elsewhere. What's going on there? There are, in fact, no jobs out there, which means that they are forced into areas where there are no jobs. Does it get people started? No, it doesn't get people started. So I'm just saying that I shouldn't start to relate to what you can live for and what you can't live for. The only thing I can relate to is that this creates poverty and that it does not create a better opportunity to get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183210	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183213	It is very strange, of course, that we do not want to deal with the specific figures of a reform which limits the amount of money that can be paid out. However, the rapporteur said right now that he can see that more families with children are becoming poor. That is why we have to conclude that the rapporteur actually believes that a family with a single mother with two children who are paid DKK 17 600 is poor. I have to say, then, that you are not poor according to the previous government's own definition. It swims for the rapporteur. There's no head and tail in what's being said.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183250	Several housing companies have seen an increase in the number of tenants who can no longer pay their rent. The Herning housing company, which has 5,000 apartments, has sent out 50,000 more collection letters in October compared to last year, and there will be much more pressure on Christmas aid this year with the cash aid ceiling, says Salvation Army. And here I can mention many things with people who claim that you can start to see that these people are having problems, and even the municipalities are beginning to see it, and that is what I am dealing with. I have to say that there are a lot of families that are actually going to have a really difficult time, and I disagree vertically with the proposal that has come from the government and its support parties, and I remain so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183327	Thank you. Then it is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183331	You just think it's a lie. We are discussing legislation which deals with figures relating to how much you have to pay every month as a cash aid recipient, and then the Social Democrat rapporteur says that he will not relate to the size of the figures. How on earth should we be able to discuss whether cash aid is reasonable if the Social Democrats do not tell us what they consider reasonable, if not the Social Democrats will tell us about DKK 17 600. to a single mother, paid after tax in total benefits, is a reasonable amount? Then we can't have this discussion at all. Another thing to which I would like an answer is that, when the Social Democrats are thundering against this, we also have a right to know whether the Social Democrats are going to roll it back if they get power, otherwise it will be double-playing. Can we get a clear guarantee from the Social Democratic Party that this will be rolled back if the Social Democratic Party regains power?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183424	I can make a suggestion as to whether or not I think the ceiling on cash benefits is reasonable. I don't think it is. I think what was before the cash aid ceiling was reasonable. In fact, it would be worthwhile to work there too. This was the tax reform that the Socialist-led government did. It made it so that it was worthwhile to work. That's why there was no reason to make this cash-aid ceiling like you've done. So I can answer. I think that was fair before, and I think that things are going in the wrong direction now, especially when you can see that it is not working. Then I just have to say that yes, we can't go out and promise that we'll roll this back. Why can't we? It is because we already have a government and a Prime Minister who has done a lot of things that everyone in the opposition wants to roll back. And if we are also going to have that 2025 plan implemented, there are even more things we need to roll back, and what is in the box when we get to? The last time we came to, the box was completely empty, everything was used. So no, we can't, because we don't know what's left in the box when we get to. We have no idea, but there may be a little more if we get elections in two months' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183535	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183537	So we can see that if we have a social democratic government, we still have the ceiling on cash aid. If the Social Democrats are not going to say whether they are going to roll this back or not, then it is because the Social Democrats are not going to. If you were going to roll back the ceiling on cash aid, it would be very, very easy to say that you would do it, but you will not, because you know that you cannot. There won't be any money for it. And then all sorts of excuses are made for the current government to pursue a particularly irresponsible economic policy, whereas that is quite factually not the case. There's not gonna be a bigger hole in the box because of this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183619	Either you are wearing very big blinders or you are up for some political teasing, because if you have been following this issue from the very beginning, I think you can be in no doubt at all about what the Social Democrats think. You can also see that when we arrived in 2011, the first thing we did was to abolish these poverty benefits. That's the first thing we did. In fact, we are also the party that has put the most consultation questions in this whole matter; we are the party that has been most active; we are the party that has done the most against this, of course, together with the Enhedslisten. We've done everything we could to change this. We have tabled amendments, we have done everything. And if you still think we're in favour of this cash aid ceiling, then you don't follow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183658	Sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183703	But it is hypocritical beyond all bounds that we should be thundering against the ceiling of cash aid, and when we are asked specifically whether the Social Democrats will roll it back, there will be no answer. If that was the most important thing for the Social Democratic Party, I also believe that the Social Democratic Party could find 0.5 billion. kr. or 700 million kr. But that is the problem: I think basically that the Social Democratic Party is comfortable with the fact that a bourgeois government has now come to ensure that it pays off to work and feels bad about having to take it down again. So the question is whether the Social Democratic Party will answer today: should the ceiling for cash aid be rolled back?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183752	Well, you can ask all the questions you want, but you still get the same answer. I just have to say that one can look at the chronicle that our party chairman has written and where she also says that we will do our best to ensure a better economy for the affected families, that is, the families affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. You can look at all the things we've said. You can look at all the quotes there are. We could also hear at our congress that Mette Frederiksen, our party chairman, said to LO's chairman, Lizette Risgaard: Lur me if we will not look at it when we get to it. So you can tease everything you want, and you can question everything you want, but the truth is that we're against this. I don't think anyone's in doubt about that. And the truth is, the government can just pull out fast, because then there's more money in the box. That is what we are concerned about. Our concern is that this government, which is not particularly financially responsible, will certainly spend all the money on the tax cuts and everything else they have promised their blue friends.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183853	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183855	The truth is that it is the chairman of the LO who has to decide whether to roll back the ceiling on cash benefits. After all, there is money to do so if we want to implement the overall plan as well. There's 13 billion. kr. in reserve. So the question is: will the Social Democrats roll back the ceiling of cash aid? That is the crucial question. And when the chairman of the Social Democratic Party uses 2200 words in a novel in Politiken and does not even find room to mention that the cash aid ceiling should be rolled back, it must basically mean that the Social Democracy is satisfied with its existence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108183937	Of course it's neither the LO nor anyone else who decides our policy unless mr. Hans Andersen believes that it is the Danish Employers' Association that decides the government's policy. For the only people who in their hearing agreed in this way that it was a good idea with the cash aid ceiling were the Danish Employers' Association. So if sir... Hans Andersen admits that it is in this way the Danish Employers' Association that makes the policy of the Left, it is of course very interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184006	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184009	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. I am glad that we are fighting together against this ceiling of cash aid, and I think that the rapporteur is doing quite well with a lot of good arguments. What I do not understand is the rapporteur's justification for not promising to remove these poverty benefits again when we get the majority together. The reason is that you don't know what's in the box after the next parliamentary election. No, that is absolutely right, nobody knows that, but the fact that you do not know what is in the box has obviously not prevented the President of the Social Democratic Party from going out with an overall plan promising 30 billion. kr. What exactly is this all about?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184103	I would like to thank you for the rose from Finn Sørensen, sir.), Mr. Finn Sørensen. We have fought about this together, and we will continue to do so. I just feel that I simply cannot understand how we can question what we mean and what we intend to do on this point. I just don't understand. Everyone here knows that it was we who abolished those poverty benefits. Everyone knows that from day one we've been thundering against this. And you can find a lot of quotes about what you can look at in our proposal for adoption, you can look at the crowns you can find a sea of quotes that you can make if we don't touch this. As far as I am concerned, it is as if you are either totally blinded or making political jokes, because I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who is in doubt about what we want and what we stand for on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184154	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184156	I guess it's no wonder we're asking questions about it. Well, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen and his party oppose these poverty benefits, but when we propose that the rapporteur sign a proposal for adoption which clearly states that we commit ourselves to abolishing them again, the rapporteur will not sign it. I would also like to remind the rapporteur that in last year's discussion of the draft Finance Act in the Danish Parliament, the Social Democratic Party tabled amendments to the Finance Act for 2015 to remove the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule. What has happened in the meantime, so that it will not be promised again? Can the rapporteur not understand that there is a great deal of wondering, both on one side and on the other side of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184240	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184243	No, I really cannot, because in this matter of the cash aid ceiling we also tabled amendments to make it easier for these people, and we also supported the proposal to remove some of the groups tabled by Enhedslisten. And so we voted against the proposal itself. So I kind of find it hard to see why you're wondering.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184308	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184312	Yes, I have now been asked several times to look at the quotations, and we have done so. You guys have been open to discussing and actually negotiating this cash aid ceiling. I see this as being in favour of the premise of creating a ceiling on cash benefits. And then I would like to follow up on a previous question from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe about what it should have looked like for you to have participated in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184340	What we have said is that we always go into all the negotiations, but we have also made it quite clear that, as things stand here, we say no to it immediately. I remember that I was also called by the Minister for Employment at the time, and the answer was no, we cannot agree to that. I know that the Danish People's Party doesn't really care. They can agree to take money from cash aid recipients, from sick people, from disabled people, perhaps to give it to top tax reliefs. There is just no social democracy, and we clearly refused to do so when it was presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184413	Mrs. Merete Dea Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184415	Yes, I think it was the Social Democrats' own agenda that just went in and made it worse for early retirement and disabled people and others, while at the same time taking off on taxes. But I still do not have an answer to the fact that, once again, it is said that you would not accept the premise that had been put forward, which premise would you have agreed to? What kind of a cash-aid ceiling did you see yourself in? If we ignore what is being discussed here today, what is the ceiling on social aid that the Social Democrats could have seen themselves in?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184443	I have to say that it is called Social Democracy and not I. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184449	Well, I just have to say that you make it sound like it's Social Democracy's fault these people have lost a lot of money. I just have to tell the Danish People's Party that it is time to stop washing your hands here, because it was the Danish People's Party, it was all those who sat down in the Chamber on that day who are guilty of these people becoming poor and they are losing money. The Danish People's Party could have just voted against it. They could have just gone against it. Every single vote was valid, but the Danish People's Party chose to support a bourgeois government, and so the Danish People's Party must answer for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184523	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184527	Thank you. I would also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his speech. The rapporteur very well describes the very dramatic consequences of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule and integration benefit for a lot of specific people, namely that they risk being put out of their own homes. The rapporteur himself mentions how more housing companies have been forced to send out more reminders just as a result of this. After all, these are dramatic consequences, and they are specific people. That is why I cannot fully understand the Social Democrat rapporteur. Because does the rapporteur not understand that these people who are actually being affected actually need someone to say: this is unfair and we promise to roll back at the same time as we get the opportunity to do so? These people need a hope for them too that there are some who recognise that this is an absurdity and that they will roll it back at the moment they get the opportunity. Will the Social Democrat rapporteur not help to give it hope for those people and give them a belief that their future can look brighter when we have a new government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184636	I just think that sir... Peder Hvelplund needs to look at our proposal for adoption. It is very, very identical to the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption except to roll it back. It's kind of the same thing when we say it's unfair and we don't understand this. They were, in fact, completely identical. So with that, we are completely in line with the position of Enhedslisten, which is why I am sure that Enhedslisten can only think that what we are saying is correct. I know that we will, of course, do everything we can, and that is what has been said in the motion for a resolution, and we have said that to quotes in several places to help these people when we get to, just as we did when we were at the last time, just as we have dealt with this all these months. We will do the same when we get to it. It will be with the Enhedslisten, and it will be with the current opposition. That's the way it is, and we'll do it. We just can't promise exactly how, because we don't know what's of money. But I think no one here is in any doubt that we will do everything we can to give these people a better life.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184741	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184744	That is why I started by commending the rapporteur. It is because I fully share the rapporteur's analysis. What I am calling for is the consequence of the analysis, which states that this is an absurdity and that it will therefore be rolled back because that is what people need. The people who are affected by this don't need us to just acknowledge that it's bad. They also need to hear that not only is there a great probability, but a certainty that this is being rolled back at the same time the government is changing. That's just the hope I'm calling for the Socialists to be involved in lighting up these people too. Not that it is unreasonable for them to have been hit, but that it should also be rolled back.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184828	Mrs Mette Frederiksen has said at the conference: let me know if we are not looking at it. And I've said that we'll do everything we can to give these people a better life when we get to, and I think that's a big word.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184843	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184846	I think it has been interesting to follow this debate on 2025 plans; one has had an extremely high focus on creating security for homeowners, and then such a competition arose where social democracy would do at least as well as it would in the bourgeois bloc in securing billions for homeowners, so that there could be some security. I find it rather striking that the same interest has not been shown to the tenants and, in particular, to the tenants who may be affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. Because if only in those forward-looking plans one billion had been set aside for the tenants who are hit by the cash aid ceiling, one could really have trumped the government and made a move that would have provided security for even more people who have a dwelling. I think it has been a good debate because there has been so much focus on housing. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it will not be possible to look again at how to create that security for tenants, bearing in mind that so many billions will be spent on the benefit of some owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108184950	I would like to repeat myself once again: we cannot and will not promise anything when we do not know the economic consequences. I know that Enhedslisten doesn't have much trouble doing that, although they don't know the financial consequences, but we don't. However, we should not be in any doubt about where we stand and we should not be in any doubt that we will do everything we can to help these people. I think everyone agrees on that. You still have to ask me everything you want, but I'm not getting any closer than this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185016	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185018	But then it has to be said that the Social Democracy will spend far more billions on homeowners than on homeowners. That's the short version. I would really like to hear the rapporteur: what if there is a choice within a few months? It must then be possible to say something which, as it were, is intended to accommodate the recipients of cash benefits who are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. I understand that it may be a little difficult if there are three years in the next elections, but what if the elections come in a very short time? Can't you say that you really want to do something to roll this back?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185053	The proposal for adoption states: "The Parliament calls for the government to conduct policies that ensure a socially fair safety net and, to a particular extent, proper conditions for all children throughout Denmark. We have said that this ceiling on cash benefits does not guarantee it, and that is why we want to do what we are saying here. And if we get into government, we'll work on these guidelines and do everything we can to ensure proper conditions for all children in Denmark. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185117	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185120	Now I've heard sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says that we are not going to come any closer to an answer from the Social Democratic Party about what will be done in concrete terms on the day you come into government. But I really ask in all comradeship our neighbouring Party Social Democracy: what is it that you are so afraid of in Social Democracy? When Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says that we do not know the economic consequences, so I have to say: yes, we do. We know the economic consequences for the people who get caught up in this low-ceilinged cash aid scold, and that's probably the most important thing. Well, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, would it not be helpful to give some spirit and some faith in an alternative to this government if the Social Democrats were to make it clear more firmly what it is that you have when you enter a government, which we are likely to face in a short space of time?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185217	I am well aware of the economic consequences for these families, because I am probably one of those who has participated in the most consultations and also called for the most consultation in relation to this. I have been standing in the Chamber for many, many hours, I have asked incredibly many questions and been more diligent than most and have read all the answers. I am well aware of the economic consequences for these people, and that is not nice; that is what I have taken the trouble to do, and that is what I am still trying to do. And that is why we are also saying in our proposal for adoption that we will ensure and ensure that these people have proper conditions. But I am just saying again: the reason why we cannot do this is that we do not know the economic opportunities in the box at the time because it has been empty before. We can't know what's gonna happen in three years. There's a lot of people claiming there'll be elections in two months. We don't know that. It could be three-year-old elections and then what? It is Enhedslisten and SF so little care, but we are not, we have to deal with that. That's just the way it is. And then, as we approach the elections, we have to see what it looks like, and then we have to make a bid for it. And we will.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185323	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185325	It is simply not fair to say that the SF should not be interested in having a coherent economy. But I know what it was, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen believed, when it was said that the financial consequences were not known, that was the consequences for government finances. My question was an attempt to get the attention of the Social Democratic Party turned to the consequences today for the people who are affected by it. And I have to say that it is perhaps a little more important to calm down than how we can resolve the situation in the future, where we will find the half-billion it is about. I doubt whether it really is a viable strategy for the opposition if Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen continues what I almost think is such a bit of fat-playing compared to quitting. It's like you've been scared of your own shadow because you got your fingers burned with some election promises. But here it is about creating the security of a whole lot of people and putting a credible alternative over the opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185418	We haven't been afraid of our own shadow. We also know that we will eventually be in government. I don't know if SF knows, but we know we do. Therefore, we just have to stick to the fact that we will always fight everything we can for these people. We did it last time, and we will do it again, and we have done it over this period. So again I just have to say that I do not understand that you can believe otherwise with all the things we have now said in the platform and various consultations. I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185451	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Helle Osther Friedrichsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185457	Thank you. The rapporteur has just said that the Social Democratic Party is not responsible for the many cash aid recipients. However, during the last government, the Social Democratic Party, together with their government partners, decided on the early and flexitime reform, and many of these people are today on cash aid. So I should like to ask the rapporteur whether the Social Democrats do not think they have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185522-2	Yes, we have a huge responsibility for the reforms we made at the time, and note that together with the Radicals in our adoption we write: "The Danish Parliament also calls on the government to evaluate and follow the reforms of cash benefits, flexible jobs and early retirement at the end of the day, so that we avoid e.g. pointless bed practice and bureaucratic barriers to bringing people closer to the labour market. We say this because we ourselves think that the reforms we made at the time are good in their intentions. But we also know that it hasn't come all the way out there as we would like. And we also know that this is not happening at all, as we want it to be done, either in relation to the course of resources or anything else. That is why this text is, of course, a recognition both from us and from the Radicals that if anyone has to solve it, it is of course we who have helped to do it. We also want to take that responsibility and we want to help change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185615	Mrs. Helle Osther Friedrichsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185617	I just want to thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185620	Then the word goes on to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185624	Thank you. I'd like to try to explain to you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, why we drill a little bit in this. In Haderslev Municipality there are a couple called Sally and Stefan, and they have lost half of their income here on October 1st because of the 225-hour rule. She suffers from severe skin disease and a number of other diseases, and he is even more ill. They are watching this debate now, and they have written to me in the last few days whether or not something is coming out of this debate, because they are in a hopeless situation. And for them, and for them, a lot of others, it's about getting a light on in the dark. It's about seeing a light at the end of the tunnel that this government has sent them into with the shameful cash aid reform. That is the light that the Socialists will not help to light up by issuing a clear guarantee, a clear promise that, of course, this will be abolished as the first act of an overall opposition following elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185733	The last time we were in government, we abolished the poverty benefits as one of the first. And I have no doubt that it will be much better for them, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted is talking about now and for thousands of others who are listening today, and who have gotten really bad in this cash relief ceiling if there comes a red government, and hopefully it will be soon. I don't doubt that for a second.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185755	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185756	That is exactly what is so bad: if you have no doubt about it, why is it that we cannot agree clearly and clearly that we can abolish it here? Because it is true what other rapporteurs have said, that the Socialists can guarantee that 30 billion will be set aside. kr. to the landlords. You can guarantee that. But there is no guarantee that 600 million will be set aside. kr. to remove the cash benefits ceiling. Well, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen does not understand that we can be afraid of the imbalance in the fact that one can promise one thing, but the other one cannot be promised?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185835	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185836	Well, we can just do what Enhedslisten always does, and just laws and laws, laws gold and green forests without having any economic answer to anything at all. Is that what our constituents want? No, I don't think so. Because they are well aware that when we get to, we will both be financially responsible and also take responsibility for these people and help them to have a better life. So the one that Enhedslisten uses, I'm not buying. I don't. You have to be financially responsible. That's the difference, but we've also shown responsibility to these people. We did that with the Enhedslisten when we were in government. I've been standing with mr. Finn Sørensen and fought to avoid this, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185913	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen and goes on to the rapporteur to Mrs Malene Harpsøe, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108185930	The ceiling on cash benefits creates an economic incentive to take ordinary work. It is best for both individuals and society that people who can work are in ordinary employment rather than on public support. If you can work, you have to work, and if you can't work, you don't have to work. It must be worthwhile to be in ordinary employment. You shouldn't get more out of being on cash benefits than in an ordinary job. There are jobs to get. There are more than 700,000 job openings in one year and job growth is also positive. Today, many new jobs go to Eastern Europeans, although Danes would be able to do these jobs. If you are disabled and have been assigned a special home, which is therefore extra expensive, you are exempted from the ceiling on cash benefits, as are persons who, for example, are entitled to benefits in kind. is in resource sequences, is exempt from the rules on both the ceiling and 225 hours of employment in one year. The 225-hour rule has meant that more stringent requirements have to be made available to the labour market as a recipient of cash benefits. This means that you must have been in work at least 225 hours in one year in order to receive the full cash benefits. It increases the incentive to take a job rather than go on cash benefits. The 225 hours correspond to e.g. 6 weeks of full-time work in 1 year and just a few hours of work a week, for example. Two hours will mean that you will receive more money together, as this means, for example, that you will receive more money. e.g. released housing support or special support. Persons with such a limited ability to work that the municipality estimates that they will not be able to work 225 hours within one year on the ordinary labour market are not covered by the 225-hour rule. People from non-western countries are over-represented at job centres. It turns out, for example. in relation to cash benefits. Figures from the Ministry of Employment have, for example: It has just been shown that among people who have spent more than 10 years on cash benefits 41 per cent. a non-Western origin. These are alarming numbers. One has slept per hour, one has ironed the group of non-western immigrants with their hairs instead of making demands. This group must be required, and both the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule can contribute to this. In addition, we have introduced an integration benefit and this benefit is lower than cash benefits. The purpose of the integration service has been two things in particular. Firstly, it became less attractive for asylum seekers and migrants to apply to Denmark, and it has worked. Secondly, the integration service has an employment-oriented objective which must create economic incentives to enter employment in order to become integrated and self-supporting. For example, in the area of asylum, for 2007 it has been the case. This meant that Denmark needed 3 billion. kr. less than in 2016. The 3 billion. kr. We can use other means, for example. in the vicinity or in the health care system. Too many people of non-Western origin are today supported by the government and not by their own income on the basis of unaided employment. And it is a development that must be reversed. Therefore, on behalf of the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party, I have to make the following proposals for adoption.The Danish Parliament notes that the parties to the agreement work to ensure that fewer people receive public support by becoming more members of the working community. The job reform and the introduction of the integration benefit provide the right balance between a reasonable level of dependency and a real economic incentive to work, that the norm in Denmark should be self-supporting through employment, and that the introduction of the integration benefit provides a greater incentive to work. At the same time, the integration allowance should make it less attractive to come to Denmark to receive public support, including reducing the number of foreigners receiving public support, and the municipalities' obligation to ensure that citizens receive the right help in getting jobs or training, including ensuring clarification of the beneficiaries of cash benefits who are more permanently unable to work. The Danish Parliament notes that the parties to the agreement are closely following developments in this area, including an evaluation of the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule in 2017. V 8).
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190423	We thank the rapporteur for the time being, but there are a number of brief comments here. First, it's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190429	Thank you. I know that when we were in the Chamber last spring and dealt with this bill, the Danish People's Party made it clear that no sick or disabled person should be on cash benefits. They had made an agreement with the government, they said, so you wouldn't see the sick and the disabled go down sharply in service, because there they didn't belong. We even got the feeling that when we reached 1 October, not many of them or none of them were sick and disabled who would go down in service. So I have to ask Mrs Marlene Harpsøe today: what does it look like today, a month after the law has entered into force? Are there people with disabilities who are getting less money because of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule that the Danish People's Party voted for?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190513	Now it is the case that when we discuss this area and whether you are ill or disabled, we must of course also bear in mind that there is a difference between what is wrong and what disability you have. For example: We have chosen not to exempt deaf people from the ceiling on cash benefits. It is because it is not in itself that, because you cannot hear, you do not have the resources to be able to work. I myself know a few people who are either hearing impaired or completely deaf, but who also have demanding jobs. It's just to say that you can't automatically say that if it's that people have a disability, it means they can't work. In many cases you can work, but if you have a permanently reduced ability to work, you should of course not be on cash benefits. That goes without saying. It's totally hopeless.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190608	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190609	So what the rapporteur also says is that we all know that there are 70 to 80%. of those who are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits that are ready for activity. This means that they are ill or disabled and have no opportunity to get to work because they are not ready for work. So the Danish People's Party has no problem with taking money from them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190629	I think this is a rather strange way of setting it up, especially when we consider that the Social Democrats cannot, in this way, even put forward a better alternative to the ceiling on cash aid and the 225-hour rule that we have introduced. Well, in the Danish People's Party we recognise that not everything is perfect. One could create a more inclusive labour market which made it easier for people with disabilities to get a job in particular, but frankly: Social democracy will not even promise to roll back the ceiling, but says very conveniently that it is not affordable. But this is really about political priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190708	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190709	Thank you. After all, the Minister has answered a question from me about how many of those who are affected by the ceiling are ready for activity, that is. how many municipalities have assessed that are unable to work. The minister has replied that it is 23,000. In other words, 23,000 people are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, although the municipalities have estimated that they are not able to work. The Danish People's Party wants to see itself as a party that looks after the sick and the weak and people with disabilities. Why, then, has the Danish People's Party not ensured that these people will be exempted from the ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190750	Being on cash benefits has to be temporary. I am so well aware that we are hearing about examples that are very horrifying from the various municipalities: people who have been on cash benefits for as long as 24 years. And it has to be said that some have failed their responsibilities. It is both in the municipalities and here in the Danish Parliament that we have not intervened enough to ensure that there is proper treatment of the citizens in the different job centres. Because it goes without saying that if you're on cash benefits, which is planned and made as a temporary benefit, then you shouldn't be on cash benefits for years. It's clearly a mistake that there are cases where you've seen these long-term cash benefits. Moreover, this is something that we have just made a wage-pool agreement on in relation to screening the long-term recipients of cash benefits in order to ensure that people are quickly clarified, including those who may be in the system and who have been ill for a number of years. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party have attached particular importance to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190852	I fully agree that some have failed, but it is they who have made the law that have failed. After all, the Danish People's Party knew the reality when the bill was adopted. They knew that we were asking that there are thousands of people who cannot work because of chronic diseases or disabilities. We all knew that when the bill was passed and we warned what the consequences would be. And the media are swimming over with examples, most recently the example of Politiken with Lene, who is spastically paralyzed. She has been exempted from the 225-hour rule because she cannot deliver 6 hours of work, but she has been hit by the ceiling. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190931	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108190932	Well, everything isn't perfect. Unfortunately, we are not living in a perfect world. But far along the way, I think that the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule are within the dial. When I say that everything is not perfect, for example, it is because it could be convenient if Mrs Mette Frederiksen's flexible job and early retirement reform had not made it extremely difficult to get early retirement. For it is clear that it also pushes some people, among other things. Some with a disability, into the cash benefits system, where they would actually have been able to receive an early retirement pension under the previous rules. But the Social Democrats will not change that, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191009	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191012	I'd like to stick to the story of this couple down in Haderslev, Sally and Stephan. She has a severe skin disease that causes her to be treated continuously and very much. He has serious back problems after many years on the labour market. And they've lost half their income this month. They have a 12-year-old child. They have lost half of their income, they now live on a cash benefits • one cash benefit for two adult people and a child. Does the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party agree that the rapporteur has a responsibility, a direct responsibility, for the situation in which Sally and Stephan are placed?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191056	In this way, I do not think that we, as parliamentary politicians, should go in and deal with specific situations. Sir. Pelle Dragsted has had a dialogue with some people who are covered by the cash benefits ceiling. I do not know the people in question, but I am quite convinced that the municipality, with which the people in question are also in contact, knows them much better than both Mr. Pelle Dragsted and myself. Therefore, I must be confident that the municipality is, as a starting point, able to manage the rules as they are. But are they not and we sometimes see that they hit outside the dial, among other things. in relation to the long-term recipients of cash benefits and the cases that we have put on the table there and are some who fail, but then I think that we in the Danish Parliament should certainly urge the municipalities to ensure proper and fair treatment of the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191153	But that is the problem, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe. They manage according to the rules. They manage according to the rules that the rapporteur has secured the government's majority in order to implement. These are the rules that are administered. I could have more respect for the rapporteur if the rapporteur would take responsibility rather than the hypocrisy of saying: it is just the municipalities; it is probably something that is mismanaged. No, it's not. You have, with open eyes, despite warnings I myself was involved in the debate, adopted legislation that has put the people who are sick in the situation they are today. Confess it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191234	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191236	I would like to acknowledge that our position in the Danish People's Party is that if you can't work then you can't work and it's long-term, and if you don't work at all in the long term, you shouldn't work, and you shouldn't be in the cash benefits system at all. And I actually think that is one of the things I have repeated time and time again. But I'm well aware that sir... Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten has a completely different agenda in relation to exhibiting the Danish People's Party. We have seen this repeatedly in the Parliamentary Chamber in connection with the ceiling on cash aid. Sir. Pelle Dragsted is welcome to have his own agenda, but I just have to say from the Danish People's Party that it is completely wrong and that this is a wrong way of interpreting our intentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191318	Then it's Mrs. Julie Skovsby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191321	Thank you. The rapporteur said in this Chamber: no sick or disabled person should be on cash aid. That is why my question is: is it still the position of the Danish People's Party and will the Danish People's Party work to get these people excluded from the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191344	As I have said, there is a big difference between what kind of illness you have and what kind of disability you have. I mean, as I said, I know people with disabilities who have very resource-intensive jobs. I even know someone who has a very, very serious illness, but who still works 37 hours a week. Well, it's very, very different from person to person, what you can't and what you can't. And it must be the job of the job centres in individual situations to see whether you can work or not on the basis of the disability you have or the disease you may have. That is not to say that you just have to say that all the sick and all the disabled just have to work because they shouldn't if they can't. That must be the case, of course. And then the job centres must help to ensure that they get through the rehabilitation team and possibly get a resource cycle and then get an early retirement pension or get into flex jobs, depending on what the individual can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191450	The rapporteur could have just answered yes. Yes, the people who cannot work, the people who are too sick to work, should not work. There are even people who have become sick from going to work who are affected by this. The Danish People's Party totally fails these people. And now you have the chance to say: No, we do not; we will continue to work for the exclusion of sick people or people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191526	Now it is the case that the Social Democratic Party would really like to have a cash aid ceiling itself. At any rate, I was able to read about this in the speech by the Socialist Group's own rapporteur. So I think it's kind of weird to have to start and take part in this debate. We have said, and I have said this again and again, that if you are ill or disabled and cannot work, then you should not work. Period. That does not have to be interpreted in all sorts of strange directions that make no sense in the real world. However, it is, after all, the Social Democratic Party that is failing a little here when you cannot even say how you see the rules arranged.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191605	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191609	Thank you. The rapporteur starts his speech by saying: the ceiling on cash benefits creates incentives to take ordinary work. Thank you, I guess. Where did that come from? Now it's the case that I'm burdened with a little bit of knowledge in this area because I've been working on it for many years. Among other things: I would also like to mention some of the 23 000 units of activity which are also affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, and which cannot take up a job, or some of the people whom Mr. Pelle Dragsted mentioned earlier in the debate. And if there's an experience I have in relation to them, it's that you're not bringing them closer to work by weakening their terms. You do not bring them closer to the labour market by making them poorer, by going home and home from them, by forcing them to move and to find another home, or by making their daily lives even more difficult. They will not get any closer to the labour market, on the contrary. What helps them closer to the labour market is to be able to bring them more profits, more opportunities to go out seeking a job, more opportunities to participate in normal social activities that bring them closer to ordinary life and bring them closer to ordinary work. So I do not understand the rapporteur's statement that the ceiling on cash benefits should give a greater incentive to get an ordinary job.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191726	Thank you! When I stand up and say thank you, it is because you have to finish so quickly, because then the speaking time has expired. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191733	It can happen to even the best, it's happened to me too. However, in terms of bringing people who are on the edge of the labour market closer to the labour market, I have to say that we agree with the intention to ensure that people in the cash benefits system too should be brought closer to the labour market. And, of course, you can do that in different ways. You can do that, for example. In this context, it should be noted that the local authorities, the employment centres, are making a very strenuous effort both to establish a dialogue with the individual recipient of cash benefits, but also to ensure a good network of local companies and to hear them about what kind of labour they are looking for, and then to match the wishes of companies with some of the people who are thus recipients of cash benefits. That's one of the things you can do from the job centres. Because I fully agree that it is really important to bring people closer to the labour market. But having said that, at least that's what I hear around us, we also have a lot of cash benefits who have now become more active in looking for jobs, and that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191842	Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191844	Well, all the things mentioned by the rapporteur are being done at the job centres today. The new thing we are doing now is sending out a letter to citizens that they are being put down in their cash benefits, and they are receiving letters from housing companies that they are losing their homes. Can the rapporteur not explain how this would bring them closer to the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191902	Now Mr. Peder Hvelplund that it is already being done by the job centres today. I would say that all job centres could actually sit down and say: how can we, in one way or another, strengthen the efforts we are making? That is what we are doing, for example. in the municipality of Elsinore, where I myself am a member of the council, and where, in fact, we have just started a project at the moment, where we have employed some business consultants who spend much more time on the individual citizen and on the business network. And so far, it's really, really positive results that are of this effort. I think that all job centres would benefit by looking at themselves in the cards and looking at how they could do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191941	Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108191944	Thank you. From what the rapporteur says here, it is easy to conclude that even if people are ill or disabled, they must be hit by the ceiling on cash benefits. It does not mean anything to the rapporteur that there are over 20,000 people in this country who, despite the fact that the Danish People's Party has said that no one is to be hit, are being hit by the ceiling on cash aid. The Danish People's Party is supposed to be the helper and support of the weak. This also applies to the sick and the disabled. As chairman of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, the rapporteur himself has heard a deputation of the deaf and the blind ahead of this debate on the bill telling us about their opportunities for employment. The employment rate among ordinary people is on average approx. 77% Among the blind, it is 43%. Then you can ask yourself how much chance you have of getting a job at all...
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192050	Then it is the rapporteur's time to reply. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192056	There were a lot of comments that one would like to answer, and then there was a question at the other end. It makes it pretty difficult for me to have to shoot back with words on everything that has been said. But overall, if you are so ill or disabled that you cannot work, you should not work. Period. And if you're on cash benefits and you're so sick or disabled that you can't work and never ever get to work again, you shouldn't be on cash benefits. Then you have to go to another service. Period. That's the way it is. Done, done, closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192133	So my question to the rapporteur must be: will the Danish People's Party then ensure that these people are taken out of this scheme so that they are not affected by the ceiling on cash benefits? What is the rapporteur's response to that? I do not want to hear the rapporteur say that they can put on the jahat. We will hear an answer to what the Danish People's Party will do to ensure that the people who are sick and disabled and are currently affected by the ceiling on cash benefits are taken out of that scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192202	If you are so ill or disabled that you cannot work and do not get to work because there are, for example, If you're a doctor who evaluates it, you shouldn't work. I certainly think I have marked it repeatedly. But I also know very well that this flex-job and early retirement reform has been set up, which was the hand of the Social Democratic Party, it can be said, with Mrs Mette Frederiksen at the table. This has made it much harder to get early retirement. We'll just have to say that. The Danish People's Party was not in that agreement. But the Social Democrats have a responsibility here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192237	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192242	I would ask Mrs Marlene Harpsøe to address the increase in the number of people we are talking about, as has happened, from the legislative proposal presented and to the situation we are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192257	I can relate to the fact that we have introduced the ceiling on cash benefits in order to create an economic incentive to take an ordinary job. Today it is the case that of the married couples, where both are on cash benefits, 84 per cent have. non-Western origin. It says something about someone who has slept for too long an hour and has taken on this group, which is people of non-Western origin, with velvet gloves. And I can certainly say that there really is something here that can be done better, and I actually think that is something that the 225-hour rule will be able to ensure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192341	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192343	I must say, I was surprised. That answer had nothing to do with my question; it was not even near it. I have to ask Mrs Marlene Harpsøe to deal with the developments in the number of people affected by the ceiling on cash benefits from the time the law was put forward and the situation we are today. I know that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe does not like the fact that there are several themes in the question, because then the rapporteur is often confused and uses it as an excuse not to answer, but here I am dealing with a very simple theme. I would ask the rapporteur to reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192410	The numbers are as the numbers are. It is the case that we have introduced a cash aid ceiling and a 225-hour rule, and there are some people who are subject to those rules. And developments are as they are, and I cannot change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192432	I have to say quite clearly that there is no discussion at the bottom of the House. Then we will certainly not be able to control it at all. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192441	Thank you. I have no respect for people, politicians who make demands on cash aid recipients without giving them any opportunities, without providing them with jobs. Where are these people going to find 225 hours of work? When do we hear the Danish People's Party make a demand to the municipalities to make the jobs that will then be used available to the people who can
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192509	I think we have also created some financial incentives for municipalities to ensure that people work very hard to get the individual to work rather than to be on public support. The reform of reimbursements, such as the one we have. I believe that a large number of people will find themselves in ordinary employment, because the incentive given by the municipalities to ensure that they get to work has been changed. And as I see it, there are still a number of municipalities that could make the work even better in order to ensure that people get into ordinary employment. And that is something they must continue to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192554	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192557	It wasn't an answer to that. If you want to force people on cash aid to do something and just lure the municipalities into helping them, you don't get very far. Why on earth is it so difficult to make demands, conditions for municipalities to make these things available to the people who have to work 225 hours? We have done so in a lot of other areas, and we have told the municipalities that they should do so quite simply, even by a party such as the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192627	I certainly think that for example. The reform of reimbursement increases the requirement for municipalities and shows that, for example, if they do not comply with the conditions laid down in the Treaty on European Union, they do not have the right to vote in local elections. If you do not ensure that cash benefits recipients are in regular employment, it will cost the municipality much more money. And that is something that I think will have a really good effect on the municipalities in terms of ensuring that you work much more purposefully towards the individual citizen in relation to getting employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192657	Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192659	Thank you very much. I have been listening to the debate and the rapporteur has talked a great deal about the social democracy and the social democracy's relationship with the cash aid ceiling. As a Social Democrat, you can't help but notice that. However, I have to ask the rapporteur whether it was the rapporteur's party, the Danish People's Party, or whether it was the Social Democrats who voted in favour of the cash aid ceiling, who voted in favour of reducing the money for the people on cash aid. I would really like to clarify that. Because it seems almost as I hear it, as if the rapporteur thinks that the Social Democrats have voted in favour of it and that it is the Danish People's Party that has not voted in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192738	No, sir. Kaare Dybvad is in fact a good idea that the Danish People's Party is behind the cash aid ceiling, which we are talking about here today, but also the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, because it creates good financial incentives to get to work. In fact, you also hear some stories about some people who have suddenly understood that this is serious and that they better get a job and get to work. There are also stories about people who actually get to work. But what I am criticizing on behalf of the Danish People's Party is that the Social Democrats say in a debate speech that you want to have a cash aid ceiling, but you cannot even tell what the ceiling for cash aid should be. You just peck on the Danish People's Party, on the Left and on the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party for the cash aid ceiling that we have established, but you will not even present a suggestion as to how you actually see the rules set up yourself and that is something weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192833	Yes, but when you vote against proposals, you have that right to criticise them as well. We have justified this on several occasions down here, so I do not understand why the rapporteur has not listened to this when our rapporteur has been on the floor in this context. But I have to ask: if you have such a bleeding heart, as the rapporteur says, to the people who are hit by the ceiling on cash aid, why has the Danish People's Party voted in favour of it at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192856	In the Danish People's Party, we were behind the former cash aid ceiling, and we are also behind the cash aid ceiling that we have introduced earlier this year. It is positive to create financial incentives to take a job, for some people need it. But I must also say on financial incentives that this is something that the Social Democrats like, because otherwise they would not have made a cash aid reform with a lower level of education for people under 30 years of age who are also creating an economic incentive. So we're actually just making some social democratic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192933	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108192937	I would like to ask how the Danish People's Party feels about the fact that we have the world's highest cash aid in Denmark. Is it something that fills the Danish People's Party with shame and a guilty conscience that you have been involved in adopting this level of cash assistance, or is the Danish People's Party satisfied that cash assistance is so extremely high in Denmark compared to most of our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193004	What we in the Danish People's Party are looking at is whether it pays to work. What is the level of cash benefits in relation to getting out and getting an ordinary job? That is what we have been looking at from the Danish People's Party. And there we just have to say that before there was a cash aid ceiling, there was a mismatch with that very thing. It was therefore that we in the Danish People's Party also agreed very much that this ceiling of cash aid that we had in the past should be reinstated, and then of course also ensure a 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193037	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193039	Now when you hear that a mother with two children quite factually has 17,600 kr. paid after tax per month each month, when you take the total benefits • 17,600 kr., which trumps into her bank account, and there fore free places for her children on top of that is a level that makes the Danish People's Party think: This creates poverty and misery in Denmark and a social mass grave? Or does the Danish People's Party think it is a reasonable substitute to offer such a mother?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193117	In the Danish People's Party, of course, we would not have voted in favour of the ceiling if we did not consider it reasonable. And you can at least say that the fact that you can see that there is a crucial difference in crowns and ears between being in jobs rather than being on cash benefits can be decisive for some. I believe, in particular, that for the large group of people of non-Western origin who are currently on cash aid, it will be absolutely crucial. Among other things: In particular, for immigrant women who are currently under social control, the 225-hour rule will certainly have an effect and will ensure that more people enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193154	Then it's Helle Osther Friedrichsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193155	The rapporteur replied to a question that we cannot go into the matter. I understand that perfectly well, but we just have to remember that behind the word 'cash aid recipient' there are actually real people and we have to relate to their history. In the rapporteur's own municipality, a mother of three has approached because she becomes homeless. In this connection, she needs a PO Box address, but has been told that then her children are removed, as children must not have a PO Box address. Does the rapporteur consider it reasonable for children to be affected in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193231-2	I do not know the case in question, and that is why I cannot deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193237	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193238	I'm not asking about that case either. I'm actually asking in general because there are a lot of kids... actually 43 500 kids... who are hit by this cash-aid ceiling. Not everyone gets homeless, but a lot of them do. 14,000 kids have to move. So it is not possible to answer the question of how these children are being made homeless.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193303	According to some quite relevant research and studies in this area, there are several different reasons why there are people who are in the situation of becoming homeless or being put on the street, so to speak. It is not necessarily just an economy that is at stake. It can, for example, be done. be divorce, abuse or other social conditions. I'm just saying this because that's actually what the investigations are all about. So it is quite relevant to intervene with that particular argument. In the Danish People's Party, we are pleased with the efforts made, for example. in Helsingør Municipality, where the number of evictions has actually been minimized. So you had to look at that elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193343	The last brief remark I have made in this round is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193349	I really think it is fair enough when legislation has been adopted that if the figures for the people affected by the legislation are greater than what was expected, then we are dealing with it politically. That is what I have been able to hear from the rapporteur that the rapporteur has not wanted to do so until now. I think there seems to be some coincidence in how these reforms affect the municipalities, and I think that is actually a problem of legal certainty. In Aarhus and Copenhagen, citizens who are affected by the cash benefits ceiling can apply for housing allowances to pay the rent. In the municipality of Aalborg, a derogation has been granted so that empty refugee residences can be rented out to other citizens affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, and in Slagelse you can obtain a deposit loan. Then there are municipalities that advise on how citizens can most easily move to a municipality far away, where there may be an opportunity to obtain a cheap accommodation. I would like to ask the rapporteur if it does not make the impression that this is administered so differently in the municipalities, so how does it affect, in this sense, what kind of municipality you live in, and not what kind of legislation has been adopted in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193452	In any case, it can be said that the municipalities really have a responsibility to ensure that they are actually administered in accordance with the rules laid down, and if there are some municipalities that are outside the framework, it is clear that then, as Minister of Employment who sits down here, you have a responsibility to ensure that they are written out to the municipalities or how and how you will take the initiative in establishing contact with the municipalities, but at least as Minister of Employment you have a responsibility to ensure that there is a alignment in relation to the rules which the municipality of course has to administer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193530	We thank Mrs Marlene Harpsøe and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Marlene Harpsøe. Hans Andersen, Left. Sorry, that is quite correct, I did not allow the questioner to have a follow-up. Excuse me, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193548	Thank you. I just have to say that the way in which the 225-hour rule is administered, both in the housing sector and also in the administration of the 225-hour rule, is incredibly different from the way in which the municipalities deal with it. So it is not just a matter of the Minister's responsibility. Some laws have been adopted in this way, but it has to be said that it is completely different how it is administered out there. This means that legal certainty for citizens is, in fact, very bad, because it has not been possible to know in advance how the municipalities would act. Should you move to a municipality where you have the best chance of getting help with your housing expenses?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193625	I can stand by it, as I said the first time I made a comment to Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Then I just want to say again that it is now the case that the ceiling on cash benefits creates an economic incentive to get to work, and the 225-hour rule does so too, and that is positive because there are some who may need this incentive. I have to say that, when I hear the debate, I think there is a certain lack of shoulder flap for those who go to work every day and therefore earn the minimum wage here in Denmark. We are forgetting them a little in this debate, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193705	Then we've gotten through all the questions. We thank Mrs Marlene Harpsøe and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Marlene Harpsøe. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108193715	Thank you. And thank you to Enhedslisten for raising this query debate. This gives us reason to be able to talk about why it is important for work to be worthwhile, because it must always pay to work regardless of the job you are offered. Before the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule, there was no significant economic difference between being on cash benefits and being in work for a relatively low wage. It is not fair that there is hardly any difference between getting up every day, pulling in the work clothes and working a long day at work and then being on passive support. The ceiling on cash benefits, the integration benefit and the 225-hour rule are a showdown. The changes create a more reasonable balance between being at work and being on public support. For example, a single parent with two children has an allowance of DKK 17,600. After the introduction of the ceiling on cash benefits, which we in the Left believe is a reasonable amount. This ensures a reasonable and temporary subsistence for the recipient of cash benefits and for the children of the family. The situation is, of course, that the number of recipients of cash benefits has increased by 23 per cent. Since 2011. Poor integration, that is, the fact that we do not ensure that immigrants get to work, costs society 16 billion. kr. If we do not do better, it will mean increasing costs of poor integration in the years to come. Right now, we are seeing a sharp increase in the number of non-western immigrants among the cash aid recipients, so we are concerned about saying in the Left that there is the 225-hour rule, the cash aid ceiling and the integration benefit ensured that there is an incentive to find a job. The prize is now far greater than before. And there's We have among others. 100,000 people from Eastern Europe who work in Denmark. That's really good. They help keep Denmark going. But I would very much like to see many recipients of cash benefits getting those jobs so that they could support themselves and their families. So, with the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, we are actually ensuring that there is an economic incentive to go to work, and that will also mean that more will do so. They will be able to support themselves and their family, and it has a value that we think is very important. The 225-hour rule ensures that there is an economic incentive to find a job also to find a job of just a few hours' duration and thus to have a link with the labour market. We have not talked much about the integration service today, but it ensures that more refugees are motivated to become part of the working community and that Denmark becomes less attractive to asylum seekers than before. We can be familiar with the level of integration benefit and, as I said, the integration benefit is also supplemented by access to other public services. Then a language bonus is added, so it can be ensured that you also have an incentive to learn Danish when you are here in Denmark. In conclusion, the Left considers that getting a job, going to work is the way we should go. This is the way forward for people on cash benefits; it is the way forward for people on integration benefits. Getting a knowledge of the labour market will also help refugees learn about the Danish culture, have a relationship with Danish colleagues, and it will also help to strengthen their Danish knowledge. So, overall, we find that there has been a need for the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, and we welcome the fact that there is still support for those measures. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194225	The rapporteur is not quite finished yet, because there are a number of brief comments. We'll start with sir. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194231	The question I would like to ask Mr. Hans Andersen, I also tried to put to the Danish People's Party Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, who unfortunately did not show any gaps in ignorance. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Hans Andersen: What is the rapporteur's view of the developments in the figures from the time the bill was put forward to the situation we are today in relation to the people who are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194253	As far as I listened to in the Minister for Employment's speech, it is approx. 33,000 covered by the ceiling on cash benefits in the sense that they receive less in housing support or special support. All people on cash benefits are thus covered by the ceiling; there we are talking about 158,000. So in relation to the cash benefits ceiling, it is 33,000 who can feel it on what they can get in support every month.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194328	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194331	Yes, sir. Hans Andersen right. What was interesting was what the number of people was then the day the bill was put forward and which is also the basis on which the Danish People's Party voted for the bill. There has actually been an increase of 9 000 people, because at that time it was only 24 000, where it is now 33 000, so a dramatic increase in the group of people who are affected by it. In other words, the basis of the draft law has been completely upset compared to when it was put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194358	I do not share that view, because there is a difference between people affected and people who are full-time. And what the bill said was that it would affect 24,000 full-time people. It then affects approx. 33,000 people I think that, with the conditions we have laid down for the legal procedure, we are hitting fairly close to what we assumed when we had the treatment in the spring. So I think we have been very open and honest about the consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194437	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194440	Throughout this process, we have often asked the Left Ministers whether these people, under the ceiling of cash aid, will be poorer or will be able to fend for themselves financially. The Minister for Employment said on 11 March: it is therefore my clear assessment that if you have regular rents and make the necessary priorities in the household budget, you can make things stick together and stay here. On 17 October, the Minister for Housing said the following: You have had time to prepare for the ceiling of cash benefits, and you have had time to look around for a new accommodation that is cheaper. So one says you can afford to stay, the other says you don't. I just have to ask the rapporteur which of the two ministers is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194520	I think that both ministers respond very well to the questions that have been asked. If you as a single parent on cash benefits with two children have 17,600 kroner, I think you can afford to pay a rent. But there may be cases where you have set yourself very dearly. If you are on cash benefits and you continue to expect to be so, then it is very reasonable to look for a cheaper accommodation if you find that the accommodation you are sitting in today is not affordable. But all people have to. It is not just the recipients of cash benefits who have to ensure that they can afford to sit in the accommodation in which they sit. Everyone has to make sure of that. It is therefore very sensible to do so if you can see that you cannot pay the rent after the turn of the year.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194612	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194614	The cheap housing which will then have to be found suggests Copenhagen municipalities to be found in the outlying areas, in those areas where there is no work to be done. How is it, as the Left says, that they have done all this because it has to be worthwhile to work and because you have to be able to get started, along with forcing some out where there is no work? Can't you hear that it's a little weird?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194639	I certainly think that you should stay in the metropolitan area if you are currently on cash benefits and covered by the ceiling on cash benefits. There are approx. 150,000 homes in the metropolitan area, which you have to pay less than 5,000 DKK. a month in advance. So these homes are here in the metropolitan area. In fact, there are 500,000 at national level for a rent fee below 5,000 DKK. a month. So they exist, and that is why I would recommend that you stay here in the metropolitan area. There's a lot of jobs there, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194718	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194721	Thank you. First of all, I would like the rapporteur to confirm that there are some people living in those 150,000 low-cost homes. Then I would like to arrest what the rapporteur said about the fact that before the ceiling was introduced there was too little difference. Does the rapporteur actually know what the difference is between cash aid and the financial gain that can be gained by getting a 37-hour job at HK's minimum wage in retail trade?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194753	Yes, before the cash benefits ceiling there was a difference of approx. 700 kr. to be covered by obtaining cash benefits and to get a job at HK's minimum wage of about DKK 18,000, and we have now ensured that there is a noticeable gain. Well, we're talking about a prize of 3,000 to 4,000 kroner. by taking the job in question. That is what we think is necessary to ensure that work is always worthwhile.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194820	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194822	Now I asked the rapporteur what the financial gain was all about, and the rapporteur does not know that, or the rapporteur does not want to deal with it very much. But then I have to tell the rapporteur. If you take a job at HK's minimum wage of 37 hours and you include the financial gains you have from being on the contract: pension, free choice scheme, holiday holidays and holiday money, then you reach a monthly salary of 22.476 DKK. By comparison, the cash benefits for a single person are, I think, the rapporteur at DKK 10.968. This gives a difference • a gain of approx. 11,000 kroner. For a breadwinner, the cash benefits are approx. 14,500 kroner, so there's a prize of over 7,000 kroner. Can the rapporteur confirm this and then can we stop talking about the fact that working is not worthwhile?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194916	I relate to the fact that if you are on cash benefits and you are offered a job in a store at Strøget, you can initially get approx. 18,000 kroner. a month. That is what is in the hands of a great many people, and I say that the prize has been far too small. It has been DKK 700 before you have had to relate to the fact that you also had to pay transport costs to go to work. And there we have now ensured with the ceiling that we are talking about a gain of several thousand kroner by taking a job, and that is very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194949	Then it's Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108194953	Thank you. I hear the rapporteur says that there is work to be done. But it may be a bit like with the homes where some people already live, i.e. those jobs may also be occupied. In any case, the situation is that in Odense there are 16,079 unemployed who have received a letter that they are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. At the same time, the assessment is that in Odense there are 20 to 40 jobs within e.g. transport and telemarketing, where the average working time is 10-15 hours per week. So there are 16,079 unemployed for 20 to 40 jobs in Odense. Is that also the impression that the rapporteur has?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195057	In other words, with the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, we have ensured that there is an economic incentive to take a job. Then I have already informed you that today there are 225 000 jobs with a weekly working time of less than 15 hours, and there are actually people working on the labour market. There are people today who may move up to a full-time job after having had a job of less duration for a period of time. That is why there are jobs to be obtained, and I can also say that 100,000 Eastern Europeans have actually discovered that there are jobs to be obtained in Denmark. So, of course, there are also jobs to be obtained for those benefit recipients who can now also see that there is an economic incentive to take them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195143	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195145	Well, now the question wasn't really answered. Is it because the rapporteur believes that the figures I have are not correct? For there are 16,079 unemployed in Odense who have received a letter stating that they have been affected per year. October 1st, and it is 20 to 40 jobs that a department manager in Business Services assesses there is in Odense. The City of Odense is a student town, where many students also have a job...
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195223	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195226	Well, it is fine that the rapporteur can read out some figures about what is currently happening in Odense municipality with the number of people on cash benefits. I note that there is a job to be obtained, and now we are making sure that there is a gain by taking those jobs, and I am quite sure that has also been the case for the recipients of cash benefits in Odense Municipality. In fact, we hear a lot of good examples that now, on the basis of the fact that there is a ceiling on cash benefits and a 225-hour rule, you take the jobs, and that is really good. That's the way we're going.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195259	Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195300	Then I would like to continue down that path, because if it is now so easy to get work, as the rapporteur says, and that there are hundreds of thousands of jobs out there, how can it be that the job centres have not long since got all the recipients of cash benefits into work? What could the background be for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195327	There's definitely a job to get. Now I mentioned the number of jobs that had a duration of less than 15 hours a week, but we have to note that there are 750,000 job openings every year in Denmark. There is really good mobility in the labour market, and that opens a lot of doors, including for people on cash benefits. And then I see that the job centres themselves are now out to say: okay, we can also communicate jobs in 8 hours and 15 hours. It also makes sense for some people, and it is really good that they also look that way and not only look at full-time positions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195407	It should be natural, then, that these thousands of people, some twenty thousand or how many of them we are talking about here, receive a letter that they are being hit by the ceiling on cash benefits, and at the same time receive a letter from the job centre saying that they are being assigned a job by the way. That would be natural in this situation. Can the rapporteur mention one? Because I don't believe that. The reality isn't like that. The next thing you're gonna get hit is you can't afford to live in your apartment anymore. And there it could be really interesting if it were so that on the outskirts of Denmark, where you have moved, where there are cheap housing, there was also a job to get. But that is not the reality. It's just a statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195449	But the basic issue is, of course, what the level should be when you are on public support. We have ensured that it is always worthwhile to go to work, and I have therefore become in doubt there. I have to say that the Socialists are not going to say anything today about this ceiling on cash benefits. Should it be rolled back, or should it not be rolled back? I am glad that with the ceiling on cash benefits we ensure that working is always worthwhile. This is a good foundation for getting more cash aid recipients to work now too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195523	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195525	Thank you. I have read the motion for a resolution which, among other things, has been adopted. The rapporteur is in favour, and it says that there is a fine balance. I see no fine balance, at least not between incentives and so many jobs. When there are up to 400 cash benefits recipients per year. part-time work, there is no balance anymore. Why is it so difficult for citizens and politicians to tell employers that they should then just say: first, take those who have gone the longest. Longest available, first at work. It's a good old principle we had when I was young. You could just do that, because there is nothing revolutionary about that when there are plenty of job openings, because then you can do it. If that is true, what the rapporteur says, why not introduce a duty to employers and a duty to local authorities to provide those jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195620	I think we should stick to the fact that it is not up to us here in the Danish Parliament to decide who the individual owner should hire. I think we are better off with business owners doing what they do and concentrating on legislation overall. I do not think that anyone, including the recipients of cash benefits, has any merit or sees a scam about the fact that we are taking over the recruitment talks in the individual companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195651	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195653	Nor do we need that, because there are 33,000 to choose from, so there is plenty to choose from and there is free choice on all shelves. Why is this so difficult, and why are bourgeois politicians so hypocritical when they talk about duty? There is no problem in giving duties to the unemployed or to the recipients of cash benefits, but there are incredibly big problems in just giving a tiny obligation to an employer and a tiny obligation to a municipality. This is hypocrisy; it has nothing to do with reality if you do not want to make sure that they get near those places, helping them near them. What is the difference between competitive society and the welfare society is that we help the weakest.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195728	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195730	We certainly help people with cash benefits. We have just entered into a pool agreement in which we sort of address the cash benefits recipients who have spent more than five years on cash benefits and who had been forgotten at a time when Enhedslisten has been parliamentary support for a social democratic government. There have been many, many thousands of cash aid recipients now for years. But now we're gonna grab hold of them and we're gonna help them. We're making a difference now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195800	Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195803	Thank you. After all, it is strange to hear the rapporteur tell us about all of these homes which cost less than a certain amount, knowing that they are occupied, but even if they really became vacant, there are long waiting lists. I am sure the rapporteur knows this from his own municipality. It's like in many other metropolitan municipalities where it's not easy to get into one of these cheap homes. Let's bury that part of it and then try to look at what this cash aid ceiling really does. Because if you go to Glostrup Municipality, where the rapporteur's party partner is mayor, you see that they have a system and a procedure in which they encourage people to move to Lolland and Falster and West Zealand and other parts of the country. What is actually the rapporteur's message to the people living in rural areas and to the local people in rural areas who can see that the Left in here at Christiansborg votes through a cash aid ceiling, knowing that it hits a whole lot of citizens and then you have a Left Mayor in Glostrup who then says to them: Well, if you can't live where you live now, you must move to Lolland and Falster and elsewhere? What is the rapporteur's message? What's he gonna say to the people who are having a hard time getting things together down there?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195912	Now I would just like to urge the questioner to keep up. This is not a statement from Glostrup Municipality that can be confirmed. So if the questioner were to follow the situation and debate in the field of employment, he would know that it is not the policy of Glostrup Municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195935	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108195937	Well, it's funny, because there's an article in Lolland-Falster's Folketidende on October 14 this year, where Glostrup Municipality's responsible for this area says that if people can't afford to live in their homes, you have to encourage them to move to Lolland. So if that is not the policy, and if that is not the way to do it in Glostrup Municipality, where the Left rules, just as they control in here with regard to the cash aid ceiling, why does the responsible official sit and tell the newspaper? And what is it if I can get an answer to the rapporteur's message to the good people of Lolland-Falster who are now accepting many of those who are affected by the cash benefits ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200010	We just need to agree that it is not the policy of Glostrup Municipality. It has been reported from the highest place in Glostrup Municipality. So that's not politics. I don't like it either. I think that every municipality should ensure that the cash aid recipients that you have are helped in work. That is what this task is all about. This will ensure that you can also support yourself and yours, and that is what it is all about, so to ensure that there is a difference between being on public support and going to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200041	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200044	Thank you. Now, in his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur mentioned many times the word 'incitement', as did the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in the past, so that incentives are now being created for people to take up work. I would then like the rapporteur to agree to the idea experiment that those who are job seekers today actually have the reality today that the citizens who have it are being put into business practice. They must be available for the labour market, they must be tried, and many of them find themselves in a business practice that never leads to ordinary employment because they simply go and work for free in a business practice. The rapporteur says that if that job guarantee is to be concrete, can the rapporteur guarantee that the cash benefit recipients who are currently in business practice follow normal employment after they can get a job when they want to? Otherwise, it makes no sense to talk about creating a greater incentive by punishing them with less in cash benefits. Can the rapporteur give that job guarantee?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200150	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200151	In the Left, we are concerned that there must be a noticeable difference between being on public support and being in work. That is simply the prerequisite for us to continue to have a well-functioning society where there are people standing up in the morning and earning some money and contributing to society. After all, it is a question of company practice in private companies being a very good tool. The statistics show that this kind of thing happens in jobs. This brings us into the labour market to a much greater extent than if we get into public pay subsidies jobs, or if we move around in various activation projects, so it is all about getting into business practice. This is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200240	Well, that's really nice. But if that is the case and if it is so easy, I would like to know whether the rapporteur will help to guarantee that those people who are in business practice today and who are actually doing ordinary work just without getting an ordinary salary for it will then get a permanent appointment in those companies. Because if it is so easy and if you can just issue this job guarantee and say that there is a lot of work, then the obvious place to start would be to say that the companies that have people in business practice can guarantee them that they have an ordinary job in the same place afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200311	Now I am well aware that Enhedslisten would like to take over the role of employers today in today's Denmark. I understand that, but I don't want that. I can only note that if you get into business practice, i.e. if you get into wage subsidies jobs in private companies, then it actually leads to a lot, much closer to the labour market, and also to you getting into jobs from it. That's the way we're going.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200337	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200339	Now it is good that there is a network connection here in the Danish Parliament, so you can go in and google what is happening in Glostrup and what Left Social Committee chairman Lars Thomsen has said to local media. It is clear that what Glostrup Municipality is doing, whose citizens are looking for help, a good advice, is to say that if they cannot get a job in Glostrup, then good advice is that they are trying to find a place with lower rent. The same article shows that social workers in other municipalities have registered that the advice given in Glostrup is to move to another municipality. That's kind of part of the picture. It has to be said that it is extremely different how municipalities deal with this. It goes from some municipalities that help citizens pay their rent or help with a deposit, and to municipalities such as Glostrup, which recommends that the unemployed move to another municipality, where it is only necessary to note that it is even harder to find a job. Does the rapporteur think that what is going on in Glostrup is reasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200446	I am absolutely convinced that in Glostrup they are also concerned about getting cash benefits recipients to work. That's what they're working on. And then it is all about ensuring that whether it is in Glostrup or Copenhagen or elsewhere in the metropolitan area, it is people who are going to work. The municipalities are getting help now, because now we are ensuring that there is actually a difference between being on public support and taking a job. It's kind of a helping hand. Then they can use the other tools that are. That's right. Some municipalities create a small job market for mini-jobs so that they can help people to get even closer to the labour market with jobs of perhaps 8 or 10 hours to a start. That is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200533	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200535	You can start talking about jobs and so on. It has to be said that in the area of housing, the municipalities handle it very differently. I think it is a problem of legal certainty that some laws have been passed in the Folketing, whose coinage in the municipalities is so different that the legal status of cash benefit recipients is much lower than that of other citizens, such as the United Kingdom. has a job. I think that is totally unfair. I think it is totally unfair if the reference to how it is handled in Glostrup is correct. I would like to hear again whether it would not be better to help those citizens stay in the municipality rather than help them move to a municipality where there are no jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200611	All municipalities, as it were, already have an obligation to help citizens who are at risk of being evicted from their homes. And it is whether they are on cash benefits or some other benefit, or they cannot find out how to pay their rent, for example because they have an abuse or mental illness. Already today, the municipalities are obliged to help the citizens. I know they already do. There are actually municipalities that are really good at this. Elsinore Municipality is actually very good at it, although you can say that it is not always easy to handle. However, I believe that the municipalities are capable of doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200650	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108200715	Thank you. The level of cash benefits is something we decide in this Parliament, but when you listen to the debate, you sometimes get the impression that it is something that has failed from the sky that it is not up to discussion, but that is not the case. The money we spend on cash benefits can't be spent on other things. In Denmark we have the world's highest level of cash assistance. Also, when you correct that prices can be higher in Denmark than they are in other countries, we still have the highest level. It is actually significantly higher than it is in our neighbouring countries. Before the social security ceiling, a single person with two children had 60%. more purchasing power • 60%. more than a single person with two children in Sweden. A couple with two children had 61 percent. more purchasing power than a couple on cash assistance with two children in Sweden. After the ceiling on cash benefits, purchasing power will be slightly lower, but it will still be high compared to the purchasing power of all our neighbouring countries. We think it is quite reasonable to save some money here to spend it on lower taxes, and that is what has been agreed. So what's the level? What is actually being paid out? What do you have to live for when you are a cash benefit recipient in Denmark after this cash benefits ceiling? A single help recipient with one child will have DKK 14,500. paid out. With two children you will get 17,600 kroner. A single help recipient with three children will receive DKK 20,300. paid out. And depending on which municipality you live in, it can be a few hundred crowns lower or a few hundred crowns higher, but that's the level we're talking about. Can we be familiar? I think so. In fact, I think that some of the amounts are too high. When you look at what couples on cash benefits have after the ceiling, you can see that it will still be so that there will be a small difference between being on cash benefits and being in work. But the result is that we are going to get a level that is still the highest in the world and where there is a difference, a slightly greater difference when you take a job to the minimum wages that the social partners have agreed to, and that is actually a good principle. It cannot be the case that, on the one hand, we say that in Denmark it is the social partners who decide what the salary should be, we do not interfere with that, and on the other hand we do it anyway and say: Well it may well be that you have found a level, but we think you should have the same when you are on cash benefits. We do not think that is sensible. And that's the principle that's being upheld with this cash aid ceiling. The starting point is that you can get no more than 80%. net in relation to the situation of working on the minimum wages agreed by the social partners. Then I think there is a lot of hypocrisy on the part of the Social Democrats in this debate. With the 2013 cash benefits reform, which is also behind the SF and the Radical Left, some benefits were agreed for some of these groups, which are considerably lower. For example: is the case that a couple on cash benefits under 30 years of age with one child will have 17,800 DKK. To live for. A couple with two children will have 18,800 kroner. To live for. The Social Democratic Party therefore considered this to be a reasonable level and it considered that the Radical Left was a reasonable level and it considered that SF was a reasonable level. We made a deal about that. If you are then over 30 years old and on cash benefits, if you are a couple with one child, you have 22,300 DKK. paid out. A couple with two children have just over 23,000 kroner. paid out. So that's about 5,000 kroner. more paid out per month than if you are under 30 years of age. And that is what the Social Democrats and the SF and the Radical Left think is now a major disaster. This is incomprehensible to me. With this ceiling on cash benefits, we've got a little more fairness in the benefits. The revenue we use for lower taxes. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201238	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201238-2	Thank you. No matter how many figures the rapporteur heaps up • some of them are right, others are misleading because one just forgets to tell what the prerequisite for them is, but let it be • no matter how many comparisons with other countries' level of cash assistance he makes, the consequence of the legislation that has been made is that a lot of people are forced out of their homes. So I just ask the rapporteur: why should it bring these people closer to the labour market that they are forced out of their homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201321-2	Well, I'm not buying the premise, so it should be true that a lot of people are being forced out of their homes. If you as a single mother, with two children, on cash benefits has 17,600 kroner, then there is money for an apartment. Is there money for an apartment for 12,000 kroner?? No, there is not, I fully acknowledge that, but it cannot be right to be able to live in an apartment of 10,000 or 12,000 kroner. There are many apartments for a lower rent than that. And if it is the case that in the general housing sector housing is built so expensive that you cannot afford to live in them with the amounts available, then there is a problem. However, the fact is that in Denmark there are housing • many dwellings • for a rent that means you can afford to stay with the amounts paid on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201425	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201426	Yes, there is just the small problem that there are already some people living in those homes and that there are all-long waiting lists to get into the places where the cheap housing is. But that's not what I asked. After all, the rapporteur acknowledges that this ceiling on cash benefits will mean that some recipients of cash benefits will be forced out of their homes because, in the rapporteur's view, they live in too expensive an apartment. So thank you for the recognition of that premise. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: why should it help those people in the labour market? Why would it give them a job to have to move out of their homes? That's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201504	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201505	After all, all people have to give priority, and we also think it is a reasonable requirement to do so when you are on cash benefits. I fully acknowledge that when you are on cash benefits, it may be that you cannot afford to live in a home for 10,000 kroner. a month, it may be true, but there are other accommodations. The rapporteur makes it sound as if it is such a completely frozen housing market, we have that there is no dynamism, that people do not move out and others move in, but that is the way it is in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201538	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201541	I suppose we can agree that there is a difference between the rapporteur's approach and my approach to this problem. The rapporteur basically does not care if the recipients of cash benefits find a job. What this is about is pushing them down in pay, so they're hungry enough. It was about this last period when we were talking about cash benefits. As long as they can get far enough down, they'll have to find out for themselves. The rapporteur asked if we could be familiar with this. Then he says: Yes, we can. He'll have to model on that. I certainly do not think that we can be familiar with living in a society where we cannot guarantee these people access to the alleged many job vacancies. What does the rapporteur do besides whip these people? He does nothing to facilitate access to the many thousands of jobs we hear about and job change openings, and what do I know about nothing. He has not committed one employer to anything; he has not committed one municipality to anything. When are they gonna have a little duty to help these people into all these alleged jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201638	Well, that's so classic, isn't it, sir? Christian Juhl rhetoric that the rest of us don't care about cash aid recipients, that we whip people. It's a fantastic rhetoric. I believe that politicians should be judged on the consequences of their policy, not on their intentions. The truth is that we have created a society in which hundreds of thousands of people are outside the labour market, and I do not think that is worthy of a life of transfer income. If you are so blind to the fact that the level of transfer income in Denmark, which is very, very high, has not contributed to the society where real, very many people are outside the labour market, with what it involves the higher risk of social problems etc., then you have not understood much of the mechanisms that work out in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201739	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201742	That is exactly what I was trying to ask the rapporteur. When does the rapporteur just start to find one job in each municipality and oblige one employer or one municipality to open the door that the cash benefit recipient can walk in when he or she wants the job? Now we've fixed all the ugly stuff about cutting down enormously, so the incentive, as it is so nicely called, is all right. I'm just trying to describe the reality to some people, like Mr. Simpson. Joachim B. Olsen may not be meeting, and that is what this is all about. It is not worthy not to show them where the jobs are, and it is not worthy not to do those jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201817	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201820	We do not live in a communist society. I'm sorry, sir. Christian Juhl maybe. We live in a market economy, and that is how we do not have job guarantees. What we agree here is that we ensure a level, that we decide what the level should be on cash benefits and what it is you should have. In the real world, the vast majority of people find jobs completely bypassing the job centres. I think it's 97-98 percent that finds a job without it. It is a dynamic labour market that we have. There are 800,000 job openings a year. It is not the case that it is a frozen market. People find work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201902	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108201903	Thank you. Yes, I actually experienced that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen said something that I fully agree with. That is very surprising, but nevertheless it is true. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen said that politicians must be judged on the consequences and not on the intentions. The intense with this is after what I can listen to, Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen that people should be helped out of passive support and into employment instead. Then I'll have to get to where mr. Finn Sørensen escaped before, because the consequence is that there are up to 14 000 people who are at risk of being evicted from their homes. So I just have to ask again: what is it that makes the people who are put out of their homes more likely to be able to enter the ordinary labour market? We are not talking about whether it is reasonable for them to have the housing we are talking about the consequences of this legislation here. The consequence is that they risk losing their homes. How does this bring them closer to the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202004	No, but that has not been the consequence of that legislation. It is not the case that 14 000 have been evicted. It is such an argument that has been put forward, a scaremongering argument, that this can happen here, but it has not happened, and it is not going to happen either. There are, among other things: the fact that the municipalities naturally have a responsibility for those who have social problems and may find it difficult to control their finances. The municipalities today have an opportunity to go in and say: We pay the rent before we pay out the rest of the cash benefits. Such responsibilities should be borne by the municipalities for those who have social problems. But that is not true when the rapporteur says that this is going to happen. That is not correct. The rapporteur knows nothing about this. I don't think that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202050	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202051	Well, that's excellent. We can only note that there are now beginning to be letters in the mailboxes of people who cannot afford to pay their rent. But then I'd like to hear sir. Joachim B. Olsen: Since it is not at all the intention that people should be put out of their homes, and we must be judged on the consequences, can Joachim B. Olsen help to guarantee that these people are not put out of their homes and they are instead brought closer to the labour market? Can Joachim B. Olsen help to guarantee that the municipalities have the opportunity to ensure that these people can stay in their homes so that we do not have unintended consequences of this legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202125	The questioner should remember the little sir. Here you go, sir. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202128	To this with intentions: The intention to have the world's highest transfer income has been really, really good, that is, that no human being, even in the shortest period, should suffer any kind of distress. But what have the consequences been? It has been and is a society in which a very, very large proportion of citizens of working age are on transfer income. It wasn't meant to be, it wasn't intended, but that's what happened. We have to deal with that. I am concerned about the consequences, and the consequences of this are that it will increase the departure from cash benefits to employment. This will mean that some people will not be dragged further into the system and may eventually end up with early retirement. That's what I'm aiming for.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202214	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202216	Unfortunately, when it is always worthwhile to work, there are also wages that are so low that it may mean that some people end up on a regular starvation wage. However, I would like to challenge the talmagic which I think I am listening to from the rapporteur in relation to how much money is now actually being made if you are in work, or if you are in cash, or if you are in cash. If a social and health worker is newly trained, he earns DKK 22,000. gross per month exclusive supplements and whatever else you can get, when it is the case that you are still free in a job, while a cash benefit recipient receives DKK 14,000. a month. If they are both single mothers with two children, they are receiving child benefit, they are receiving exceptional family allowances, they are receiving rent subsidies, and they are receiving subsidies for kindergarten, will the rapporteur explain to me what the difference is between the income of the two people?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202321	But I can't do that in my head. Then I should have had the question in advance so that I could have prepared for it. What I can at least say is that the SOSU worker, among other things, is one of them. Pays 8 per cent. In labour market contributions it reduces the difference. But if you have 22,000 kroner. In terms of salary, there will be a difference. But that is not what we have started from. We have taken as our starting point the minimum wages that are on the labour market today, because that is where we choose to make the cut. We are making the cut in relation to the wages, minimum wages agreed by the social partners. If it is the rapporteur's view that the Danish trade union movement has been so poor in securing decent minimum wages, which would be surprising to me, then the rapporteur must be at the forefront of this to the trade union movement, but I do not think so. In other words, wages in the labour market reflect what individual job functions can now bear on wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202420	Interesting answer. Perhaps we can talk about this in the 2019 collective bargaining process. I am just helping the rapporteur because the difference between 22 000 and 14 000 is DKK 8 000. in gross earnings. If you pull the 8 percent. labour market contributions from, there is still a difference of DKK 6,000. The other supplements are the same. What's the difference between the two salaries?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202446	It is strange to ask me to answer such a question on the floor of the Danish Parliament, which is very strange. I can't stand here making calculations in one minute, that doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202502	I would like to thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked for short remarks, and that is why we are going to go further in the rapporteur's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108202527	Thank you. This question debate is about the human and social consequences of the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, i.e. poverty benefits. And I think there are many of those consequences. We have all heard that it has been calculated that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule send 7 000 children below the poverty line. We have also heard that emergency aid organisations are concerned that for the first time in Denmark, whole families will be seen on the streets. In addition, there are some mental factors that come into force when creating a rhetoric that indicates that you want to force people into work. It is a rhetoric that kicks down in society, a rhetoric that makes it look as if unemployment is the fault of the unemployed and that unemployment is because people do not want to work. At the same time, we believe that it speaks to the lowest common denominator, because the words about being able to pay for work can be a signal to the low-paid that it is not so bad to be low-paid, because there are some who feel even worse. Fortunately, I do not think the Danes think that way. However, when we look at some of the major studies, there is little evidence that the effects of putting people into cash benefits are particularly good. The Rockwool Foundation's evaluation of cash benefits over the last 25 years concludes that there is little evidence to say that lower cash benefits will get cash benefits recipients into work. In the alternative, we are sure that the Rockwool Foundation is right in that evaluation. People want to work in advance. It's the jobs that are missing. In 2008 there was almost full employment in Denmark; we were down to 1.9% unemployment. It is below the 3%, as my social science teacher in high school said there will always be and which he called natural unemployment. And he said it would be because of job changes, illness, etc. There he taught us at the Marselisborg Gymnasium in Aarhus that unemployment will never fall below 3%. In 2009, that science had to be rewritten, because then it was down to 1.9 percent. I myself worked at that time, among other things. with qualifying Somalis to get to work at the ISS, and it went fantastic. If the boom had continued, we would have come even further down. And then the government comes and says that people do not want to work and that financial incentives are needed. The problem is that there isn't enough work for everyone. I mean, unemployment exists. It means, of course, that no matter how much you lower people's cash benefits, it is not all of them who get to work, because there is not enough work. This means that many of the people we put down in help can't get jobs they just get poorer. In relation to the impact, last year a large Norwegian study measuring unemployment in 18 countries came. It shows that the desire for work is greatest in those countries with the highest welfare benefits. We think it is because there is a social impoverishment that brings people further away from the labour market when you lower people's cash benefits. So it is no secret that the alternative is against poverty benefits. We have funded a total roll-back of poverty benefits in our draft budget that we have presented here recently. We simply believe that the human cost of these poverty benefits will be so high in health, justice in the form of transfer income that derived expenditure will be higher than what poverty benefits will ever earn. Having criticised poverty benefits so much now, I would like to conclude by saying briefly how we want to get people into work in the Community instead. In the alternative, we would like to share the work, we would like to reduce working hours. And it is wonderful that there are more and more examples of this being possible. Yesterday there was an example in Berlingske Business. A Danish company called Translated By Us has introduced 30-hour working week because it creates higher productivity," says the manager. He says: This is a liberal, cool management assessment, it's not a hippie experiment, but it creates higher productivity. The same development takes place in Sweden, in England, and I think it shows that there is a world that is changing towards us starting to share the work and thus letting the unemployed into the heat. At the same time, more experience suggests that coercion and control are replaced by trust rather than financial incentives.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203051	Thank you. There is one question from Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203054	Thank you. I just want to hear the alternative, how much more a single parent with two children, who today have 17,600 kroner. In order for the alternative to be a reasonable amount, a monthly payment must be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203121	We would like to roll the cash benefits ceiling back to the original rates.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203125	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203129	Then I have to understand that it will mean that it will no longer be worthwhile to go to work, that is to say to take a job at DKK 18 000. a month. Is the alternative of the view that economic incentives do not work when it comes to getting people into work?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203153	The alternative view is that economic incentives are much less effective than trust. In Kalundborg, an attempt has been made to end the coercion, control has been lifted, and what is happening is that there are on average more people working there than in the rest of the country and that 65%. is in activation against some 30 percent in the national average. So when you give people back their lives and the authority over their own lives, they will sign up to join the community and apply to the working community.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203223	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203225	The alternative would like to reduce working hours. When you ask the alternative how they will do it, the alternative says that it is something you have to agree on in the labour market, they will not interfere with that. In other words, that is not politics, what you say in terms of reducing working hours is not politics. In here we legislate, that's what we do in the Folketing. So when you come and say that you want to reduce working time, but that you do not want to legislate on it, it is not politics. It's a bluff, it's hot air. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203302	Well, sir has. Joachim B. Olsen is entitled to mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203306	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203311	Okay. I would like everyone in Denmark to have a Mercedes, I would like that. If you ask me how I'm gonna make sure everyone gets a Mercedes, I'm gonna tell you I'm not gonna do anything about that, I just want that. It is not politics; it is not politics, for Christ's sake. Well, be a little serious. Will you legislate to reduce working hours, or is it the social partners who will have to negotiate a reduction in working hours? If it is the latter, it has nothing to do with politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203344	This should not be the first time that politicians have inspired the social partners, who are indeed the ones who have to negotiate this. It is absolutely true that it is the social partners who have to negotiate this. In the past, however, the social partners, with strong inspiration from politicians, have succeeded in reducing working hours considerably, and the disaster remained unsatisfied.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203406	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203421	Thank you, President. It has been a long debate. In the Radical Left I think it is quite clear that we do not want poverty benefits in Denmark. We must help people into the labour market, we must not push them into poverty. Poverty benefits marginalise vulnerable families and the consequence is that some children will grow up in poverty. In the Radical Left we also want a great many more Danes to get to work. For the best thing for children's upbringing is that their parents can support themselves and support them. And the worst thing for children's upbringing is growing up in poverty. But it is also the case that you cannot choose to be on cash benefits. And you can't choose to be on integration It is simply forbidden, they must not work and then they come to integration benefits. It is our safety net in Denmark that provides cash assistance, and it is very important for us in the Radical Left that we have that safety net. That is what, in this way, with the ceiling on benefits, in our opinion, is cutting a gap, and the most important thing for us in the Radical Left is that it will lead to more children growing up in poverty. That is why we are so opposed to introducing these poverty benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203640	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has brief comments. Yes, there was one, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203644	Does the rapporteur think that you are poor if you are paid 17,600 kroner as a single mother on cash benefits with two children??
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203701	What concerns me seems to me to have made me quite clear here, because I have not answered the rapporteur at all, and the rapporteur has asked the question many times this evening by saying that it is not the actual amount that matters to me. What matters to me is what we want to achieve. We want to get more people into work. I don't have a specific need for someone to be punished. Are there people on cash benefits who might be able to work? I guess so. So what's the job? Is that a choice? If you are ready to work, can you choose to say: I don't want to work, I'd rather be on cash benefits? You can't do that. We haven't screwed up our laws like that. The consequence is that more children become poor, and that is what we are concerned with.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203759	The rapporteur said 'poverty benefits'. A benefit is an amount. It's money you get. When I ask the rapporteur whether one is poor when one is affected by the ceiling on cash benefits and gets DKK 17 600. As a single mother, the rapporteur cannot answer whether the benefit of the poverty benefit, as the rapporteur said, is an expression of poverty. According to the previous government's own definition, you're not poor on this service. What the rapporteur is saying on the floor is simply not rigorous. It's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203840-2	I think it is absolutely coherent, because what it is all about is all these benefits. Then you can discuss individual amounts • whether individual amounts are much or little to have to do well with. In fact, you have to relate to that a little bit nuanced. This is all in relation to what an ordinary family has in Denmark, what a single mother has to do well with. This isn't just about the cash benefits themselves. It is about the fact that the benefits that have been set aside are all those that all other families of children in Denmark receive. This means marginalising them, and for many of these benefits it means, because the figures in the government's own answers show that there will be more people and children in poverty as a result of the introduction of these benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203931	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108203934	Thank you. I feel obliged to thank the rapporteur for a strong rapporteur's speech and for some strong answers to Mr Tugendhat's question. Joachim B. Olsen, and in particular for the part of the answers which is concerned with emphasising that you cannot choose to be on cash benefits and that you cannot choose to be on integration benefits either, but also for emphasising that the special benefits provided to single parents on cash benefits are some benefits to which other people, low-paid, are also entitled. So a big thank you for that. Then, of course, we have a special situation in the opposition, because we are four parties that have clearly said that we will abolish these poverty benefits when we get a majority in favour of it. Unfortunately, we could not agree on a wording for adoption, but I have no doubt that the rapporteur believes what the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party have said. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur have any idea how we can arrive at a situation where it is a united opposition that promises the voters that we will light the light in the dark that, after an election, we will abolish these poverty benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204041	I am pleased that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten can hear that in my party we mean it when we say that we want to abolish poverty benefits. We have also presented an economic plan in which we roll back all the poverty benefits and have financed it. When we have different proposals here for adoption on this, I think it is about the fact that we do not have the same policy in the Enhedslisten and in the Radical Left, and well the same thing. Then we have a discussion about it. We have neither the same economic policy nor any other policy. I am absolutely convinced that we can abolish and roll back these poverty benefits. We have agreed on this in the past across these parties, and we will be doing so again. In the Radical Left, we will do everything we can to ensure that it becomes a reality if or when a majority changes and there are 90 mandates behind that wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204143	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204144	Thank you. I choose to believe that, too. Otherwise, it doesn't make much sense to be in politics if you don't believe that you can change things. However, we have the special situation in which all parties in the opposition criticise and reject the legislation we are talking about here today, but only the four parties, if I may say so, have the courage to promise the electorate that we will abolish it again. So my question is because I do not have the good idea myself, if I had it, I would have used it: does the rapporteur have any idea how we can come to a situation where it is an overall opposition that promises it to the electorate?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204224	Well, I actually understand that you don't promise things you don't have 90 seats for. I and my party say very clearly, quite clearly: we will abolish poverty benefits if we find 90 mandates for it after an election. That is a clear priority. That is why we have financed it in our own presentations. After all, this can only be encouraged for all other parties to submit funding proposals, to present plans that show that you mean it when you want to abolish these poverty benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204304	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204319	Then we take it again, that is to say the debate, one might be tempted to say, but every time one has to try to knock some social understanding into the right-wing side of Sisyfos is my cover name. What is the reason for kicking and bruises on people who already have the least? Is it to get more people to work? Yes, the right wing sometimes claims that, but as you can clearly see from them, they do not really believe in it themselves, nor do they have any reason to do so. 33.127 people have now reduced their housing support or other special support. 7,000 children are affected by it. So many people need to be bothered to increase the workforce by up to 700 people. Not jobs, not people at work, but an increase in the labour force, which may increase by up to 700 people. Here we sit again in our warmly privileged politician world, where the right wing will hunt around with people out in the icy social reality. In fine words, they say that economic incentives cause people to move, but that presupposes that these people are actually able to move. If you get a push, most of us will be able to step aside. But if you are stuck, a push will unfortunately just mean that some people fall over. Those people who are sick, disabled or who are trapped in a precarious social situation will often not be able to move through the so-called economic incentives here. Therefore, there is virtually no job effect of the new lower benefits. Lower benefits, on the other hand, will certainly put pressure on the minimum wage, and when the lowest wages are down, you can start again by pushing social benefits down further. They simply cannot wipe their laughing off in the employers' associations. There they sit and lick their mouths with the prospect of a pay and benefit-related death spiral. The right wing kicks and gives bruises to those who have the least, and at a forthcoming election • and then let it come as soon as possible • the voters can as appropriately sign by giving the right wing a serious voice Olfert and giving us a government that, in turn, removes the low-ceiling cash backlash.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204614	We thank the rapporteur. There was just a last minute request for a brief comment from Marlene Harpsøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204619	What does the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party say about the Social Democratic Party, which in the SF is described as its good neighbour? We heard that at least in the past we will not promise to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits? Of course, it was also noted by some of us in the various parties that the proposal for adoption presented today from among others. SF's side doesn't include Social Democracy. So what is it said by the SF that the Social Democratic Party will not even promise to abolish the cash aid ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204702	That's what we think we're sorry for. On the other hand, we will take every opportunity to remind them of the things they have said, for we have heard Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen be clear in his rejection of the lower benefits. But we think this is some socialist fat-playing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204722	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204724	Now the Social Democratic Party has reported in the past that it would like to have a ceiling on cash aid, but that it is just not exactly in the form adopted by V and K and DF and LA. Will the SF be prepared to open negotiations with the Social Democratic Party in relation to a new ceiling for cash aid, a different ceiling for cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204751	No, what we are going to negotiate with the Social Democratic Party is to remove the ceiling on cash aid, and I also feel quite sure that our comrades in the Social Democratic Party will be involved in an election where, in turn, the right-wing party will have to have the voting wedgie mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204805	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204807	SF was involved in the cash benefits reform from 2013. This helped to ensure that various family types of cash benefits were provided at a much lower level than is the case under the ceiling on cash benefits. For example: a couple on cash benefits under 30 years of age have a net amount of available, after tax, of DKK 18,800. If you're over 30 years old, you have 23,200 kroner. That means there's almost 5,000 kroner. In contrast. Why can it be that SF could help a 29-year-old couple to have a lower benefit, 5,000 DKK. less paid, but at the same time it seems a social disaster that a couple of 31 years old have 5,000 DKK. more paid out?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204914	But that is exactly what I referred to in the fine words of economic incentives. If you use economic incentives for people who are actually able to move, then that may make sense, as I have said myself. In other words, if you are able to step aside when you get a push, or move in a particular direction, you can, among other things, move in a particular direction. economic incentives actually be one of the things that brings people forward. And what the reform was about then was pushing more young people into education. So at the same time, when you say that you give a training order you give them the opportunity to take a training course and if, moreover, they have opportunities for action in their lives, then a financial incentive can actually be good. The people it is used against here are far along the way some who are unable to move. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108204959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205000	But that doesn't change the fact that with the cash aid ceiling you have 5,000 kroner. more to do well during the month, then just for this specific family type, of course, than the same family type, where you are under 30 years of age. After all, there is still a weekday you have to have to hang together, pay bills, etc., and it thought SF well enough you could with the amounts. But with 5,000 kroner. more it is then a social disaster that you can't get things together at all. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205037	Well, that actually makes sense, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen, for that would be like us starting to count the students who receive SU into poverty. We do not, of course, because we know that these people are in a situation where they are investing in their lives, where they have opportunities to act, so that they can see their lives in a longer perspective and where they can say: For a time I can live for less because I am investing in myself. And the group that we then wanted to press for education was some who were able to move. That's all the difference. You can use economic incentives, but you have to do so with people who have opportunities to act and who can move. Those that the right wing here hits just fall over.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205111	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205113	But should we then understand that the SF likes the ceiling on cash benefits in terms of job-ready cash benefits, that is to say that job preparation can well be covered by the ceiling on cash benefits, whereas the activity should not be covered by the ceiling on cash benefits? Is this an opportunity the rapporteur sees?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205145-2	No, I don't. I see it in very specific situations: towards young people, whom you can see has an interest in starting an education, it is possible to use it in limited areas and in a very special situation. It's just the case, and the numbers themselves show that this isn't moving anything. There's no argument for making it. After all, no one can seriously claim that up to 700 more people in the workforce can be a reason for bothering tens of thousands of people. And again: they have not been put into work, they have just been put into the labour force in such a theoretical way, and that is why I just think that a tool is being used to achieve something that is not achieved. Otherwise, you should take a look at the tools you use.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205224	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205226	So for the Socialist People's Party, it is very crucial whether you are 29 or 31, because if you are a 29-year-old who is ready for work, financial incentives make sense, but if you are 31 years old, is economic incentives no longer an option, and that does not make any sense anyway? Should I understand the rapporteur in this way? I guess this is basically about the fact that the Socialist People's Party is no longer government-supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205307	No, it's not about the age limit. It is about: Do those people in their situation have an opportunity to change it by, for example, taking an education? That was the difference at the time when we thought there were more young people who should go over and take an education, and therefore it could be used specifically and limited in relation to some people. Here you use it as a general tool and where it will not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205325	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have not noted any more rapporteurs who have asked to speak, but I understand that the Minister for Employment wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205340	Thank you. We have discussed today Question F 2 on the human and social consequences of the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit. Common to these initiatives is that they increase the incentive for individuals to choose an active working life rather than passive support. It is for the benefit of the individual, of his children and of society. Several people in today's debate have criticised the consequences of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. I fundamentally disagree with that criticism. It is quite reasonable to demand that the recipients of cash benefits are actually available to the labour market and actively seek to get to work. That is why the 225-hour rule is necessary and the rules contain the necessary exceptions so that citizens who are currently unable to work at all are not covered by the requirement. As far as the ceiling on cash benefits as such is concerned, this means that citizens are given strengthened incentives and still have quite reasonable amounts of money available. For example: In practical terms, the ceiling on cash benefits means that a single provider of cash benefits with three children will receive approx. $285,000. in total public benefits and grants and have approx. 13,000 kroner. a month, when taxes and rents are paid, and a couple with three children will continue to have approx. 15,500 kroner. available per month, after tax and rent etc. has been paid, corresponding to approx. 411,000 kroner. in total public transfers annually, taking into account the average family type calculations. At the same time as a few hours of work per week, the individual citizen will be able to recover all or part of the housing allowance or the special support to which he or she has lost his or her right because of the ceiling. For example: a typical single parent with a child will be completely free from the ceiling of cash benefits by approx. Six hours of work a week and will at the same time meet the employment requirement of these 225 hours. With its overall plan, the government, in addition to lower taxes at the bottom, has planned to grant the long-term unemployed a job premium of up to DKK 45,000. within the first few years, if they get into jobs, and this will further increase the incentive to get into jobs, even quite noticeably. It is both right and proper for citizens who go to work every day to see that they are actually getting something out of it. At the same time, more people need to support themselves rather than receive public support if we are to be able to finance the welfare society we want for the future. The best thing we can do for children is to support parents getting into jobs, and that is exactly what we are trying to do with the job reform. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205706	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205707	Thank you. I heard the Minister say that the ceiling on cash benefits and the legislation we are discussing here today encourage cash benefits recipients to opt for active employment rather than passive support. That is the clearest expression I have heard so far from the Minister and a recognition that there is a gross suspicion in the arguments for this legislation of the recipients of cash benefits. What are some cash benefits recipients who have chosen to be on passive support? I'd like the Minister to tell me that. Who is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205749	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205750	There is no suspicion of anyone. This is a structural approach in which we have ensured that there is a tiny gap between our minimum collective wage and the amount of cash benefits available to you. It is our view that it is a necessary precondition that you get something out of getting a job if you are offered a job. A society and a dependent system cannot be made to exist if people who leave our lowest public support and enter an agreed position with a minimum wage do not make any financial use of it. The economic incentives must work in our labour market and, where they work, something quite positive comes out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205839	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205841	Work has always paid off. The difference between a cash benefit and an HK minimum wage, including fixed supplements that can be made up in kroner and ear, is, as I described earlier in the evening, for a lonely DKK 11,000. Before tax and for a breadwinner approx. 7,000 kroner. Before taxes. So working has always paid off. But what I arrested was the Minister's statement that this legislation encourages people to choose a job rather than passive support. Can the Minister not hear that it is totally wrong to choose a job rather than to choose passive support? There are no cash benefits recipients who have opted for passive support. This cannot be done, as the legislation has been put together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108205930	The comparison, as Mr. Finn Sørensen's doing is not relevant. You cannot go down to Brugsen and buy anything for the pension contributions paid to Pension Denmark or elsewhere. So we have to look at the available amounts if you are working at a minimum wage or if you are on cash benefits, and this is where we have ensured that there is the small distance, so there is money to buy a bus ticket and perhaps money to join a union. That's what we've secured. We have ensured that there is a small but small economic incentive here too. I therefore hope that we will also adopt job reform 2 so that there will be a real economic incentive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210012	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210015	Thank you. That was more the wording for opting for passive support. It's not like that today. After all, no one can choose to be on passive support. After all, there is still a demand that we should be available for the labour market, which is why I just have to ask the Minister about the following. The minister says this about creating incentives to take a job. If it is the case that the incentive is actually already there and people get something out of getting an ordinary job, then Mr. Joachim B. Olsen was kind enough to point out earlier that we should not judge on the intention, but on the consequence, and if the intention is to bring people into ordinary work, but the consequence is that people lose their homes, are squeezed out of their homes, the legislation does not work. Can the Minister then guarantee that those who actually choose to be available for the labour market, because in order to be able to receive cash assistance, they will not have to be affected by the unintended consequences of losing their homes and thus going further away from the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210122	If the first part of the question was addressed to me, I would like to arrest it. I have never said that anyone can opt for passive support. You can't do that. It's a right you have if you have a need. My aim in what we are doing here is to find ways for people who have a working capacity to actually gain a foothold in the labour market. We're creating a lot of jobs these months. Four out of ten of the jobs we create will be occupied with citizens from other European countries, while at the same time we have a lot of people in Denmark on the edge of the labour market. We cannot be familiar with that. We need to clear this up so that the municipalities help cash aid recipients to get to work if they have a working capacity and help cash benefits recipients further in the dependency and treatment system, if that is the way they should go. The current situation is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210214	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210216	Thank you. But if it is the case that the consequences of this legislation are that citizens are being squeezed out of their homes, how does this bring them closer to the labour market? How does it make their social situation even more uncertain, even if they meet the demands we make to them, to be available for the labour market, if the consequence is that they are pushed further out, where they lose their homes and where they have worse social conditions? How would this bring them closer to the labour market? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210249	The ceiling on cash benefits brings citizens closer to the labour market if they have a working capacity, if the municipalities do what we are calling for now. They are required to help citizens if they are at risk of being affected by the 225-hour rule. They must help citizens if they find it difficult to get in touch with business and they must help citizens in the treatment system if that is the way they have to go. We have only agreed yesterday on the rate pool, where a few hundred million kroner will be spent in the next few years in order to reverse all the piles so that a decision is taken on the situation of the recipients of cash benefits. The worst thing for the recipients of cash benefits is to continue along the track that has been running in recent years, where the number has risen dramatically, and where we get pictures of tens of thousands of people no not tens of thousands, but over tens of thousands of cash benefits recipients have been on cash benefits for more than 10 years continuously, and there are plenty of examples of cash benefits recipients who have also been 15 years, 20 years, 24 years. That is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210348	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210350	After all, we have heard several examples today of how real pay is in the workplace, and yet the Minister continues to mention that there is something with a difference of DKK 3. per hour, or it was maybe 7 kroner.? Isn't there a name for that way, like manipulation? That's one. Secondly, can the Minister not confirm that not many people are working on what we can call the raw, pure minimum wage in the collective agreements? And can the Minister also confirm that those who do so, quite quickly thereafter, typically within 1-3 months, are increasing significantly in wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210424	Well, aside from the term manipulation, I think I kind of agree with most of it, sir. Karsten Hønge says. But there is a reason why we have minimum wages in the collective agreements. These are entrance wages, and they are often the wages that are relevant to people who have been out of the labour market for a long time. Therefore, it is appropriate to compare the minimum contractual wages with the cash benefits, and therefore it is essential that there is little air between the minimum contractual wages and what you have left for yourself here and now in cash benefits. That is what is needed if the dynamics we know in the labour market, which we are now also getting in the area of unemployment benefits, are to some extent to be extended to the field of cash assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210508	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210510	Yes, but it's manipulation when you say, "But we can't take the pension contributions, 'cause you can't go down and buy food for that." In other words, I trust that all the people in this country, including the recipients of cash benefits, will actually be able to understand that if you take a job, there will be more than just the pay you may get during the first pay period and that may well be the raw minimum wage in the agreement. You know that pension contributions are also included. They also know that it is an investment to take a job because in a short time they are likely to increase in wages. And that's the real difference between getting a job and being on cash aid, and that's why it's way bigger than those like that 3-7 kr, as the minister claims it is. The distance, the air that is, is really much larger.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210552	As has been shown in the reports from the Ministry of Employment in recent days, there are a great many other families, employees' families, who live for an amount of available money equivalent to what you have when you are on cash benefits, after the ceiling. That's one. The second is that it is not okay if you have been on cash benefits for a number of years and are given the opportunity to get into a job, that you then experience that the amount of availability you have here and now to go down into a business and buy goods for or pay rent for is being reduced; that there is no room for perhaps a bus ticket, a trade union quota etc. That's what we've secured. This is a necessity if we want our labour market to work together with the social security system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210635	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. Then it's the Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108210645	Thank you. The question today, as several people have also mentioned, has given rise to the question of whether we Ministers can provide information on the human and social consequences of legislation on the ceiling for cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration allowance. I can certainly say something about what it means if we follow the policy of the Red Block here, because I have not heard the red block today at all interested in integration in Denmark. But that's what it's been like. You haven't dared to make demands, ever. They say you want integration, but you don't make demands. I expect that when you come to Denmark, you will contribute. You contribute to the labour market, but you also take Denmark in. But you have to say that if you look back at the 30 years when we have had a relatively large immigration to Denmark, then integration has failed. It is under both bourgeois and red governments, but basically there is no doubt that every time you have had a red government with support parties from among others. the extreme left, there have just been no demands at all. What are the consequences of this? It is that we have many people in Denmark who are completely outside Danish society, who have not taken the value set into account, who do not participate in the labour market, and whose children grow up in a society that they really do not know about because they live in a parallel society. And what has been done on the left side? You have leaned back and, by the way, no demands have been made. That is why we have introduced the benefits of integration. That is why we have introduced the ceiling on cash benefits. That is why we have introduced the 225-hour rule. When you look at the 225-hour rule, you might ask: Is it rigid? Yes, it is. These are rather square rules that we have introduced. But the 225-hour rule is the world's best argument for a woman to enter the labour market, because if you do not provide the 225-hour job in the labour market, then you lose the right to benefit the following year. Imagine that the left is just sitting back and saying: No, we should not make demands, everything will be fine. I can promise you it won't work out. So if the left doesn't wake up soon, and I must honestly admit that I have my doubts as to whether you will ever wake up, then not only will there be a gigantic financial bill ahead of us, and I think that is obvious to everyone, but there will also be a gigantic value bill that can be very, very difficult to pay. That is why one can only thank you for the fact that there is, after all, a bourgeois majority at the moment in Denmark who dares to make demands that have the will and the ability to make demands, while one has a left wing that just sits back and says: everything will be fine. I can only promise you, it's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211017	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211021	Thank you. I think the Minister is well aware that it has always been the case that, in order to be able to obtain cash benefits, one must be available for the labour market. These are the rules, and it is therefore nonsense to say that no claims have been made on the recipients of cash benefits. It's there all the way through. But we will probably not agree on that, because when it comes to making demands, perhaps the Minister is thinking of something quite different. But I would just like to ask the Minister: how and why should integration help to make thousands of people who have not been in Denmark for 7 years out of the last 8 years poorer? How would that help integration? That is what we want an answer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211113	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211116	I can assure you, sir. Finn Sørensen can get very quickly, because this isn't about being on integration performance. This is about getting into the labour market. And yes, the integration service is low. And yes, you're not going to live a great life on integration benefits, but you're not supposed to live on integration benefits either; you're supposed to go into the labour market. That's why the integration service is screwed up as it is. Yes, you have to be available for the labour market if you get cash benefits. That is what we need to do if we are to be able to benefit from integration. But let us look at what further demands have been made: that is, if you get cash assistance and you can build up a tower of benefits for yourself so that it is not worthwhile to work, it is of course of little use, Mr President. Finn Sørensen. That's just what we can see. This has been of no use, and that is why we have had to introduce a ceiling on cash aid that we have introduced. That is why we had to halve the benefits, so we have an integration benefit, and that is why we had to introduce a 225-hour rule, which is precisely the world's best argument, especially for women, to enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211220	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211222	Now the world of reality is so organized that the Minister is not able to tell us where the job vacancies are, as these many thousands of people on integration benefit are going to go out and get. If the jobs had been there, they'd have gotten them. And the Minister is not in a position to tell us where the unemployed, cheap housing is, in which people on integration benefit must move when they cannot afford to live where they live now, not to mention all the cash benefit recipients who also have to find themselves somewhere else to live. And as long as you can't explain it, we'll just have to admit that it's just some phrases that the minister is firing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211300	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211302	Fortunately, these are not just phrases, because we can look at the number of Eastern Europeans working in Denmark at the moment. How many Eastern Europeans worked in Denmark in 2015? This made 105,977 East Europeans, well to feel people who far along the way do not speak the Danish language. And frankly, if you come from Bulgaria and can clean up and take one of the almost 26,000 jobs that have been taken in the cleaning industry, without being very Danish, you can also, if you come from Syria. So that's where you could start. One could start by taking some of the work that the Eastern Europeans are currently working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211342	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211345	Thank you. When you hear the Minister for Integration, you can almost get the impression that the integration effort is about reducing the benefits as much as possible, because if you do that, integration will go well because demands are then made. I think that is a somewhat simplistic presentation. The fundamental problem that I cannot really hear the Minister come up with is how to strengthen integration by pushing people so much economically that they find it difficult to find accommodation. How do you strengthen the integration efforts in the municipalities by standing in the hands of the municipalities to invent solutions so that they can have housing in which people at integration benefit can afford to live? Because there are no ordinary homes for those people when they receive integration benefits. It's a service that's so low, so it's hard to find a real home. So the municipalities are forced to come up with emergency solutions to find accommodation for these people. How does this strengthen integration efforts? How does it strengthen the opportunity to get these people into the labour market that they become so pressured economically that finding a place to live becomes a problem for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211452	Now you can hear how Mr. Peder Hvelplund again assumes that these people will not enter the labour market. That is what is at the heart of the Enhedslisten's view of the refugees and immigrants who come to Denmark, that is to say that they do not necessarily have to contribute. That is the whole difference between the right and the left in the Chamber: nothing is expected from the left. They are not expected to contribute to Danish society. And that's why you don't dare make the demands either. I admit that if you're on integration benefit, you're not going to live a great life. But it is precisely the intention that we should not be on the benefit of integration, and that gives everything else a better chance of finding another place to live, if we earn our own money, and if we went out and tried to take some of the jobs that the Eastern Europeans are sitting on today. However, it should not be quite impossible, if you are acidic, to contest a cleaning job, even if you only master the Danish language sparingly. I want to guarantee that there are a lot of people from Eastern Europe who work in the Danish cleaning industry and who do not master the Danish language very well either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211604	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211606	Then I would like to make a request to the Minister for Integration, namely that the Minister should listen to what I am saying. I am not saying that people should stay on integration benefits. I just ask the Minister: how does it strengthen the ability of these people to enter the labour market, that just finding a place to live is a problem, and that resources should be used to find a place to live and to maintain their own home rather than to have a surplus to go out and look for a job? How does this strengthen integration? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211637	First of all, I feel that we have given the municipalities better opportunities to accommodate temporarily when they settle the refugees who come into the municipalities. That is, you can live more together, you can live in a little more alternative ways than you could before. In addition, we have set aside a bunch of money to build new, cheap housing. In the time when you saw, for example... If you are temporarily resident as a refugee, you could actually try to get a job and then you are out of the integration benefit. And that means that you have some more opportunities to find a better place to live. Because then you're gonna make your own money, and you're gonna make more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211714	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211716	I found it very difficult to hear that the Minister is also Minister for Housing, in the speech that was made. After all, these low benefits also concern people who consider themselves to be very Danish and who have been in Denmark for many years. I really think it would be nice if the Minister for Housing had a little more focus on the consequences of the laws that have been passed and felt that when Glostrup Municipality recommends citizens to move far away to where you can get a cheap house and where it is difficult to get a job, it has some consequences for those people. I would like to hear from the Minister whether there are particularly good opportunities for integration if it is the case that a cash aid recipient moves to one of the outermost regions of Denmark where you can get a cheap accommodation, but where it is very difficult to get a job. In other words, what is the integration of newcomers that is possible in a very cheap and perhaps bad house when, at the same time, there are bad opportunities to find a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211821	Well, what kind of quitting attitude on the Enhedslisten side? It's almost unbearable to listen to. So, can I not just first know where exactly it is that Glostrup Municipality has officially urged their citizens to move to a cheaper municipality? It may well be that some politician has said so, but it is not the same as the municipality recommending it. What is the nonsense of trying to tear both the rapporteur of the Left and now here following myself in the nose? Let me just say again: there is also the possibility of commuting. Well, a lot of other people do. So you can do that too, i.e. commute to jobs, for example. via the cleaning industry. Let me know if there are not relatively many people working in the Danish cleaning industry who may also commute from one municipality to another. I think it's happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211919	There's no reason to be so angry. If you take and read local media covering the Glostrup area, you can read some quotes from the Social Committee chairman Lars Thomsen from the Left, who has spoken out. It's not that far away. It is no further away than a Google search; then you can sort out what it is for a reality that is out there in the municipalities. I find it deeply worrying about the legal certainty or lack of legal certainty that exists in relation to the recipients of cash benefits: that they receive such a different treatment from the municipality to the municipality. Is that what has been the intention of the law: that the municipalities should treat cash aid recipients as differently as can be seen in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108211956	So that means that every time a politician says something, it draws the whole party, the whole municipality or even the whole parliament? I don't think so. I don't think the Enhedslisten thinks so either. If I know Enhedslisten correctly, I think that one has also had a case within the Enhedslisten, where a politician had said something that the rest of the Enhedslisten did not quite like, and that it even meant that he was not allowed to enter the Folketing. So I guess you have to be careful with these quotes. But let me just say this straight away and again: you will not live fat on the benefits of integration. Nor does it mean that we should be on the benefit of integration. The point is that working must always pay off. And that is all the difference between your policy and our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108212038	We thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. A second round has been requested, and the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament allow it to do so. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, this time by three minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108212054	Thank you. I shall briefly outline the position of the Conservatives on the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration allowance. We are, of course, in favour of this, since we have been involved in adopting it. In fact, I think that is one of the most sensible things we have adopted in this parliamentary assembly. I understand that there are some people who think it is a pity that they are going to get a little less money than they have been given in the past. Of course, this will always trigger some reluctance, and I do not want to overlook the fact that there are people in economically tight situations where, of course, it can be very depressing for them that cash aid is being reduced compared to what it has been in the past. But I think there has to be a little more proportion in the debate than there has been so far. I think it's very violent what we've had to listen to in connection with this cash aid ceiling, compared to how high the left has swung up and had his followers swung up to make this one of the most horrible, anti-human, poverty-creating, and so on. etc. According to the studies I have read, we still have away the world's highest cash aid. It is considerably higher than it is in Sweden and other countries, for example, where you also think you have a very good safety net. A single parent with two children has, following the introduction of the ceiling for cash benefits, DKK 17,600. paid after tax in total benefits. That's what you have to live for, that's what you've paid out. On top of that, you get some discounts on various things, first and foremost free places, which help to make the economic situation coherent. We think that is quite a reasonable level. We do not think that it should be either higher or lower, we are well satisfied with the level of cash aid now available. We think it is absolutely good that these amounts can be made available. If you cannot do so, then you have to see that the other parts of the world are really, really inhuman and evil, in other words, in relation to the levels of cash aid they have. I have been able to understand that in the debate, among other things. The Enhedslisten will not relate. You don't want to say it's the world's highest cash aid. Social democracy will not relate to the amounts, they just want to be allowed to blow off the plunder that it is awful, but they will not relate to whether you can actually manage for the amounts that are here. I think that's a little cheap. I find it difficult to see how to discuss a cash aid ceiling without also relating to the size of it. It is clear that you will win the debate if you are allowed to stand and say that it is wrong to cut back on some of the people who have the least, but when you look at the amounts that are actually involved, I and the Conservative People's Party certainly think that we can be familiar with this. We wish money was on the trees, but they don't. We think we have found a reasonable level.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108212404	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Finn Sørensen, who has 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108212412	Thank you. I think that as a representative of those who have raised the question, I should like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate. It has not brought us closer to that, but the fronts have been pulled up very clearly. There is one thing I would like to comment on, as the Minister said in his first speech. It was that the Minister is very concerned that the municipalities are going through the cases with the many thousands of sick cash benefit recipients to find out whether they are also right now because, as the Minister says, and everyone can only agree with that, cash benefits should only be a temporary benefit. But the real world is that thousands of cash benefits recipients have been on cash benefits for many, many years. So it is worthwhile that the Minister will start calling on the municipalities to do so. I also understand that one has delved into the pool of rates, which is, as it were, the poor's own money, if it is to be said that it is they who finance it and who have found some money there to promote that procedure in some way. The purpose is noble. I do not think it suits the parties concerned to allow the poor themselves to finance it. It must be fair for all taxpayers to contribute to it. But what is my point in this respect is that the Minister admits that there is a piece of work that should have been done before this legislation was adopted. There's a realization in it. I do not think I can get the Minister up here and admit it, but in trying to get some funds to solve a problem, as the rest of us pointed out when the law was being dealt with, it is also a recognition of that. The Minister may also have to recognise that it is impossible to clean up and reverse the pile, if that is the case, if we do not also amend the legislation on early retirement and various other legislations, which, after all, block the possibility that those who are unable to work and who cannot have a greater capacity for work because of sickness, disability, etc., can be placed on some services that are more worthy financially. So my point here is: the Minister should have admitted that it should have been cleared up before and I would like to address that criticism to all the conciliation parties behind the cash aid ceiling and the integration benefit. Then I have to say about the discussion: yes, it is very clear. I do not think that we who have asked questions here have been given an answer to the crucial question. For we have asked time and time again: if we now look at the premises on which the majority in this House is working, namely that there should be an economic incentive, that we should get people into the labour market and that we should have better integration, how should this help integration? How can it help these people to get a job, to make them poorer, to put many of them in a situation where they have to leave their homes or are forced out of them? How, in the name of heaven, would this bring them closer to the labour market and bring them closer to good integration? No matter how many times you repeat the amounts that cash benefits recipients have and do not have in different family types, you cannot change the reality that there will be people forced out of their homes as a result of this legislation. There will be people who become poorer. And then you should be able to answer the question: What good will it do? But it doesn't, and it just shows that it's something else it's all about. Then, of course, I must also look inward and say: yes, we have a problem in the opposition. We agree to criticise this legislation. There are four parties that have clearly said that when we get a majority after the next elections, we will abolish it again. But we can't bring the fifth party. That is deeply regrettable and shameful, but we must just continue to work on it. And with, we must say, the help of many good people outside the Folketing, it must succeed at some point. Then I have to say that we also have another task, and it will probably be the parties in the opposition who will have to solve it. It is, of course, to get to grips with the municipalities for two purposes. One is to help the people who get in trouble within the narrow framework that lies; and the other is to put this question on the agenda for the next municipal elections and to appoint the political parties responsible for increasing poverty and for people to be put out of their homes. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108212917	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108212919	Is it Enhedslisten's goal that no one should have to move out of their accommodation due to the size of the cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108212930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108212932	Well, it had, I would say, nothing to do with the amount of cash aid, at least not much. That is why we in Denmark have introduced something called housing security, also called housing support, that in the Act on Active Social Policy we have a section 34 which is about the possibility of obtaining special housing support if you have a special need or are faced with an emergency event. So that's why we've introduced these benefits. That is also why we have introduced family allowances, help to pay day care and additional family allowances and children's checks. The purpose of these subsidies has been to prevent us from having poor children in Denmark. That is why we have introduced them. But that is precisely the policy that the bourgeois majority in this Parliament is in the process of undermining.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108213029	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108213034	We just have the attitude in the bourgeois bloc that if you have a very expensive rent and you end up on cash benefits, you have to find a accommodation with a lower rent. That's the way it has to be. It cannot be the case that it is the Community's job to pay any rent that people have, and so, of course, there will be some who, when they go from work to having a lower income on cash benefits, cannot afford a home they have set themselves in, provided that they had the income they had when they were in work. And when Enhedslisten makes it sound as if it's unreasonable and a disaster that some people are losing their homes, then you're far out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108213107	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108213110	Indeed, losing one's home can be most disastrous for a family, especially if there is no other place for them to move to. And that is the problem: there are no representatives of the bourgeois majority here in the Folketing who have been able to tell us where the unemployed, cheap housing are, in which these cash aid recipients must move as a result of the reduction made by the bourgeois majority and which has made them unable to pay their current rent. That is what we have not been able to get an answer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108213145	We say thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday 15 November 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108213158	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108213211	As I have said on several occasions, I am prepared to look into the issue raised. Nobody can, of course, benefit from the fact that the intentions behind the legislation are being circumvented, and I think we can all agree on that. I have therefore also asked my officials to make an offer by the end of the year as to where changes and clarifications may be needed in the rules on public service obligations. I have indicated this in a consultation which has already taken place on the matter, actually a relatively long time ago, and I stand by that, of course. On the other hand, I find it rather difficult to understand the haste expressed in the motion for a resolution, which calls for changes in the rules to be made by the end of the year. We stand here today as a result of the Carlsberg Foundation's sale of properties. As far as I know, there have not been any examples of such actions since then, and if there has been, there has certainly not been much mention of them. There is therefore no indication that we are facing massive or growing problems which require rapid action. In fact, I think we should use this to create a well-thought-out and balanced solution. We must, of course, first of all look at the rules governing the obligation to offer shares or shares in real estate companies and shares or shares in holding companies. But there may also be other provisions that may need a review. There may be, for example: be good reason to consider whether, in the context of the tender process, digital communication can be used more effectively. It is also a quite comprehensive material that the landlord must submit to the tenants as it is today as part of the obligation to offer. All in all, I think it is in favour of a possible legislative proposal to include modernisation of the whole chapter on obligation to offer, so that it balances better in the law and so that things come together. However, I believe that any changes in the law should be included in the proposal for a single rental law, which we will be discussing here in the Folketing. This will allow the proposed amendments to the law to appear balanced overall, taking into account both rental and rental interests. In this context, I also believe that it is important to bear in mind that it is not in every respect an advantage to convert rentals into cohabitation units. I certainly believe that we all have an interest in the fact that in future there will also be cheap private rentals. Private rentals often play an important role in the overall supply, since the rentals can be transferred to and from the premises without the high costs which could otherwise be associated with the purchase of ownership or cooperative housing. It is beneficial for both job and housing mobility if we have such a well-functioning market. If you look at the tenants who live in the homes at the time of sale, you can see that the trade itself does not mean any kind of change for them. The individual tenant is thus neither better nor inferior because the property changes ownership. Against this background, the government cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. However, I would like to add that I will be following developments in this area. That is what I said at the conciliation meeting. But since there has been no development, there has been little to follow. Should there then be an urgent need for this, we can act quickly with necessary legislative changes. But I have to say that I would strongly recommend that we get this done in the right way and that we think things through.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108213628	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur's report and to the rapporteur's report. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108213635	The social democracy's housing policy is based on Denmark having mixed neighbourhoods and cities where you meet each other across social groups. Strong primary schools and strong associations are the prerequisites for more Danish children to break the social heritage and create the life they want. However, this presupposes, first and foremost, that the residential areas in which pupils and members of associations live include both people with low, ordinary and higher incomes. That is why it is essential for the Social Democrats that in all the decisions we take in housing policy, we aim to create more mixed towns and more mixed neighbourhoods. An important element of this vision is that we have a cooperative housing sector which represents a real alternative to rental homes and owner-occupied housing. The cooperatives must be an alternative which is democratically governed and which is economically easier to reach than the owner-occupied dwellings. The units were, when Anker Jørgensen's government introduced the obligation to offer, a form of housing that allowed many Danes, especially in the cities. However, we must also recognise that the cooperative idea has taken in water since the VK government introduced the right to borrow in the homes in 2005. In many places, apartments cost almost the same as condominiums, and we have seen examples of speculation about setting up cooperatives. When the ship takes in water, the question is how best to make it seaworthy again. On the part of the Social Democrats, we want the ship to be docked. We will look at how the cooperative housing sector should be combined forward-looking so that we can maintain it as a good alternative to the owner-occupied housing. Today's proposal from Enhedslisten and SF is to use a bucket to pour water over the rail. Perhaps we are taking in less water than we would otherwise have done, but that does not solve the basic problem. We in the Social Democratic Party recognise that we must ensure that the obligation to offer is respected. Unfortunately, the examples that have appeared in the press indicate that there are gaps in the legislation that we need to cover. But we must not legislate against it without knowing the conditions to the full. If everything goes well, a motion for a resolution like this might come into force during 2017, when we will still have to negotiate a new lease law. In a debate on a new lease, there will be an opportunity for us to have a thorough account of the situation in the field, not least in relation to the obligation to offer. This allows us to take a decision on a much more enlightened basis than we do with today's motion for a resolution, and we in the Socialist Group believe that this is preferable. That is why the Social Democratic Party is opposed to the Enhedslisten and the SF, despite the good intentions, and I must convey a greeting from the Radicals, who could not be here, and say that they are also opposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108213909	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108213914	So, the Carlsberg site case was mentioned in a media called EjendomsWatch on 8 August this year, and it was interesting to see what the former Social Democrat housing rapporteur, Mr. Jan Johansen, said about the scam the pension companies had used. He was quoted as saying that the trick that pension companies are doing is bypassing the legislation we adopted many years ago. I don't think it's gonna be long enough to look at the problem in a year's time. She (The Minister of Housing, Red. ) must address the problem now. It has been so long since the three-month period and the Social Democratic Party has been given new housing rapporteur, and I understand from the rapporteur that this is a completely different course now being taken. So this measure, which the rapporteur now considers to be comparable to using a small bucket in a large boat, was something that the former housing rapporteur thought should be dealt with immediately and not postponed until a year from now. Is this a change of course made by the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214017	In other words, it should be a change of course, that a decision on the solution is made now and, in reality, it will only be implemented in 2017, which is, frankly, just around the corner, I cannot see. Of course, it's nice that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is also studying the views of the Social Democratic Party in this area, but it has to be said that, Mr. Jan Johansen or I think about the cooperative housing sector, of course, is exactly the same and nothing has changed in it. I also believe that if you ask any of the former Social Democratic housing rapporteurs, they will say that it is a question of having a proper basis for decision, and that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214107	Well, I would stress that you stand by what you say, and when I see the outlines of the fact that there could be 105 members of parliament who would do something specific to close a gap in the legislation, I think there could be a chance that this could be done. That is why this motion for a resolution is under discussion today. But I hope that the Social Democratic Party will still look carefully at the fact that we can also have cooperative housing in Denmark in the future, which can be part of the total housing package for the Danes and allow for different types of housing to choose from.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214136	But I would like to say that instead of discussing whether we can reach it a few months before on an uninformed basis, let us discuss what we want to do with the cooperative housing sector. Because I think there may well be many parties here in the Folketing who can somehow reach an agreement on where we want to go with it. So let us get to grips with the discussion instead of what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214157	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214206	My first reaction when I saw this proposal was: it is actually very sympathetic. And I guess that was my first thought when this case started. Nor am I in any doubt that the intention of the legislation has been circumvented. But there are a number of exceptions in this legislation, which we also have to respect. I think there should be room for some exceptions, which is why I also think it might be dangerous to react with this automatic reaction that you have immediately. Because if you always just react to the impulse, you can quickly make a lot of patching solutions without perhaps seeing if there are gaps elsewhere that you should take into account immediately. I think it is much more appropriate that we go in and look at the legislation as a whole, look at all the different aspects of it, and ensure that it as a whole can also work in Denmark in the future, as it has done so far, except for these individual cases. So, on the part of the Danish People's Party, although we find the proposal very sympathetic, we cannot support it. But I hope that it has been set up and I heard what the Minister said earlier to look at how we can see it in a larger whole and then start from it. And I certainly expect that we will be called up for some negotiations on whether or not this is the case in connection with the evaluation of the rental law, which we are due to start with in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214323	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214326	Yeah, well, an automatic reaction might be the right thing to do. So, if you mean something political, it may be good to report it out, and that is also what the Danish People's Party's Housing Rapporteur has done in the following quote: If there is a hole that can be tried several times before we get a look at it, then I think we need to make a patch solution here and now, says Merete Dea Larsen, Housing Rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, to PropertyWatch. It was also a long time ago, three months ago, on 8 August, and I think that the problem is the same. However, it is of course interesting to find out if there have been several trades that have taken place in this way, where you have created a creative limited company, and where there is no party that is the main shareholder, so that you can bypass the law. I think it might be interesting to get that out. Because if there is, if there is more than one case, then this should be something that makes it impossible to wait a whole year to evaluate things.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214422	Exactly. As I say there too, I believe that an urgent patch solution could be appropriate if you see that this is a law which, you might say, is repeatedly used. It is not my experience that the intention in the legislation has been bypassed several times since this one example, which is why I have just waited and think it is important that we take it as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214449	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214451	Well, then, I hope that some people in the cooperative housing sector are listening to this debate. Let's see if we get some more examples. It could be really exciting, because if there is, there is a move that maybe we should do a quick action.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214503	Well, there is no doubt that if someone is consciously continuing to circumvent the intention of a law, and we can see that it happens several times, then one may have to act faster than otherwise had been done. However, I believe that it is most important that we have proper legislation and ensure that holes do not just occur elsewhere, so that we secure the whole package.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214523	Thank you to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214530	Thank you, sir. President. I am aware that this resolution stems from the sale of properties by the Carlsberg Foundation, which has challenged, if you can put it that way, the case law in force within the framework of the rules on public service obligations laid down in the Lease Act. It is therefore also natural to consider whether the legislation in force needs to be clarified or amended. However, as the Minister has already indicated both now in the ministerial speech, but also on previous occasions, she has already asked her officials to look at the current rules on the obligation to offer, so that we can have a comprehensive plan, i.e. a single rental law in the summer of 2017. However, I understand from the authors that they want the new rules to come into force as early as the turn of the year, which is a fairly short period. Here, however, the Left is in line with the Minister. Any clarifications or changes to the applicable rules on the obligation to offer should be part of the overall proposal for a comprehensive lease law, including the obligation to offer. In this context, the Left will await the Ministry's bid as to where clarification or changes may be needed in the rules on the obligation to offer services. That is why the Left cannot support the proposal. I welcome the Conservatives and say that the same applies to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214652	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214656	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his statement. I would really like to know now that we are discussing this motion for a resolution on cooperative housing, what the policy of the Left really is, in relation to what the cooperative sector should be like. In other words, like the Liberal Alliance, do we think that we should bring it up to market prices or market prices and that we should not have a cooperative sector in the way we know today? And if you want to, do you still think that there should be the tax advantages that the cooperative sector has at present?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214730	To be honest with you, I must be guilty of an answer. We're gonna come up with a plan for the lease here next year, so I don't want to go down into individual parts. That is also the reason why we do not start making such a blanket here and now, when we look at the obligation to offer, where we look at one and where we look at the other. We would like to come up with one overall plan, which will then be presented in the summer of 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214751	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214753	Yes, and we look forward to it. It's not to pull it out or anything, but if we imagine that a cohabitation takes a form like an owner's residence, do you still have to have the tax advantage in the cohabitation, which there isn't in an owner's apartment?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214810	Quite frankly, I must be answerable, as I said. I'm covering this area for the housing rapporteur, and I've gotten into this very area. However, the issue is slightly outside the scope of the debate we have on the obligation to offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214824	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214827	I would like to ask the rapporteur to welcome the Conservatives and to say that I find it interesting that the Conservatives have a member in the Conservatives' representation who is out defending the obligation to provide services. This, of course, means that there is a little hope that there may be even more parties to support this motion for a resolution. So I would like the rapporteur to come with me to the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214847	Thank you. I will do so with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214850	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108214858	We have the view of different types of housing in Denmark that each of them serves a purpose and has an audience. Some prefer ownership homes, and this is often linked to their desire and expectation to live in their homes for a longer period of time and therefore to the one-time cost of change of ownership. Others want to live in a cohabitation, and the same is true. There are also some once-in-a-lifetime costs associated with a change of ownership in a cohabitation, and you bring them with you if you want to stay there for a long time. If you do not want to live there for long periods of time, it may be wiser to find a rental home. And that is the purpose of the rental homes, namely that there is not so much one-off costs involved in moving into a rental home. So if you don't have a knowledge that you want to live there for a very long time or if, on the contrary, you expect to live there only for a short time, then a rental home is the best. So there we have a problem today with the obligation to provide services. For the obligation to offer, in particular in Copenhagen, one private rental increase after the other is converted into the cooperative housing association, not because the customer base for cooperative housing associations is greater than the customer base for the other, but because there is a preference in the legislation for cooperative housing and the creation of new cooperative housing. If a private landlord wants to sell his or her rental property because he or she does not want to run it more or maybe wants to retire, then it is a duty of the law that the price that another landlord will give should also be allowed to give, and then the accommodation should be handed over to them as a cooperative housing association. It is the obligation to offer, and it is the one that ensures that there are fewer and fewer private rentals, especially in the inner city of Copenhagen, and that they are all on the way to becoming cooperative housing associations. If you do the prognosis, you can see that in 20-30 years there will be hardly any left. That is because of the obligation to offer, and we think that is a problem. I can see that, sir. Kaare Dybvad sits and shakes his head down there, but it is a well-known fact that it is the obligation to offer them at the same price to the residents and that these residents then have a right to buy them as cooperative associations. If the obligation to offer were not there, several of these increases would be sold to other landlords and would thus be retained as private rental homes. That is why we want to abolish the obligation to offer, and so we cannot support a motion for a resolution which means tightening up the obligation to offer. We want the opposite, we want it abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215206	Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215209	That really disappoints me a little. Because I have once read a book by the rapporteur, in which he somehow says that he knows something like that with statistics and how to produce them. But when over a short period of time there are 4,000 homes a year that have been transformed, that does not mean that in 10 years' time it will still be 4,000 on average. For example: In the years following the crisis, there were no 4,000 dwellings converted into cohabitation units at all. So the thing about taking 4,000 and rewriting it and saying that in a few years' time, there's nothing left, you can't. It was just as when it was said in the 1980s that in the year 2032 there would not be a single citizen left in the City of Copenhagen. That changed, and in this way statistics can cheat a little, and the rapporteur should really be aware of that, but enough about it. What I really wanted to ask is that the Liberal Alliance, as they have done in the past, wants to liberalise it, in other words turn the cooperatives into owner-occupied housing. Should the cooperatives then be deprived of the tax advantages that they have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215307	First of all, if over a number of years 4 000 rental homes are converted into cooperative housing, it will be 4 000 fewer, and then for a few years a break will be taken before the conversion of rentals into cooperative housing again begins again. There's only one direction to this, because it's not like it's going the other way. It is not the case that cooperative housing associations are at any time converted back into private rental homes. There is only one way, and there are fewer and fewer private rental homes and more and more cooperative housing associations instead. So the inevitable road is towards zero private rentals in the older city centre in Copenhagen. Then there is the question of what should happen if cooperative housing associations transform themselves into owner-occupied housing associations, as we think they should have the opportunity. In that case, they will automatically be subject to the tax regime applicable to owner-occupied dwellings. It's not something we decide. This is something the owners decide for themselves because they have a desire to transform the cooperative housing association into owner-occupied housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215410	Of course, what the rapporteur says is nonsense. Because the funny thing about the housing market is that new homes are being built every year. In the last 25 years alone, half a million new homes have been built in Denmark, and the housing market has been increased by 20%, so of course it is not. But let me turn to the question and that what the Liberal Alliance is actually saying now is something other than what I heard from a conservative guy this weekend who was at a panel debate and who said: we do not want them to have a tax on their homes in cooperative housing, by turning it into owner-occupied housing, we want the others to have their taxes removed from the owner-occupied housing. So what the Liberal Alliance is saying now is in fact that they are going to impose an extra tax on the slightly over 200,000 cohabitants that they do not have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215448	I think, sir. Kaare Dybvad must not use words such as nonsense and accusations of not being able to statistics in this way, for Mr. Kaare Dybvad obviously has trouble listening. There was nothing in what I said was bullshit. As far as taxation is concerned, our wish is • and now I repeat it, although it should not be necessary for people in cooperative housing associations to decide for themselves whether they want to convert their cooperative housing association into an owner-occupied housing association, and if they choose to do so, they will be subject to the tax regime of the owner-occupied dwellings, and that is something they have decided for themselves. It is our policy that once they have decided to be owner-occupied, they should also be taxed as owner-occupied dwellings.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215530	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215533	Now I heard the rapporteur say that it was virtually all of these buildings that were converted into cohabitation homes. Maybe it could take a fact check. It might be interesting, through some questions to this motion for a resolution, to clarify the extent to which the rental property that is being traded, among other things. in Copenhagen, is converted into co-operative housing. I have seen a figure that says that it is about one in seven trades, and there is a good deal going on in Copenhagen, so it goes up, of course. But I really think it might be appropriate to bring out the facts, i.e. whether only one in seven of the rental properties is really being traded into cooperative housing. Then it is probably true that there are certain areas in Copenhagen where it is significant that there will be a lot of cohabitation, and then we can see that there are new areas in Copenhagen, where there is also building new ones, and where there can also be some private rental. But I really think it has been interesting that there have been a number of bourgeois people who have said that it is positive that there are rental homes in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215638	I don't really know how to answer that. The fact that, according to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is every seventh trade, which results in it becoming a cooperative housing association, does not change the fact that there are fewer and fewer entries, which are private rentals, and more and more, which are cooperative housing associations, because if it is true what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen says that at each sale, one in seven will be converted into a cooperative housing association. That is a problem if you think that there should also be room for private rental in the old city centre in Copenhagen. That's what I've been talking about all along. I haven't talked about the new neighborhoods out at the South Harbour, where new residential areas are being built, or out at Ørestaden, I've talked about the old city centre in Copenhagen, where there are now no more private rentals. Again, sir. Kaare Dybvad and shake his head down there as if what I'm saying is wrong, but it's not, and it's not gonna get any more wrong with Mr. Dybvad. Kaare Dybvad sits and shakes his head all the time, so you can almost hear a bell ring from down there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215736	You can't, but here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215740	No, but if we were to learn more about figures, it might be nice enough to know whether it is the rapporteur who is right when the rapporteur says that it is virtually all deals with rental property that means that it becomes cooperative housing, or whether it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur who is right that it is only one in seven of them. We may be able to clarify this in the further process.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215802	I didn't say it's all trades. I have said that a great many trades are being carried out, where housing is being converted into cooperative housing associations through the obligation to offer. As a result, each time there is a rise smaller, which is rented out under the private rental regime, and one more rise, which is the cooperative housing association.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215822	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108215833	Thank you. B 10, draft parliamentary resolution to ensure compliance with the obligation to provide services, seems to me to have been very well examined by the respective rapporteurs today, so I do not want to start over, but as a starting point it is of course a very understandable proposal. The cooperative movement has created a large part of the solidarity and community we have in Denmark, and it is important, I think, to maintain cooperative housing in relation to having mixed, cheap, good, diverse cities. But as Mr. Kaare Dybvad also mentioned a little earlier, we have also seen a challenge in relation to the way the cooperative housing market develops and at least does so in some properties. That is why I think it might be sensible for our Minister for Housing, as she also said she would like to, to look at the legislation in the future, because it would be a little too bad if we started running for legislative changes on a case-by-case basis. So I think the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is right to ask some questions. It may be for statistics, in relation to what LA's rapporteur says, but it may also be in relation to other challenges and concerns that Enhedslisten's rapporteur has, and perhaps we should start there and then find out how to get back to the original and original idea of cooperative housing. So, unfortunately, the alternative cannot support the proposal either, but we look forward very much to discussing it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108220028	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108220038	I'll be brief. The background to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's and my motion for a resolution are, of course, that we want to ensure the obligation to offer when property is transferred to the other side, whether by sale, as a gift, by merger or by transfer of shares and shares in shares and cooperatives. It has unfortunately shown itself, and it is alleged that it has not been intended to be possible to deal with the otherwise very extensive obligation to offer. In connection with the sale of the 700 leases at Carlsberg, we have seen that there are clearly gaps in current legislation when the so-called minority shareholder model can be used. Those loopholes must be closed quickly, or as quickly as possible, so that we can avoid the abuse of an otherwise excellent law of obligation to offer for the benefit of the tenants, who may find themselves in that situation again. That is why we have also agreed to be co-sponsors of B 10.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108220200	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108220213	Thank you. It is a little special to be involved in making a proposal to ensure that the spirit of the present law is respected in the practice of society. In the Enhedslisten, we would very much like to help ensure that there continue to be cooperative housing, and we also think it is right that we should help to ensure that new cooperative housing associations can be set up. I think that is the best way to do it. It is quite possible that there are more problems than those mentioned in this resolution. We have lately, among other things. that new ways of making money have been found and that there is a seller of co-operative housing that has chosen to sell a rise individually with the requirement that a cooperative housing association be created afterwards, and this has happened at prices that are extremely high. So there is reason to keep an eye on the cohabitation area and look at what it is that needs to be adjusted. This motion for a resolution has been tabled because there was a prospect that 105 Members of Parliament would support it; three months later, it has to be said that there is a slight delay in getting support for speedy treatment. I think it is rather strange to hear the Minister refer to it as a short time limit for change. What we have been able to see in this Chamber about certain restrictions in the area of refugees and immigrants is that this has happened at a speed somewhat higher than the one proposed when it comes to this motion for a resolution. I also think there is reason to focus on this, because the housing trade is in progress, among other things. The Copenhagen area. So if the spirit of the law is not complied with, there is good reason to focus on it and make the necessary tightenings. The Minister is suggesting that there might be other parts of the law relating to the obligation to provide services which should be adjusted, and I will not deny that there may be more than this, but the motion for a resolution calls on the Minister, if there is a majority in favour, to come up with legislation to ensure that this hole is closed. This does not, of course, prevent the Minister from proposing other restrictions at the same time, and there is, in fact, nothing contrary to each other. Overall, I can see that the cooperative housing area needs a review. There are some very different issues. There are some cooperative housing associations which have problems with some old index loans which they have been required to set up when they were founded and which have now proved to be a costly solution for them because they, like them, are stuck with some very high costs that it is difficult to get out of. So we need to come up with some adjustments that will make it possible to change our expensive index loans. I also believe that there is a group of cooperative housing which has become financially disadvantaged because of poor advice and the like. In the case of some of these cooperatives, it could be a good solution to have them changed so that they came under a non-profit housing organization; that could perhaps be the solution for that group. Then there are also some cohabitation associations that have been in some filth and that have themselves been responsible for putting them into financial trouble.I don't think you should help them and then there may be some cohabitation associations that have a lot of difficulty in selling the homes. There are cooperatives in the countryside, where the situation is that there are dwellings that cannot be sold. I am aware that this is a reality that is far away from Copenhagen, but it does exist, and it is also something we might be able to remedy by looking at some changes. On behalf of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I would like to express my thanks for the debate. I think it is nice that we sometimes also have housing debates here in the Danish Parliament, and I think that is something that is not as visible now as it is in those periods when you have actually had a housing minister who had the residential area as its main area. So I look forward to this being followed up and that we will have solutions that can benefit the cooperatives in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108220614	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161108220625	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 9 November 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
