ParlaMint-DK_20161129130019	The meeting is open. Has everyone found the seats? We're just gonna wait a minute until it's finished and everybody's found the seats. That's when the meeting starts. Congratulations to the new government. Good luck with your work. I have received notification from the Prime Minister of the recent change of government. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). Following my opinion on the position and position of the Minister of State, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Commissioner of the First Degree of the Dannebrogorden, Minister of State, Minister of Culture and the Minister of the Geismar, Mr. Bertel Geismar Haarder, Grand Cross of the Order of Dannebrogorden, Minister of Transport and Building Pedersen Christian Lilleholt, Knight of the First Degree of the Dannebrogorden, Minister of Defence and Minister of Nordic Cooperation Peter Christensen, Rider of the Order of Dannebrogorden, and Minister of Employment Mr. Jørn Neergaard Larsen, Minister of Taxation Hjort Kristian Lauritzen and Minister of the Claus and Food Esben Ulla Larsen Lunde to suit them so far, Minister of Justice, Minister of Justice, and Social Affairs, and Minister of Justice. I would ask the President to inform Parliament accordingly. Lars Løkke Rasmussen From a member of the Folketing Mai Mercado, who has been on leave, I have been informed that from 28 November 2016 she will be able to rejoin the Parliament. Anders Johansson's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing have then ceased from that date. The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has informed me that, with effect from 1 January 2017, it has appointed a member of the Folketing, Henrik Sass Larsen (S), as a state auditor, instead of Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen, who resigns from the post. Today there is the following review: Jacob Mark (SF) and Trine Torp (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 25 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the requirements of private and contracted day-care institutions for the recruitment of teaching staff under contractual conditions). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130256	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130315	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 108 votes (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130350	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130403	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against 18 (EL, ALT and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130441	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130459	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For voting 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130531	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130550	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For voting 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions 0]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130620	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130637	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 14 (EL and ALT), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130709	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130720	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 101 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 8 (EL), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130801	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130812	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For voting 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions 0]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130852	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130904	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [on the other hand, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129130934	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131004	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131023	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (S, EL, ALT and SF), joined by a minority (RV). And a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 58 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (S, EL, ALT and SF), joined by a minority (RV). And a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1 and 4, replaced and acceded by the same minority, lapsed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131157	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131227	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131248	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-44, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? The proposal is adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131310	I would point out that the amendments have been tabled. 5-16 of 28.11.2016 outside the tax minister's report, that is not stated on the agenda. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131350	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5 and 6, outside the report by the Minister for Taxation, on Amendments Nos. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 7-8, outside the report by the Minister for Taxation, on Amendment No. Amendment No 2 was accepted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 10-13, outside the report by the Minister for Taxation, on Amendment No. Amendment No 3 was accepted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 14-15, outside the report by the Minister for Taxation, on Amendment No. 4 or on Amendment No 4, which was adopted by the Committee, or Amendment No 4, which was adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 16, outside the report by the tax minister? The proposals have been adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131443	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131503	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 8 (EL), against 95 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 6 (ALT) ]. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2, by a minority (ALT) and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 6 (ALT), against 92 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 8 (EL). The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131613	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131627	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a majority (S, V, LA, RV and KF), joined by a minority, that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The bill referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Daily Offers Act]. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (EL), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the amendment 19 (EL, ALT and RV) voted against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. Four, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131753	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131814	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131833	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129131849	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL, ALT and SF) and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the amendment 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, 2, 4 and 7, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL, ALT and SF) and voting is possible. Has everyone voted? No, I guess. Now everyone has voted. The vote will end. For the amendment 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 of a minority (EL, ALT and SF) and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the amendment 19 (EL, ALT and SF) voted against 92 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (EL, SF and ALT) and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the amendment 19 (EL, ALT and SF) voted against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We are about to move to a first reading, so there must be quiet in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-DK_20161129132233	The debate is open. Here you go, sir. Male Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129132313	Thank you. With Bill No. The purpose of L 65 and L 66 is to ensure that information on buildings, buildings, their location and their owners is recorded in the relevant basic data registers in such a way that there is consistency and secure identification across the registers in the real estate area in connection with the matrix, the Building and Housing Register, the Land Register and a new ownership register. Similarly, the objective of L 66 is to ensure that public data on road names and addresses are recorded uniformly and made freely available so that they can create greater coherence in the public digital administration. The proposal contributes to a more efficient public sector, faster response to police and preparedness, and growth and innovation in enterprises. Social democracy agrees with the intentions of the legislative proposals. It is important that in future we have a safe and effective record of relevant basic data. With everything else that can be done on the fine path of digitalisation, we must of course also go down this road. We also hope that the pitfalls experienced in the past will be observed when we have wanted perhaps too rapid digitalisation. However, as I said, the Social Democrats are in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129132435	Thank you. Then we have to go to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Jan Rytkjær Callesen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129132444	The draft law under consideration here aims to implement a partial agreement in the joint public digitalisation strategy. The agreement has been concluded between the National Association of Municipalities and the Government and specifically means that the way in which property is registered in the various public registers is simplified. It is a fact that today there are a number of different real estate registers, each of which serves its own purpose. The disadvantage is that a difference is recorded and therefore there is a not insignificant risk of the same property being recorded in different registers. This problem is being addressed by the partial agreement. In addition, the draft law aims to increase the digitisation of the case between the authorities in connection with the registrations in the real estate field. One of the new initiatives in the bill is that the so-called BFE number is introduced. The BFE number will be a unique identification number designed to facilitate the communication of buildings to all parties involved in property. In the Danish People's Party, we think it makes sense to make the improvements to property registration that the bill proposes, just as we think it is a good idea for public authorities to use digitalised communication more effectively in the process. Against this background, we support the bill. That was L 65. Then I have a statement about L 66. The draft law L 66 contains a further implementation of the basic data programme, this time of Part Agreement 2, which is about addresses. The bill gives Denmark a proper address law where all rules and requirements for addressing and signage are established and a proper address register is created. As I said, the draft law here is the execution of an agreement concluded between the National Association of Municipalities and the Government. The aim of the agreement is to ensure a uniform registration of addresses in order to improve the coherence and efficiency of public administration and also to ensure rapid police and emergency response. As mentioned above, a Danish address register is created as something new. It is intended to serve as a main source of road names and addresses where all the addresses of the country are collected in one register. In advance, we would like to know more about the draft law, and in this context I have written down three points: what about secret addresses? How much is this? And does this have anything to do with our property assessments? So we will be asking questions about the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129132754	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129132802	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I welcome the fact that the draft law puts a great deal of bureaucracy to an end. This makes property registration and property management considerably more efficient. The collection and maintenance of the relevant data in this area will be compiled in one place, preventing copy registration and double work for public authorities. It's needed. In addition, the efficiency of the proposal provides a great deal of proven savings, and in order to realise the great savings and the considerable efficiency it requires, of course, that the legislative proposal be implemented, which is why, of course, the Left votes in favour of L 65. Like the previous proposal, L 66 ensures a more efficient public sector. This is done by freely making road names and addresses available to all. This simplification and debureaucratisation will benefit all parties. The public sector will, among other things, be involved. experience reduced time for manual input of address information, and companies will experience improved opportunities for logistics optimization, navigation optimization, etc. At a time when bureaucracy is unfortunately growing, we need to simplify where we can. That is why the Left welcomes the fact that this proposal is also coming, and in this respect, of course, the Left will also support L 66.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129132941	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129132952	It seems that the consultation answers in L 65 have been listened to, and we are pleased with that. It appears that the KL's hearing response and also the objections of the Colonial League have been listened to. And if it is the case that the Colony Association is not entirely satisfied with the answers about the fees that have been put in here, then I think they should contact us again so that we can see whether this is the right level we are at. I can briefly state that Enhedslisten supports both legislative proposals
ParlaMint-DK_20161129133022	Thank you. The next one is sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129133037	We think it may be quite difficult to object to information on buildings and buildings etc. In the future, only one place should be collected, recorded and maintained, because of course the different authorities re-use each other's data. Based on this proposal, property data will be logically and unequivocally linked, which is obviously a crucial prerequisite for more efficient operation. In the private sector, it appears that financial institutions, mortgages, real estate agents, lawyers, etc. will be resolved through fewer manual workflows, but we also know that large systems with many actors do not always go smoothly, and this will probably not happen here, even though the direction is quite obvious. And we also see that one lectured on running problems in other major systems.I will not mention examples.We know them all wisely choose to have a running-in phase in a parallel system over a year's time. So let us cross our fingers and hope that we have learned that implementation is always the difficult phase, so that we can also gain economies of scale from this so-called basic data programme. The coherent infrastructure, with regard to the data base for road names and addresses and place names that are made freely available, will also be essential for improving the efficiency of the area. So with these words, we can support the two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129133216	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129133225	Redundans, i.e. double registration and missing standards, is a source of great frustration in public and probably private systems. That is why we are very pleased with this proposal, L 65, and can support it. We can also support L 66, which provides better access to public address data. It is also in our spirit of greater transparency and the possibility of using the common data. The alternative therefore supports both proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129133257	Thank you. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129133305	To be brief, I can say that the Radical Left also supports these two legislative proposals. As Mr. Villum Christensen from the Liberal Alliance said that it is a little difficult to be against taking different databases and adding them to one, so that you only have to maintain and create database once instead of several times. It will certainly make it possible to spend the money most sensibly and optimally in the public sector. We can only support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129133333	Thank you. This is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129133341	Thank you. SF supports both proposals L 65 and L 66. We do so for the reasons mentioned earlier. At the same time, I would like to congratulate the Minister for listening to the KL and the Colonial League during the process. I think this is crucial, because it means that people feel that when they send their hearing answer, they are being listened. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129133401	Thank you. Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservatives, is not present. Then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129133416	Thank you to the President and also to the rapporteurs for their comments on the legislative proposals and for their very, very broad support. I listened that all the parties were able to support the legislative proposals. These legislative proposals are to be seen in the light of the 2012 agreement on the Joint Public Digitalisation Strategy. In the government, we are constantly working on improving the efficiency of the public sector, including: through better data and digitalisation, which makes it possible to make workflows more efficient. In 2016, we have agreed with KL and Danske Regions on a new public digitalisation strategy to continue the efforts of recent years in this field. In this way, the government is further developing the efficiency initiatives underlying these two legislative proposals. The draft law on the efficiency of property registration and management strengthens the effective use of public property data. This is done by ensuring correct basic data collected and maintained in one place and used by all, instead of the public authorities having their own copy records. Public property data shall be displayed via the common public data distributor, which is a data distribution solution for all basic data developed under the basic data programme. The draft law will thus make it easier for both public and private actors to use public property data. With the bill, we are proposing that six different laws be amended. The common denominator of these changes is to ensure that a property can be uniquely and safely identified across all public real estate registers. The unique identification of buildings is a prerequisite for better communication between the systems. In addition, the proposal will result in changes and increased digitisation of cooperation between authorities on registrations in the field of property. Overall, this bill will help to ensure simpler access to property information for businesses, including the financial sector. The bill on addresses should also support a more efficient public sector, faster response to police and preparedness, and growth and innovation in companies. The draft law makes clear and secure addresses freely available to users in the public sector in order to promote digital management. Better address data can be vital in emergency situations where it is essential that police and ambulances can arrive as soon as possible. Addresses are also made available to the private sector and can contribute to the competitiveness, growth and innovation of businesses, for example. in the form of new innovative solutions based on address data, e.g. improved logistics and navigation systems. I welcome the interest in the legislative proposals that have been expressed here today and I look forward to continuing discussions on the individual elements of the legislative proposals in committee. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129133725	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129133740	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129133808	Thank you. Today we are discussing one of the expirys of the broad agreement reached a week and a half ago on the abolition of the PSO tax. I think it is appropriate to discuss something as fundamental in Danish energy and climate policy as the financing we have had so far, to say a few words about why we thought it was worth joining this agreement, but also about what it is that we should be careful and protect. Because there is no doubt that the green transition we have made in Denmark has brought us very good for climate and environment, it has brought us a large share of renewable energy, it has provided us with many jobs, many export earnings, and when you make major changes in this area, it is of course essential and essential that you also take care of the good elements and ensure that we also want a strong green transition in the future. That is why the Social Democrats also agreed to the discussions on a new and wiser way of financing the green transition with a requirement that we should not cut down on the green ambitions, that we should not put Denmark back, that we should not cancel, for example, the wind turbine projects that had already been offered and where the competitions were held and where we would thereby create extremely much uncertainty for the investors on which we are so dependent in the future. So we made sure that the wind turbine projects that the government otherwise wanted to cancel were not cancelled, and we are pleased with that. We would also like to ensure that it was fair financing of the bill. Because when you remove the PRS from our own electricity bill, it is of course beneficial to all of us, consumers and businesses, and therefore it is of course also important to say who has to pay the bill. There, in our view, the government had set up too much funding, where the green cheque, that is, the lowest income, the pensioners, ended up having to pay the whole bill. We are glad that we could get it right, that we could get pensioners and early retirement pensioners off cutting and that the contribution from the green cheque in general was reduced. If we make the flow cheaper, it is good for electrification, so there are also some steps that point forward in relation to the green transition. We need to use the wind turbine current we have more of in the future better, and we are pleased about that, but it is clear that the increased CO2 will also have to be thought of and dealt with, which is why we are pleased that it is also part of the agreement that there will be a climate pool that we will then have to implement together in order to address some of the difficult challenges in the climate area. Specifically, I would like to say to some of the proposals here that it is clear that we are technically adopting the phasing-out of the PSO. We are adopting the lifting of the VE to the process, that is to say the support given to the business community, so as to allow them to pay for this conversion. We have an end to what is called the Forskel programme, which is an energy technology research programme and which has previously been PRS funded. Now it has to be financed and transferred to the EUDP according to the agreement. That is where I think it is important that we should also get an indication today that this is not only true for 2017, as there are very many places, but that it is not, in general terms, a reduction and thus a retention of the energy technology research activities that we have had. That is why, of course, I would like to hear the Minister say that it, what is to be said, re-discounted, i.e. that it should be transferred to the Finance Act, is, of course, something that we must ensure in the future, in relation to that money being spent on research. Then there are also some things about balancing and amending the Electricity Safety Act. One of these is that we must not overcompensate according to EU rules, some of which is purely technical in that it can no longer be charged on the basis of the previous legal basis. Basically, we support this proposal. We are pleased that we have reached an agreement that guarantees green ambitions, and we are pleased that we have reached an agreement in which the funding, that is to say, to pay the bill for this change, not only lands with the lowest paid and with pensioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134237	There are a few brief comments, so the rapporteur must stay here. It's first, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134247	Thank you. I think it is essential to focus on what laws are adopted and what effects they have. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether this phasing-out of the PSO does not lead to worse conditions in terms of investing in energy savings, because the flow is now becoming cheaper; that is to say, we see here that there is competition in relation to what the money is to be spent on. Investing in a new heat pump and new thermostats is the less attractive when you get a lower electricity bill. It will thus be the sensible energy savings which cannot be as economically justified as they are at present. Does the rapporteur not agree that there is a major disadvantage in distorting it so that it can pay less with energy savings than with the loose flow?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134345	It is clear that when you make the electricity bill cheaper, you encourage more electricity to be used, and that actually has some green benefits, because we also need electrification of our society, of our energy system. When we have much more wind power, we also need more power. I do not think the rapporteur and I will disagree on that. But it is so true what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, namely that you then have some other challenges. How, then, can we ensure that we still have energy savings? How do you ensure that there may also be better differentiation in the future, so that energy savings are not only about saving kilowatt hours, but also about saving kilowatt hours that are most damaging to the climate? In this way we will have both a differentiation in terms of ensuring energy savings in general. We will then have to do this by means of a number of other handles and perhaps we will also begin to differentiate between the energy savings on wind power and the energy savings that might come by phasing out some fossil fuel. So if we can make a better arrangement for it, and I think we have a common ambition for that, we would be happy to support it being more precise.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134453	Sir. Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134455	That is certainly not exactly in the current agreement. I would like to go over to the funding where, I do not know if we can say in the current energy conciliation, but at least in the energy conciliation of 2012 it says that the agreement must be implemented cost-effectively and with regard to consumers and the competitiveness of companies. Now we can see a new agreement which the Social Democrats subscribe to, where there are 3 billion. kr., which industry would otherwise have to pay, which is passed on to ordinary consumers, and where the rapporteur refers to the fact that funding is done wisely and that it is more equitable funding. Can the rapporteur not describe a little more in detail how it is fair for ordinary consumers to have to pay the entire bill paid by businesses in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134536	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134538	With this arrangement, we're all going to get a lower electricity bill. This applies to consumers, and that applies to business. We have thus supported the idea that the economy should have a lower electricity bill, because we also think it is good for production jobs. When I say that it was important for us, for the Social Democratic Party, when we entered this negotiating room, to ensure more socially fair funding, it was very much about the government's having proposed that the bill should be paid exclusively by the lowest-paid and pensioners, by means of the green cheque that paid it all. That is where we have made fairer funding by releasing the lowest income. But of course it is clear that when you make a lightening of the electricity bill, it also benefits the business community. We have talked in the past about the fact that VE to process helps to pay part of the bill, but that is something we are going into, both because we want to protect industrial and production jobs, and because we actually think it is sensible to have an electrification and then we have corrected the proposal for financing that the government had put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134639	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134644	Thank you. There has been a lot of talk about, especially in the media, that this PSO scheme that we have in Denmark should be illegal. I would just like to hear whether the rapporteur can confirm that it is no more illegal than that it could have been adjusted, as other countries have done, and thus be an entirely legal arrangement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134709	It is true that the system we had put together was overruled and thus illegal, but the rapporteur is also quite right that it is not illegal to have a PSO system, and that is why the rapporteur has not heard me or anyone else from the Social Democratic Party say that this was why we had to make exactly this solution. When we have chosen to say that it was sensible to do away with the PSO as it was financed, it was, of course, very much about encouraging electrification, that we would like to ensure a lower electricity bill, because it is a step on the road to the green transition that we would also like to see. However, the rapporteur is quite right that, when the government has presented it a little square, as if we had to abolish the PSP in all its forms, it has not been covered in relation to the European Union at least. It has been a political wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134802	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134804	Thank you. Then there has also been a lot of talk about how insanely expensive PSO is on the electricity bill. There I just find it a little thought-provoking that when you look at how the electricity price is screwed up, the one that the consumer is experiencing, the PSO is 10 per cent, while there is 39 per cent. other charges. Wouldn't it have been smart rather than ruining this whole well-functioning scheme in my eyes, so instead of looking at some of the other charges and having turned them down targeted to what we want, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134847	We've been trying to figure out how to screw up some of these things, so for example. has helped competitive companies. I am a little uncertain as to how I am going to attack it also in relation to what Enhedslisten's rapporteur talked about before, because if we want to turn down taxes in general, we have the same problem, namely that it encourages electrification, but it also encourages more power. I am still waiting for the government to present the tax subsidy analysis and look forward very much to having a discussion on whether we can change the taxes so that they do not stand in the way but, on the contrary, support the green transition. I also believe that with a little political will it can be done more precisely than that it should apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134927	There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129134937	Thank you. The bill here translates the agreement recently reached by almost all of the Danish Parliament's parties, including the Danish People's Party, on the abolition of the PSO system. In the Danish People's Party, we are pleased with the agreement, because it is a good solution to the problem that arose when the European Commission declared the existing regime to be contrary to the Treaty. As a starting point, we do not believe that the Commission should interfere with internal Danish conditions and override a system which has been democratically adopted in the Folketing, but in the specific case it has been positive because the Commission's failure gave rise to consideration of the Danish system for financing support for renewable energy sources more fundamentally. The reflections have led to the solution that we are discussing today, the so-called financial law solution. In the Danish People's Party, we are pleased that this solution has been chosen precisely because with the financial law solution, financing of renewable energy will be done in the same way as all other public expenditures must be based on a priority. It has otherwise been the case with the current PSP system that the politicians in the energy society first decided which aid schemes and projects would be implemented and then printed out a bill on which the PRS rate was fixed. There was thus no fixed budget, but only a tax rate that was adjusted as expenditure increased due to political decisions. Now take the spoon in the other hand. In future, every new initiative in the field of green energy must be measured against all other public expenditure and new initiatives. Thus renewable energy is equated with all other public spending areas, and the Danish People's Party supports this. With the abolition of the PSO rate, electricity prices will fall considerably both for business and for the ordinary Dane. This means better competitiveness for Danish production industries and thus more jobs, and for the Danes this means that the electricity bill will fall by about 10%. This is a good development, because it also means that the land is fertilised to ensure that a larger proportion of the surplus production of electricity produced in Denmark today can be used in this country instead of being exported at very low prices. We in the Danish People's Party welcome the agreement that has been reached, and I can therefore say that we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135143	Thank you. There's a comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135146	There has been a long process in which the Danish People's Party has, at least in part, taken the view that the part that business has paid so far should not be passed on exclusively to ordinary employees, pensioners and others. Now the Danish People's Party has ended up with an agreement in which it is in fact the whole amount paid by the business community so far, which is passed on to ordinary employees, where they have then arrived to free pensioners as a group. I think it is a pity that the Danish People's Party did not want to help ensure that there could be a PSO agreement that was socially balanced. I think that the system we have had so far, where all electricity consumers have helped to pay for the green changeover, has been a good one, and I am sure that it could have been adjusted so that it would have been reasonable. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he thinks it is reasonable that the lowest-paid should now lose their green cheques.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135251	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135253	I do not entirely agree with the way in which Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur presents things. It is the case that we are today taking a position on a legislative proposal which, first and foremost, phases in and removes the PRS scheme, and the other part, i.e. the funding afterwards, must be based on the tax minister and the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135310	In view of the fact that we have now come to the conclusion that the present system is to be abolished, it is in the cards of the recent agreement that that is what will happen afterwards. So I think it is a pity that the rapporteur will not stand by the fact that there is an agreement here, which is far more antisocial than the previous agreement, with the burden-sharing of the PSO. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that it is ordinary employees who are going to pay the full bill for sustainable change in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135346	Well, I hear an almost identical repetition of the rapporteur's first question, and I just have to rely on two stages. One phase is to remove the PSO system, and that is what we are doing here. The next phase will take place under a different heading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135401	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135404	Thank you. Will the rapporteur not agree with me, as we have been able to read from the Climate Council, that when we lower the electricity price as a result of this, we will have an increase in CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135424	If the question was whether I agree with it, I can answer that I myself stumbled over that particular passage. And I must confess with all the layman attitude I can appear with here that I still don't understand it. I do not deny that that is the conclusion, but I do not understand that the fact that electricity prices are being reduced per year is being reduced. automatic leads to increased consumption. So I simply do not think I am able to answer the question satisfactorily.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135451	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135453	Okay. I don't know the model calculations behind it either, but I'm leaning on the Climate Council's analysis, and they're experts in this area. They say that there is a significantly increased emissions of 3 million. This is something and in the wrong direction in relation to the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135513	I did not hear whether it was a question, but I can only say that both the rapporteur of the Alternative and the undersigned do not understand the model behind which leads to these figures. I simply believe that my answer to the questioner will be inexhaustible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135528	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135536	Thank you for that, President. It is a great pleasure to stand on the platform today and finally translate L 90, for which we have worked and burned for a long time. After all, we have reached a broad political agreement on phasing out the PSO tax, and this is a fantastic idea and a good approach, because it ensures that we take one of the greatest green advances in recent times, while at the same time saving private households on electricity bills. In particular, the economy saves on the electricity bill. The production companies that we are struggling to maintain in the country will suddenly have a competitive electricity price. We go from being very average in electricity prices in Denmark to actually becoming the EU's third cheapest electricity country. So it is a great day that with this proposal we ensure green optimism and that growth and green conversion can go hand in hand, which is why the Left naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135648	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135649	Thank you. Indeed, as with the previous rapporteur, I would like to know whether the rapporteur cannot accept the analysis of the Climate Council, which says that this will, of course, give rise to a significantly increased CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135710-2	Not a significantly increased CO2 but it is clear that when you create as many jobs as this government does, it will also give a print, and whether you produce a chair or for what purpose you now do things, well then there will be some kind of print. There will be no significant increase, but there will be a less flattening of our CO2 This happens every time growth packages are made, and it is clear that it is getting a little bigger when we make such ambitious growth packages as we do in the current government. What is just worth noting is that the earth does not care where CO2 What we ensure with the rapid green transition that we are doing in Denmark is that the production companies that have alternatively placed themselves in Poland or elsewhere will have derived significantly more. So for the sake of the planet, Denmark is by far the best place to produce, even if it is a burden on our climate accounting. So, overall, it's a gift to our mother land.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135819	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135820	Does the rapporteur feel convinced that what is being put in place, in other words a financial regulation, will be legal in relation to the EU's competition requirements?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135837	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135839	The rapporteur calls this a green step forward, but, in other words, if electricity is made cheaper and it is clear that there will be an increase in electricity consumption as a result of it, and renewable energy cannot be developed and expanded at the same rate, so that electricity consumption is increased, then there will be an increase in CO2 It is clear that there is no reason to avoid it. I would like to hear from the rapporteur, if it is not true, that this draft law is distorting the balance between making it worthwhile and implementing energy savings. In other words, it is not so much worthwhile for business to achieve energy savings when the flow has become so cheap. And that is why, in the current system, where electricity consumption has been subject to taxes, including for the majority of businesses, there has been a greater incentive to implement sensible energy savings, which can help to strengthen the competitiveness of businesses in relation to other companies abroad that cannot find ways of minimising their electricity consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129135940	One simply cannot measure Denmark's climate ambitions on CO2 So it is a misunderstanding if one now believes that one should measure the success rate of the green transition alone on CO2 Let us now say that we come in the situation that a data centre has to be set up in Denmark again. What will then happen is that we will have a significantly increased consumption of electricity. Is that good or bad? Well, it doesn't really matter, since it's renewable energy. And by 2020 we have an expectation that the consumption of renewable energy by Danes is approx. 80% of the energy they use. That is why it is not negative, since more power is being used, on the contrary. It is an expression that the wheels are being set in motion and that something is happening. So you simply cannot measure our climate ambitions on CO2 alone but it is a success when more electricity is used. I do not have the same concern for energy savings as the rapporteur probably does, because what is important to me is that we get increased with renewable energy. Then you don't have to be so careful if you remember to turn off the lights.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129140050	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129140051	Now there have been many different models in play. For example: we could opt for a German solution, opening up our market slightly to the neighbouring countries to which we have electricity links. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he is aware that tomorrow there will be an EU directive on renewable energy, which is expected to be put forward here, and where it appears that the Commission is planning to make it compulsory for Member States to open their electricity support systems to other EU Member States. Because, if that is true, we are in the situation where the government has been given state funding for our electricity system, and afterwards the European Union comes along and demands the solution we could have chosen instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129140132	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129140133	I'm not familiar with that. But I can just say so much that the German PSO model is not an example to me. I can guarantee you that. What we see in Germany in the PSO area, I do not think should be a model for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129140150	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129140204	After all, the starting point is a good system, a PSO system that has been approved by the European Union, which we have had for many years, and which has worked in a way, so that all electricity consumers, both ordinary households and business, have helped to pay for the green transition that we have come so far with in Denmark. Then there have been some adjustments concerning some growth packages and a proposal, L 160, this spring, which downgraded the price that the industry should contribute. And then it has been possible to see that some tried to talk that it was a very expensive system. There we have therefore found at the very end that, compared to the conclusion of the energy agreement, the total energy costs for the Danish population and for the business community are below what was expected. That was among other things. Because of the cheap offshore wind turbines that we are about to realise. So all this talking, it's a bad system and so on, and it's something that's expensive, isn't really right with the actions we've seen at the very end. What we have experienced is also an agreement that is contrary to the part of the PSO that is in the energy conciliation. The energy agreement on the financing of the Energy Policy Initiative agreement makes it very clear how it is to be dealt with, and so it says that it is based on the PRS system. And it is based on the fact that the agreement must be implemented cost-effectively with regard to consumers and the competitiveness of companies. It has to be said that what we have come up with now with the agreement that has been reached is that you take the whole bill and pass it on to the consumer, and then you free some pensioners. We think it is an antisocial agreement that has been made lately. What is also contained in the current energy agreement is that it is the PSO system that applies when it comes to financing these things. That is why I find it disgraceful that there has been a process in which a few parties have been excluded and have not been called to the meetings that have taken place since the summer holidays. The Enhedslisten is part of the energy settlement, and we are because there are some good elements in what we want to be involved in implementing. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister is aware that tomorrow there will be an EU directive on renewable energy, which states that the Commission is planning to make it compulsory for Member States to open their support systems to electricity from other EU Member States. If that is the case, then it is a compulsory German solution which is being launched by the European Commission and which can solve the problem we have with the PSO and where we need to adjust a little. It is sometimes said that the Danish PSO system is illegal. What we were presented with in some notes when we had debates on the other side of the summer holiday was, among other things, the one that was presented to us. a note stating that the Danish renewable energy support model, the PSO system, is considered by the European Commission to be in breach of Article 30 of the TFEU and Article 110 of the TFEU on discriminatory duties and charges. In other words, it was where we thought Yes, it is possible that it should be adjusted, and we have been perfectly prepared to enter into agreements on this in the Enhedslisten as well. What we now have the prospect of with the agreement that has been reached is state-owned electricity production which can distort competition in relation to energy-saving measures. We find this alarming, because it might well end up with a company in Denmark that could bring a case because the companies that produce energy-saving pumps and thermostats will have a worse competitive situation when electricity becomes cheaper with the agreement that has been made. We think it is a real pity that an agreement has been reached whereby the entire bill for sustainable conversion is passed on to ordinary employees minus to a certain extent some pensioners. The fact that the business community has contributed so far to paying for our sustainable conversion has thus far been an advantage: everyone in Denmark has helped to pay for more wind turbines. I think it's a great shame that you've ended up with such a bad deal. One could easily have made adjustments to the Danish solution inspired by what one does in other countries, for example. Germany, and have come up with something that was socially much more balanced than what we can now experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129140702	Thanks to Enhedslisten. Listeners are very welcome, and you can photograph from the gallery, but it is not very good to use the flash, because it is quite annoying. Thank you. Wait a minute, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, I need to see if there's a question. Yes, there is a question from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129140718	Thank you. I have a question for the rapporteur. For the rapporteur says from the platform that it is only the citizens of Denmark who will pay for the abolition of the PSO tax, and I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether the business community is not at all contributing to the abolition of the PSO. And if the rapporteur is about to say 'yes', I would like to ask: to what extent? How much are we talking about in crowns and ears in business support schemes and other things that are being abolished, in order to finance precisely the PSO solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129140747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129140749	After all, what business is paying now must be taken as a starting point and, as far as I know, there is a prospect that business will pay at least 3 billion in future. kr. less than what is now paid into the PRS. On a number of issues, we have also focused on what this is actually for a development that has been since 2012, and it has to be said that, with the reductions in energy spending that have been implemented for business and for private individuals at the present time, compared to the conclusion of the energy conciliation, the industry has experienced the biggest fall because it has been possible to compensate them in the past. So I cannot at all understand why SF is included in an agreement to pass the entire bill on to ordinary employees, instead of finding a model where you could just have adjusted a little on the PSO solution so that business could have continued to pay for the sustainable transition, which I think is so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129140845	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129140847	There should be no doubt that SF would have liked to have seen a German PESO solution, which I can also hear that Enhedslisten had. But after all, both Enhedslisten and SF have helped to abolish a tax on energy in the past, namely the security of supply tax. So it's happened in the past, and this model reminds us exactly of the model we've seen in the past. So I cannot understand why Enhedslisten now thinks there is a problem. Because this agreement also provides for business to pay 2 billion. kr. • the abolition of aid schemes. Does Søren Egge Rasmussen therefore not recognise that business also contributes to the financing of the solution to the PSO problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129140929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129140930	There were parts of the energy conciliation where the business community had some support opportunities, where, if we had been called for negotiations, we had also voted for the elimination of the RE for the process. We think that would be fair. But I do not think that abolishing it makes it possible to say that business is making a hard contribution to this. After all, we need to focus on who is going to pay forward, and it is ordinary employees who are going to pay for the sustainable transformation. And I fear that this will happen at a lower level, in other words that we will have a less ambitious climate policy forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141008	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141015	After all, it is soon Christmas, at least according to the calendar, and since the abolition of the PSO has long been on the Liberal Alliance's wish list, I would like to take the liberty of considering that a broad political agreement has now been reached on the phasing-out of the PSO scheme towards 2022, as a kind of Christmas present for all Danes. Thus, the Liberal Alliance, as the only party, also honours a clear election promise and at the same time ensures that the Danes are allowed to keep more of their own money themselves. The total calculation will be that the industry will have a reduction in the electricity bill of approx. 25 per cent, which leads to significantly improved competitiveness, and in the case of households, the agreement facilitates the electricity bill of approx. 10% Thus all Danes also get more money between their hands every month. The abolition of the PRS tax means, overall, that the Danes and companies will not be able to pay a greater amount of billions in taxes, and we can now continue the green transition in a more efficient way, where the consideration of Danish jobs and competitiveness goes hand in hand with respect for the environment and climate. The Danish example is only worth following for other countries if the conversion is cost-effective and supports growth, competitiveness and employment. Climate action must create jobs and not the opposite, to quote a relatively new publication such as this, and the Liberal Alliance thus supports the government's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141203	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141206	Thank you. I just wanted to know whether the rapporteur feels sure that the new agreement, which will replace where the money comes from the Finance Act, will not be a kind of state aid, which I know the rapporteur's party is opposed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141228	I feel quite confident that the Minister and the Ministry are all the more in relation to having it in place, including in relation to the European Union. I think that is what the questioner is referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141244	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141244-2	Yeah, but it's like... Professor Hvelplund of Aalborg University, professor of energy planning, who has been out saying that what is being replaced here may in fact be a distortion of the market, so that we can get the European Union back on its back, simply because it is state aid. Does that not concern the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141305	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141306	I have not read the relevant reference to which the honourable Member refers, but again I would like to say that I feel absolutely certain and confident that the Ministry has the rules in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141322	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141323	Yes, I am sitting here with the same feeling as when we had the first reading of the Fertilizer Act, which, like the Minister, would be given the power to reduce nitrogen standards. It was said that one and the third and the other directives could be in conflict with the European Union and oh, it was all good and pink, and so it ends up with a conflict with the European Union. That is why I think it is too simplistic simply to say that we are confident that it is the right thing to do that is on the way to being adopted. I very much doubt whether this is something that will lead us to have a bigger case in the European Union, because with this there is a majority in favour of creating a state-funded infrastructure extension which I can well doubt will be legal, including from what has been read and written lately. I have listened to the Liberal Alliance declare this to be the biggest business tax relief in Danish history. Does the rapporteur agree that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141429	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141430	Whether it's the greatest of Danish history, I can't be a hundred percent sure, as well I don't know the statistics. On the first matter, which the questioner refers to in relation to nitrogen, I certainly believe that the wording is that, and it is indeed the case that there is an understanding between the government and the Commission. And then I only regret that the Enhedslisten questioner has no more faith in the state administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141504	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141506	My confidence in the administration has then diminished on top of the agricultural package and what has so far been achieved about it. Therefore, it is of course interesting to know what is of communication with the European Commission. That is also why the Alternative and Enhedslisten have called for consultations where we have the opportunity to discuss it a little deeper than we can at first reading in the Parliamentary Assembly. And that is where I very much hope that we can go into detail as to whether what you are going into here could be something that is contrary to the European Union. In fact, I think that this is a serious dilemma.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141538	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141539	Yeah, that's exactly what you've been talking about in this context. I would also like to look forward to this consultation. I am a little unsure whether the questioner is referring to consultation with the Minister for the Environment and Food or with the Minister for Energy and Climate in this context, but I will look forward to the consultation in any case.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141600	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141603	We know, of course, that the Liberal Alliance has long wanted to abolish the PSO, and I would just like to ask whether it has also been the view of the Liberal Alliance that it should be replaced by other sources of funding, in other words raising some other taxes, as well as closing the gap. Is that how you get it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141627	I think the Social Democrat questioner is also aware that the Liberal Alliance generally does not like raising neither taxes nor taxes. However, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we have had a wish here, one might say, fulfilled, which has been on our wish list for a very, very long time. And there is, it might be said, a complex financing of the abolition of the PSO system, which we have agreed in a broad political agreement to enter into.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141659	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141702	In other words, the tax increases that lie in this have the support of the Liberal Alliance and are therefore also an expression of what you want, because you want to finance the green transition. Or how is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141712-2	After all, this is a bottom-up task in that, as we have also heard previous rapporteurs mention, the PSP has actually been overruled by the European Union. That is why it was a bottom-up task and the funding had to be found. We have then chosen to enter into this broad political agreement, because we really wanted to abolish the PSO, where a partial element, as the questioner rightly points out, is to raise, among other things. The bottom treasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141742	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141756	With the abolition of the PSO, we are removing the long-term economic basis for the green transition. According to the Climate Council, the abolition of the PSO will increase the Danish climate load by 3.1 million. t CO 2 In the comments to the bill is only 11 lines on the environmental impact...
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141820	Wait a minute. It has been asked that you do not stand in the gallery and that you do not use a flash. Please comply with this. Thank you. Sorry, we're moving on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129141829	In the comments to the bill, only 11 lines are on the environmental impact. There is no indication of how much CO2 I find deeply regrettable. When a majority in the Folketing has now decided to increase the climate load, at least I think we should do so with open eyes. In relation to the draft law itself, L 90, I also find it regrettable that the consultation period has been so short. The hearing material was issued on Friday 18 November at 12:00 a.m. 17.22 with the deadline for replying on Wednesday, 23 November, at 7.30 p.m. 12.00. Several complaints about this very short period of time, among others. Danish Gas Distribution, Denmark's Conservation Association and Greenpeace. Greenpeace has actually written that, because of an entirely unacceptable short consultation period of two working days, they will refrain from making detailed comments on the proposal itself. This process is highly questionable in a bill that is so fundamental in its changes to our financing of the expansion of renewable energy in Denmark. It was a little bit about the process. In relation to the substance of the bill, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten and I convened the Minister in consultation next Wednesday. We have done so because we want answers to the question as to whether the PSO agreement is potentially contrary to EU law, as the agreement involves illegal State aid. Several researchers have considered that the agreement reached by the Government, S, DF, LA, RV, SF and K could be more contrary to the Treaty than the previous arrangement, which only had to be adjusted before it met EU requirements. The problem with the system we are discussing today is that it constitutes a State subsidy for electricity generation which distorts competition between the supply and saving side. If a Danish company complains about the scheme to the EU competition authorities, it is according to e.g. Frede Hvelplund, professor of energy planning, is not unlikely that they will be able to win the case. In addition, we see the increased climate impact that the PSO abolition will cause, which is in direct violation of the Paris Agreement's commitment that the countries' climate action should be increasing over time. What is called no backsliding and that it is not only reductions that need to be greater, but also efforts that are called the success. This is Article 3 of the Paris Agreement. From 2021, the expansion of renewable energy will be subject to uncertain negotiations on how much is to be allocated year-to-year, because when the PRS is transferred to the Finance Act, we run the risk of renegotiating it every year, thereby making the funding uncertain. If investors experience an uncertain market, it will increase the cost of the green transition. Uncertainty is not free, and what does business really have to pay? We were pleased with the PSO because it is based on the sound principle that the polluter pays. The abolition of the PRS tax will lead to uncertainty about the financing of the green conversion and to the polluter-pays principle. It was not necessary to abolish the PSP scheme. A slight adjustment, as in Germany, the Czech Republic, Austria, had been sufficient and legal in relation to the European Union. The agreement is a tax relief for business and does nothing good for the green transition. In fact, a leaked document in the possession of energywatch.dk shows that Denmark can be forced to support green projects abroad even before the full phasing-out of the PRS tax, and that, as you know, does not change the financial law solution. I therefore see the abolition of the PSP as a purely business savings exercise, and I find it difficult to understand how the other parties of the Danish Parliament, with the exception of Enhedslisten, could agree to that level. An opening system could have been a financial gain for Denmark, even though I acknowledge that this agreement with Anders Samuelsen's words would be perhaps the greatest business tax relief ever. That is quite fair if that is the reason, but I think it is bordering on manipulation, when we have been told by the government for many months that a PSO disposal is a bottom-up task that ensures the green transition. It is really, really a pity that we have not had a proper debate on the alternative solutions that exist. We could have adjusted on the side of support as in Germany. We could have adjusted how we collect the levy to finance the PSO, as has been done in the Czech Republic. I am sure that you could have made a gifted solution and in that rebirth lowered the electricity tax so that green electricity would be cheaper. That's how we could have promoted heat pumps. If we want to promote the integration of wind energy across energy sectors, we should instead reform the tax system. It is a key priority for the alternative to ensure a stable environment for the green transition. We believe that those who consume the most must pay the most. We believe that electricity consumption should replace fossil consumption and not only increase overall. With this scheme, increased electricity consumption will come from predominantly fossil sources. That is why we cannot support the abolition of the PSO.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129142352	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129142355	Thank you. I very much agree with the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr President. Christian Poll, in the considerations that emerged in the speech. I find it a little shameful that there are such short deadlines for consultation on such large legislative proposals and cases, which provide for major changes, so there are some organisations that say that they cannot do this properly within the time limits. So I would really like to use this opportunity to appeal and say to those organisations that do not think there has been enough time: can we not get the comments anyway? Because it is important that we have a dialogue right up to the third reading. It looks as if this is not being adjusted unless the European Union intervenes. I don't think sir. Christian Poll and I can persuade a majority in the Folketing to think otherwise unless it is the European Union that forces a majority in the Folketing to think otherwise. I think that is a pity, because I really think it is the Folketing that should decide. So I'd like to hear sir. Christian Poll, if there is anything we can do to involve more organisations before the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129142457	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129142458	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. I think it is worth calling on the organisations out there to make their comments anyway. And then, in the future, we will again point out that we believe that democracy must function properly, and that is why we must have appropriate consultation deadlines.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129142521	I would like to make a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129142528	I look forward very much to the consultation that we are going to have together. I look forward both to meeting the Minister and Mr. Christian Poll for an hour. There I hope that we can deepen a little more what sort of processes there have been and what annexes might have been included in the dialogue between the Ministry and the European Union on what kind of scheme Denmark could introduce, where such a state aid system, which is quite different from the PSO system that was long approved by the European Union, could be developed. I'd like to know if Mr. Knox is here. Christian Poll also looks forward to the consultation that we hope will soon have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129142606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129142607	Thank you. I do, of course, very much. It is important to hold on to democracy and also to look at the solutions that are on the way with all kinds of glasses. In fact, in this case, it seems that we are in the process of getting a system that could be even more problematic with regard to the European Union than that which has long been counted illegal with regard to the European Union, but which could only be adjusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129142636	Thank you. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129142644	It turned out quite quickly after the last parliamentary elections that there was a large majority in the Folketing consisting of the special Left Government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party, who wanted to look at the PSO tax. We have not had any desire for this on the part of the Radical Left. We think the PRS tax has been sensible because those who pollute through the levies also pay for the green conversion. It has been a great deal in the debate that business has been dissatisfied with the PRS tax. When you look at competitive industrial companies, you can see that the total cost of electricity has been quite low in Denmark. In fact, they have been at European level. And when you look at the agreement for 2012, you can see that Danish companies have had lower electricity costs than you thought at the time. For it may well be that the PRS tax has increased, but the general price of electricity has decreased even more. Therefore, we did not really think there was any reason to look at the PRS tax. The European Commission has already said, when we were in government, that the PRS tax had to be changed because it was contrary to the EU's state aid rules. For us in the Radical Left, this has not meant abolishing the PSO, as the EU Commissioner for Competition has also said to the daily newspaper Børsen. This meant that the PRS tax had to be changed, but not abolished, and that was our wish. But there was a large majority who wanted something else. The Radical Left then has the approach to politics that we would rather enter the negotiating room and try to see how much we can change. I think it is well known that the Left Government, at the same time as trying to remove the PSO, set out to cut down quite massively on the green switch-over • remove offshore wind farms and remove future room for manoeuvre to invest in green conversion. We entered into the negotiations and helped to ensure that the green transition is preserved, that in the years to come there is money to invest in further green conversion, and then it was important for us that if the PSP should be abolished, if we were to compromise our position there, then business would also contribute to that abolition by looking at some of the business support schemes. We succeeded, too. So we have come to a compromise here by agreeing to an agreement to remove the PSO, but we certainly think that we can see ourselves in the agreement we have made with the government, the Social Democracy, the Danish People's Party and a number of other parties, because there is still room to invest in the green transition, and the savings made by the then Left Government have been removed a great many of them. So we are satisfied with the overall agreement, and that is why we are also voting for this bill, although it would have been significantly different if we had had the majority for it here in the Folketing, which we do not have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129142959	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143003	We are faced with the fact that the Folketing has signed up to the Paris Agreement, and that implies some obligations. This means, among other things, that there must be no backsliding, so that no initiatives can be taken in individual countries in the wrong direction. And what we can then experience in Denmark is first an agricultural package which, of course, leads to an increase in CO2 2 So here we have three measures which, in general, are moving in the wrong direction. Can the rapporteur make a few comments on how we are going to live up to the Paris Agreement without having these setbacks?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143059	I fully agree with Enhedslisten and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen in that it is quite wild to think that for the first time in decades we have a government that goes the opposite way. Denmark is a unique country where we have built a welfare state and had an increase in prosperity, while at the same time keeping our CO2 and now going the other way. We stopped some of the most black suggestions. It has not gone entirely our way in this debate, but everything else just got less wrong than what was the starting point when we went into the room. And that is why we chose to join because we think we can see that we have been there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143147	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143149	One can then hope that we go from yesterday to having something that the previous government called green realism to something where one goes so far as to listen to the Climate Council and where one has outlined that one wants to reach 50%. VE in 2030 for all energy consumption. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Radicals for their fair play. I have heard that the Radicals, as the only party here after the summer holidays, have been good at during the negotiations in which Enhedslisten has not been convened, to say that it was strange that Enhedslisten and SF were not invited.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143225	Thank you so much for all that. Although Radical Left, SF and Enhedslisten disagree on many things, we probably agree that when you make agreements with each other, you have to stand by them and treat each other properly and follow the tradition that the Danish people's government has, that an agreement is an agreement, and that if you want to change it, you discuss it with everyone. So I'm glad to know, and I just want to say, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143254	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143258	Thank you. Has the rapporteur thought about what can be replaced, if the new system turns out to be illegal state aid, so that when you finance things under the Finance Act, it becomes illegal state aid, and then perhaps the EU can challenge that scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143318-2	Now, in the party to which I belong, I have a certain connection with the part of the European Commission that is dealing with it, and it is certainly not my impression that this new regime will be against EU rules. But it can happen so quickly, because, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen has mentioned in the debate here, the European Commission is opening up the energy markets. In other words, I believe that Denmark, regardless of what it may say, must be opened up to the outside world. So in this way, we can quickly get back into difficulty with the state aid rules, and I do not think we will have to avoid opening up the market to other players than just Danish. And I think that is a good thing for the green transition, because the more people who offer projects, the cheaper and the better the projects can be, and then we can have more green conversion for the money we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143417	Thank you to the Radical rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143435	The SF went to the negotiations with the government on the PSO issue in order to maintain the PSO. Our wish was, of course, that we, like the Germans, should opt for an opening solution which maintains that the polluter pays as a sound and sound principle in the energy sector and in the area of electricity consumption, but that the money is then spent on investment in the expansion of energy supply. It wasn't possible. It was clear from the outset, as the rapporteur of the Radicals pointed out, that there was a very large majority in the Danish Parliament who was interested in abolishing the PSO model and transferring it to the Finance Act. It's sad. It is sad because it is a healthy principle to say that the polluter has to pay and because it also ensures that both business and citizens contribute when investing in continued energy supply. But we did it because of two elements. One was to ensure a proper financing model. Here it has been crucial for the SF that it is not only the citizen who pays through an increase in the base tax, but that business actually also contributes, not only with the abolition of the VE to process, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur pointed out, but also with the abolition of several growth pool proposals, which were in the growth agreement of 2014. So business contributes 2 billion. kr., and the citizens contribute by raising the base tax by 700 million. kr. Every year and through the green cheque, where both pensioners and early retirement pensioners, which I think is quite reasonable, are exempted by 700 million. kr. Could it have been better? Yeah, it certainly could. However, when we look at the overall result, it is essentially crucial for SF that business also contributes. The second element that was important for SF was to look at what the challenge is when abolishing a tax on electricity. Now, when the electricity price is so low, we will see an insane increase in electricity consumption and thus also an increase in our CO2 There I have to say that we have been quite concerned about this during the negotiations. Together with the Radical Left, we have ensured that a climate pool was established that will allow us to take compensatory measures. It's 375 million. kr., and there should be no doubt that when it becomes possible, SF will work for that pool to be even bigger, hopefully together with the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties, because we are faced with a common challenge that we must not go back in relation to the Paris Agreement, in relation to our emissions of CO2 We must constantly increase our ambitions. Is it only bad that the PSO is abolished? No, there is thus the advantage over electricity consumption that we would like more people to use electricity rather than other forms of energy. It would be good if we used more electricity in our heat supply than biomass. That is why we have repeatedly demanded from the government and I will do it again now, when I have the opportunity to do that tax analysis, which will clearly show that we need to look at the taxes we have on electricity, versus that we have no taxes on biomass at all. Why is this important? Yes, because many of our district heating plants switch to biomass instead of using the option to install heat pumps, so you can use electricity in our heat supply. That would make sense, because so much of our electricity comes from renewable energy. And that would be a good way to use some of the excess electricity, among other things. at night, namely for conversion to heat. That's why it makes sense. But it does not happen by itself, and therefore SF has also helped to ensure that the agreement states very clearly that we need to look at how we can increase the use of heat pumps. Because that's not gonna happen by itself. It will not be seen that district heating plants will convert by lowering electricity prices. I very much agree with the alternative when they say from the platform that you could have longer deadlines for consultation and that you could have better processes. The challenge was that with the course we have been through with the 2025 plan and the government's trummer room with the other blue parties, it has taken a long time with a PSP solution. It should have been in place earlier. It should have settled in the spring. I'm afraid that didn't happen. Then we would have had some more time for a proper process. This is important when you make legislation so that you are aware of the challenges that exist. I have noted that the World Fund for Nature has written precisely in relation to research funds that we must focus on them when we abolish the PRS so that it does not happen that these research funds just disappear. And, of course, we have written in the agreement that they must be secured through the EUDP. It's just to say that I'm kind of preoccupied with processes as well. Right now I am so concerned that we actually have the funds for the coastal mills and Krieger's Flak and other things that we are going to talk about later today. And that's why this solution has to be put in place by 1 January. But I can well understand the process argument from the alternative. The SF supports the proposal, L 90, and we do so with the comments I have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143942	Mr President, there is a brief comment for the time being. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129143947	After all, we have just had a climate summit in Morocco where it has been confirmed that there is a Paris agreement that is in force and that gives some commitments. I would really like to hear the rapporteur's comments on the fact that today we are dealing with a legislative proposal which leads to an increase in CO2 emissions. I think it is disastrous that we have something that is dominated by what should be said here, less intelligent decisions on increased electricity consumption, because we should like to see an intelligent use of electricity. After all, that is not what has been proposed with the legislation being put forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129144049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129144050	I fully agree with Enhedslisten that both cheaper cars and, as such, the agricultural package will mean that Denmark will not deliver on the target we have written into the Paris agreement, namely 37%. in 2020. I would have liked us to have delivered 40%. in 2020, which was actually the ambition we had when we sat in government. Compared to this very thing, there is no doubt that the Danes will probably use more electricity. Well, I can hear that there are others who say that it is not safe, but when the elle gets cheaper, there is also a tendency for increased consumption of electric ergo we will see an increased CO2 which is why we have been preoccupied with getting a climate pool. It was the Radical Left and the SF who, in the last few hours, actually fought through a climate pool in order to make compensatory measures. I hope, then, that we can deliver so that we do not see an increase in CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129144144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129144145	Now we have an agreement in which business is being made less expensive and where some adjustments are being made to who can continue to get a green cheque, and we have cash benefits recipients who, since 1 October, have been able to obtain a lower benefit if they have been hit by the cash aid ceiling, along with others who have been affected by the 225-hour rule, etc. Does the SF think that it is socially balanced that an agreement has ended here where the green cheque is abolished for cash benefit recipients and other low-paid people?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129144220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129144222	No, SF doesn't think it was a good idea to include the green check. We would have liked to have seen exactly the same model that we made with the Enhedslisten, which was, of course, that when we abolished the security of supply tax, we put it alone on the bottom tax. This reminds me of the agreement we have just reached with Enhedslisten, where it is of course everyone who contributes, but proportional to income. At that time, Enhedslisten had no problem finding taxes, which were also taxes for companies, and putting them on to the citizens. I was actually hoping that we could do the same exactly in this area. But in relation to the green check, I would say that it is not something that has grown in the SF backyard. We would have liked it to have been a purely bottom tax solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129144259	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I do not see the Conservative rapporteur in the Chamber, which is why I pass the floor on to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129144314	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the comments made by the rapporteurs on the draft law. A number of questions were asked along the way. Sir. Jens Joel asks if this will be just one year, we will transfer this money from ELFORSK to EUDP. I can say that that is certainly not my starting point for this. It is that by transferring the money from ELFORSK to the EUDP, we are starting to achieve the goal of achieving the ambition we have in 2020 to get the EUDP to 580 million. kr., which is precisely the vision we have in meeting the requirements in order to be able to join Mission Innovation. Then Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen to this question, which is indeed up, about the possibilities for cross-border energy projects. This is part of the proposal that comes from the European Commission in connection with the winter package, which will be published in the near future. I can say that this is an initiative, and there will be a discussion between the countries as to whether it is possible to carry out cross-border funding or whether it is not possible to do so, and that discussion is certainly not over. I can say that in some countries at least there is some scepticism, and the Danish Government will also look at this in a way, so that we ensure that we do not just lead Danish support crowns out of Denmark. On the other hand, it is also the case that we want to have the opportunity to carry out energy projects across national borders as well. We have North Sea cooperation as an example of this with some opportunities to expand with sea winds in the North Sea, and there may well be some interesting ideas as to how it is possible for individual countries to implement projects in the North Sea and be credited to their domestic account for it. That's something we're looking at. But also in terms of being able to transfer support crowns, that is something we are looking at relatively critically. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has referred to this issue of taxes, which is an eternal travert here in the Danish Parliament, and which was also part of the discussions when we were negotiating the PSO, namely how we put this together as appropriately as possible, and we have to recognise that there are certain inappropriateities in the way in which our tax system is linked. This is something that we are actually looking at and addressing in relation to the PSO agreement, in other words that there is a challenge here. I would also like to say that, in relation to the government base, it is clear that heat pumps are something that we would like to see promoted. You can see that in black and white there. So I am hoping that we can take a joint look at this, and I have had a discussion with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr earlier today about this, in other words about the possibilities for us to take this up and see what opportunities there are for us to develop heat pumps as well. As can be seen, the primary purpose of the draft law is to phase out the PSO collection, re-prioritise the ForskEL to the EUDP and abolish the aid scheme VE to the process. The bill translates the PSO agreement of 17 November 2016 on the abolition of the PSO expenditure and the conversion of the PSO expenditure into the Finance Act, the so-called long-term PSO solution. With the PSO solution, the PSO expenditure is gradually moved to the Finance Act from 2017. The PRS expenditure is fully phased into the budget law of 2022. At the same time, part of the support for research as well as the support for new renewable capacity will be moved as early as 2017. The long-term PSP solution ensures the financing of the green transition for the period after 2016. At the same time, the bill creates security about the financing of Denmark's green conversion, strengthens the competitiveness of Danish business, gives the Danes a cheaper electricity bill and paves the way for using more green power in Danish society. The long-term PSO agreement shall subsequently be approved by the European Commission by the end of 2016. Decommissioning the pool VE to process has been a significant contribution to finding a solution to the financing challenge. Business has thus paid part of the solution by removing this subsidy scheme of approx. 2 billion I am grateful to the House for its support for the resolution. I am also pleased with the commitment to re-prioritising funds from the ForskEL programme to the EUDP, thereby ensuring a qualitative boost to support schemes for energy technology development. With the reprioritisation of funds for the EUDP, it will become clearer and simpler for companies and research institutions to apply for public support for energy technology projects. Under the EU State aid rules, Denmark is obliged to reduce the balancing remuneration in the event of overcompensation. With the reduction of the balancing allowance, we now ensure that there is a good balance between the costs to be borne by wind turbine owners and the compensation they receive. It is proposed that the bill should enter into force on 1 January 2017. Finally, I would like to point out that the draft law was sent in consultation with a short consultation period of 5 days in order to comply with the requirement for minimum treatment of 30 days. I welcome the interest that has been expressed in the draft law here in Things today. I look forward to continuing discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs, and I hope that the bill will be dealt with favourably.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129144837	There are some brief comments. The first question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129144843	Thank you for the answer that the European Commission will come up with a proposal tomorrow. It will be exciting to see if it is something that obliges all countries to implement a German model. The minister says it can lead Danish support crowns out of the country. Yes, it can, but if you look at the agreement on solar cells made by the Minister with Germany, we ended up with a model where there is a prospect that there are 2.4 MW solar cells that may be owned by Germans but which receive Danish support for production. At the same time, there are 50 MW of solar cells which may be Danish owned and which may receive aid from Germany, where the level of aid is higher. This means that we have the prospect that Danish companies will be able to receive higher support on more megawatts than they will go the other way. And so I find it a little difficult to see in such global cooperation that it is a problem that Denmark will be able to receive more support than the one we send out of the country. Does the Minister not agree with those considerations?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129144949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129144949-2	When the government wants to change the PSP and move it to the Finance Act, it is because we believe that this is the best way to create growth in Danish business. We believe that the way in which the PSP is organized today, when it is financed from the electricity bill, discriminates against Danish companies. This means that there are a number of Danish companies which are competitive and which have reduced their competitive power. It also turns out that there are a number of other effects, not least a socio-economic impact of more than 1 billion. kr. by moving the PESO to the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145027	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145029	I certainly do not think that this is the best way to create growth, because I do not think it is targeted enough simply to reduce taxes. I would like to hear here at the end of this debate whether it is not true that Margrethe Vestager, the EU Commissioner for Competition, has not called for the PSO system in Denmark to be abolished, which is happening here, and that the Competition Commissioner has not said that the Danish PSO system is illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145059-2	It is thus that there were many possibilities in terms of how we could solve this challenge. The government has chosen a financial law solution because we think it is best for Denmark, for the Danish companies and for the Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145112	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145115	Thank you. I would also like to raise the issue of illegality, because I have been sitting late and watching many news broadcasts, where it has just been drawn very squarely by a large number of media, i.e. that this PSO scheme we currently have is illegal and that it has to be scrapped. I'm thinking, I wonder where that information comes from. That is problematic, I think, and that is what I would like to ask the Minister here to confirm once and for all that it is not illegal to have a PRS scheme and that the system we have could simply be adjusted so that it was completely legal in relation to EU rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145156	Thank you for the question. We could not continue with the present system in its present form. The Commission has pointed out that it could not continue. Then there were several options. Two of the options would be an opening solution and another option, and that is what the government has chosen, would be a financial law solution. We have chosen the financial law solution because we think it has a large number of other positive effects.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145223	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145224	This then takes me over to the second question, because an opening solution could have continued to provide stable funding, while the financial law solution, which has now been chosen, would, according to the Climate Council, provide a significantly increased excess emissions of CO2 tonnes. Can the Minister not confirm that, with it, we are in a very uncertain situation where we are constantly going to negotiate for a few years, one year, next year, ahead in time to find out how much we want to switch and that, therefore, the business community that wants to invest in this can become very uncertain whether it is worth investing in Denmark and at least put something on the price, because the risk of funding is going to be much greater?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145313	I am confident that in future negotiations, both when energy agreements are to be made and financial law solutions are to be made, there will continue to be massive support here in the Danish Parliament for Denmark to continue the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145328	The next question is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145330	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister, also for confirming that this appropriation, which is being transferred from the ForskEL, should also be continued because energy research is important. Some of the consultation answers or notes from the Danish Energy Agency say about energy research, among other things. in this move from the ForskEL to the EUDP, it will give a qualitative boost to the energy research area. I would like the Minister to clarify what that means.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145411	This will certainly mean an increase in research within the EUDP, and that is what has been the whole purpose of this process, namely to ensure the strengthening of the EUDP programme, which we think is a very good programme both in terms of research and innovative solutions and in terms of supporting the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145430	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145431	Yes, I can calculate that it is a strengthening of the EUDP when you start to account for it as the EUDP. Now I actually asked why it is qualitatively better for energy research to have it at the EUDP than at the ForskEL. However, I have another supplementary question which is aimed at ELFORSK, because it does not say much about this. I just need the Minister to confirm that the money, which has also been PRS-funded in the past, is still found in the research pool, so that, contrary to what the government says, we do not actually see a scaling down compared to last year. One thing is, of course, that the energy research funds were halved between 2015 and 2016, but one has looked very carefully at the fact that the amount has been raised until 2017, and I just have to be sure that it is because it has been retained, which is called ELFORSK and not just ForskEL.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145521	It is thus that next year there will be more money for energy research than there will be this year, both with the extra money that has come in connection with the distribution of research funds, with the money that is set aside in the Finance Act and with the money that comes from the ELFORSK progamme.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145541	The next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145544	Thank you. It's a little bit of a follow-up on this question of research. After all, what will be crucial is not just the funds for 2017, but the funds as far as 2020 is concerned. I noted that the government base actually says that the ambition is to increase the level by 2020. What I am concerned about in the field of energy research are two elements. One is, of course, what lies in the EUDP today, which is given to some specific projects at a certain point in the process. ELFORSK, on the other hand, has provided funds for somewhere else in the value chain. Will you make sure that the EUDP is then extended so that it can stand for a larger part of the chain, or how does the Minister imagine we can actually deliver, so that we have both research at one level and at the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145636	Thank you for the question from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. I would also be willing to talk to the rapporteur's party about whether it would be sensible to look at the framework for EUDP cooperation and whether it would be useful to look at whether some of the initiatives that are there, or some of the things that are there, could be applied in future in EUDP projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145700	The questioner doesn't have any more questions. Then we thank the Minister. I would urge the audience not to use flashes when photographing in this Chamber. Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145725	The debate is open and I give the floor to the first rapporteur, Mr President. Jens Joel, as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129145746	Thank you. After all, the proposal we are now considering is closely linked to the proposal we have just discussed on the reorganisation of the PSO, because part of the agreement on the reorganisation of the PSO, in other words another way of financing the green conversion, was also aimed at maintaining green ambitions. In addition to a socially fair distribution of the bill, it is also a question of keeping to the green transition we are undertaking. Against this background, of course, the Social Democratic Party is pleased that today, as we have fought for it, we can take steps to secure funding for the next offshore wind farm and the next two coastal offshore wind farms. It is extremely important for confidence in the green transition, so that as an investor you can invest in Denmark, that you know that once a broad political agreement has been reached, it will also become a reality. In addition to that, there are a number of different adjustments to this bill. There is also something about a review of the open door system. It is, of course, a discussion we have had in the past in the conciliation circle, which has nothing directly to do with the PSO agreement of last week, but which is about ensuring that when there can sometimes be built offshore wind turbines without receiving support, in fact under the same conditions of competition as wind turbines, it is important to ensure that there is also a local process around it, as there is in the offers of coastal offshore wind turbines, but as there has not been here. It is important that both for the people who have to invest and for the people who live in the area, there is certainty about what the rules are like. So we support the fact that an adjustment is being made here so that there is also a right to object locally. On the other hand, we are also pleased that the municipalities are being encouraged to add sea areas, it can be said, by ensuring that there will also be an opportunity to be included in the green scheme in an extended purchasing system, so that some of the summerhouse owners, who are going to be neighbours to the mills, can also offer it and also get something out of it in economic terms with regard to the mills. Then there has been a discussion about the suspension of some aid schemes. It must be said straight away that we on the part of the Social Democrats would have liked this PSO agreement to have been put in place more quickly, because there is a great deal of technology. Therefore, as early as January, in other words just under a year ago, we have asked the government about this process to try to ensure that we did not get out of the gaps in saving the many different beneficiaries who are out there and who expect that the commitment they have received will also be met. We are pleased that it has now also been established, and I think the Minister will do so too, that those who have been given a commitment to support can of course also count on their money, even though there is now a renouncing, in other words that there are now some arrangements that need to be notified and approved in the EU system again. So, on the whole, we are positive about the PSO agreement. We are also positive about the adjustments made by the open door system, and we are very pleased that today we can take the first step towards launching the sea, one might almost say the offshore wind farms and the two coastal parks.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150137	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150141	It is to the rapporteur's comment on the open door procedure for coastal wind turbines, with which there is now a change being proposed, so it is the Minister who has to deal with the consultation round that can take place before a feasibility study is granted. I would like to point out that it is not because you start from zero, because until now there has also been an opportunity for consultation. It has only been the Danish Energy Agency that has done it, instead of the Minister having to conclude on what might come of inquiries from municipalities in a process where they are heard before giving a preliminary examination permit. I do not think we are going from zero, but we are going to come up with something here, where it is the Minister and where it is put in the way that it is also the committee that is being informed of what processes are going on. So I would just like to point out that we are not going from a zero democracy to something that is more democratic; we come to the conclusion that it is another body that will deal with the consultation answers that may come. It's just to clarify.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150241	Thank you. In other words, I think it has been politically problematic that there has not been a political process in the open door projects, and that is why we in the Social Democrats have supported the Minister in saying that we should perhaps also have a political discussion on things that were not a call for tenders. On the other hand, it has also been important for the Social Democratic Party not only to have an opportunity to object but also to be able to raise a flag in relation to it here and to be dealt with politically by the Minister, also with the presentation to the committee, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur points out. So it has been important for us not only to have a brake on the process, but also to have an incentive to secure local support, and so in this adaptation there is both something that makes it more attractive to set up coastal offshore wind turbines if you can do so under very, very competitive conditions, and there is an opportunity to ensure better local support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150345	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150347	I do not, in fact, disagree with the fact that we should make this change, but if you look at the comments on a bill of this kind, you do a little bit, because it is now as if there are protests from summer house owners whether something can be built. I would like to point out that the comments on the bill draw attention to the fact that there were protests from holiday home owners at Mejlflak in Aarhus Bay, but there were also Aarhus Municipality who supported the project. So I think we should look forward to being more nuanced about this, and I think it is a little dangerous that it is progressing in the way that summer house owners can also have a higher degree of objection rights compared to residents I can better understand that one takes account of the residents.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150430	I do not think it is intended that the summer home owners will have a more extensive right of objection or protection than the residents. What is proposed in relation to the cottage owners is that they can get a better incentive because they can benefit from the financial gain by establishing it here. Having said that, we, too, would very much like to be involved in discussing overall planning and how to place it here. Because I think that one of the problems that has arisen is that fortunately it has become so cheap to establish this, but that when it was implemented, it was not like making rules about how it was to be managed, because it was not expected to happen, because it would probably never be so cheap. There I think we have to take on the planning task, it is • and as we do when it comes to state procurement • to designate some suitable areas in cooperation with the locals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150522	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150533	Thank you. The bill here contains elements related to the 2012 Energy Agreement, which almost all of the Danish Parliament's parties are behind, including the Danish People's Party. However, the most important element of the bill is the legalisation of price increases and settlement conditions for the offshore wind farms Vesterhav South, Vesterhav North and Kriegers Flak. In the case of these parks, invitations to tender have been made under the Energy Agreement and the draft law regulates the payment of aid according to the bid of winners. In addition, the draft law also provides for adjustments to the so-called open door system for offshore wind turbines, which has been agreed in the energy conciliation circle, among others. that the municipalities concerned are guaranteed a conditional right of opposition and that the purchase right scheme is extended to summer house owners. In the Danish People's Party we support the bill as we are part of the circle behind the energy agreement. I would particularly like to point out that we welcome the changes to the open door system, because it is proposed that in future, local protests will be taken much more into account than hitherto. Because, as has been the case up to now, it has only been a central decision whether or not to grant an application under the open door system, without there having been a requirement for local protests to be taken into account. This will be corrected by the adjustment agreed by the conciliation circle, which will be reflected in the legislative proposal here. Against this background, I can say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150650	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Thomas Danielsen as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150707	Thank you for that, President. Let me start by saying that the Conservative People's Party also supports the proposal. Like the previous draft law, this bill translates parts of the PSO agreement, and this bill also proposes many elements implemented. All these elements must together ensure that the green transition takes place in an interaction with the interests of business, while at the same time doing so in a way that favours both citizens and municipalities. The municipalities will benefit from the municipal right of objection, which gives them a greater influence on the expansion of coastal wind turbines. In addition, the extension of the green scheme will allow municipal councillors to apply for grants for initiatives so that citizens can benefit from the green projects financed by coastal offshore wind turbines. In addition, local holiday home owners are given the opportunity to participate in the purchasing system with the bill, and in this way they can gain ownership of the coastal wind turbines near their summer houses. As I said at the outset, there are, of course, also some business policy interests in the proposal. Local port companies will obviously benefit from the associated offshore activities, and in general it is to be expected that the setting up of these parks will have a positive effect on the Danish wind turbine industry. Against this background, the Left will, of course, vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150841	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150845	I am very pleased that today we can support the coastal mills and set up them in the West Sea South and the West Sea North. I have just taken note of the fact that the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Thomas Danielsen, several times called the coastal mills, mills that stand on the beach, mills that stick many kilometres into the air, and that they would therefore be a great disgrace to those who live there locally. I'd like to ask Mr. Thomas Danielsen, about Mr. Thomas Danielsen continues to believe that it is mills standing on the beach, which are several kilometres high.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129150923	I can inform the rapporteur that the rapporteur of the Left has not spoken. But it is quite true that the Left proposed not to drop the coastal wind turbines, but to postpone the coastal wind turbines both in terms of time and location. It was on the basis of an assessment that not many people were in demand for the electricity they were going to produce, as we are talking about the Western Sea South and the North. What is to be feared is that this will give rise to the need to displace other wind turbines, and that is why our assessment was that there could be more green conversion for the money in other ways. At the same time, we simply said that we would very much like the wind turbines, but we proposed that they should be postponed, both in terms of time and location. It was kind of common sense. We can see from Kriegers Flak that there could be some very low prices, despite throwing them 15 km into the water. But now there is a majority in favour of this solution, and of course we support it on the Left side.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129151030	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129151032	I'm really happy about that. If I am to quote the rapporteur correctly, I think I have to say that the rapporteur has said that they are very close to the beach. We should not disagree, but I believe that when they are from 4.5 to 10 km away from the beach, they are not quite close to the beach. At least that's not where I shower normally when I'm in the shower. I am also pleased that the Left has changed its position and that the coastal mills are now being supported. I think it is crucial for our future energy supply to ensure that the green transition is also carried out. So I just want to end by thanking you for changing your position.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129151109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129151110	What the rapporteur of the Left has just said is certainly not something about mile-high mills, etc. With the decision you have taken here, you choose to place them in virgin areas where you have not previously had windmills. We think it is most appropriate for offshore wind turbines to be out at sea and not near the coast. However, there is a majority in favour of it in this way, and that is why we naturally support what a majority in the Danish Parliament believes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129151145	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Søren Egge Rasmussen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129151157	The Enhedslisten believes that the most important thing today is to welcome the fact that we have arrived at probably having the world's cheapest offshore wind farm in view at Kriegers Flak, and that we have the prospect that we might also have the world's cheapest coastal mills set up. And I think the potential for this is huge. When you stand down in Marrakech with 25,000 people and try to focus on the climate problems of the planet, it is of course extremely important that there are solutions to that too that it is extremely important that 12,500 from the African continent can go home and say: We have actually been inspired by what we saw and heard in Morocco; there are opportunities for us to use our renewable energy in a local energy system. There I find it impressive how far we have come in Denmark with our offshore wind farm buildings. And the prices we see here are fantastic cheap. But it is also important that we see the individual projects in full and that we also include what it is for a network connection, user-paid network connection that is involved in the whole. I think it will be interesting to look forward to the next energy policy conciliation, where we should try to find some balance on what kind of supply we need and what kind of technological solutions will be chosen. It is relevant to look at what the price really is for renewable energy, if you like to see how much support is given in the project's overall lifetime. And there we have just recently asked the Minister some questions and found that land wind is still cheapest, but it is not significantly cheaper. And that is why we have to try to rethink where we are with the latest technology. Where are we with the latest solar cells? What can we come to if you start using monoposts on land for windmills? There may well be some technological developments on land, which means that farm mills will continue to be the most inexpensive. But we're in a situation with these new awards that we've got, that we can look forward to something where it for an ordinary household, if you're going to prioritize the big offshore wind turbine projects, so maybe an extra cost of 4 cents per cent. kWh in relation to getting its power from farm mills. And then maybe it's about. 160 kr. a year, there is the extra bill to get more mills out at sea. In the new government's government base, it has been outlined that at least 50% should be achieved. renewable energy by 2030 of total energy consumption, and if it were to be achieved that renewable energy would be expanded exclusively by sea wind, 18 pieces would have to be built. of Krieger's Flak size to achieve that goal. So you might as well practice having the good offers. And I think that there should also be room for a little criticism here in relation to the process we have seen, where the Minister for Climate and Energy has been out to air, that you may not want to carry out anything that you were in the middle of an invitation to tender, that you should not repeat it. So this is not the way to keep supply processes. There must be complete confidence that when there is a pre-qualification and you send something in tenders, others can rely on it to do so. And, of course, somewhere in the papers it says that you can cancel everything, but if you had to have that process, it should have been taken into the energy reconciliation circle. But now we came up with something where the bids were so low that the overall energy balance has become cheaper than what we assumed in 2012. I think there's the problem with this bill that we're getting consultation notes so late. And that is because the government has been very slow in coming to a conclusion on the PSO solution. I think it is positive that the Green Scheme should also be extended to coastal mills. And this purchasing system, which is now outlined to also apply to summer house owners, well to mark summer house owners who have had a holiday home for at least 2 years, so there can be no speculation in buying a cheap little stamp in order to be able to acquire wind farm shares. However, it is also something that increases the cost of wind turbine projects that there is a purchasing system where you can buy at cost and where the entire inter-funding has to be lifted by project promoters. So there are also negative economic consequences when it comes to extending the purchasing system. I think this bill is essential to see in this major climate change agenda, and it's really important to focus on: what is the export potential that we are now implementing these two projects? And I think it's been a little embarrassing to see a climate minister and energy minister out airing that these mills at the North Sea weren't something that the minister wanted to show to his grandchildren. Well, we're just in the situation that if we don't do something serious with these climate problems we're in the middle of, you can stand there and enjoy the view in rubber boots and watch the water level rise by 1 m and see climate refugees pouring over the coasts. So that is the reality that is also out there. We must take climate problems seriously, and I think it is positive that Denmark has some solutions for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129151659	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Carsten Bach as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129151710	Thank you. I'll try to make it a little short. In my speech earlier today to L 90, I concluded by quoting the entirely new government basis. That is why I would like to start by quoting the very same government basis here, with the very brief and concrete message that the cost of developing offshore winds has fallen sharply in recent years. We in the Liberal Alliance are really, really happy about that. It could also be really nice if Denmark could become the first country in the world where sea winds could manage on market conditions. Indeed, efficient and cheap energy supply is absolutely essential in order to create good conditions for growth, employment and competitiveness. Economic growth and green conversion should go hand in hand. In particular, I welcome the inclusion in the draft law of ceilings and restrictions on aid for certain aid schemes. Furthermore, I welcome the adjustment of the open door system, which has also been mentioned a few times before here from the platform, where local democracy has partly been left out of influence with a great deal of insecurity among citizens. We're gonna get one of those. so now corrected and introduced a conditional municipal right of objection. So the Liberal Alliance supports the government's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129151838	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129151841	Thank you. I've been reading up on what the Liberal Alliance used to say about these things, and I've come across a quote from Politiken from June 2015, saying: Energy conciliation is a communist production plan, in fact it's almost worse than some of the old communist five-year plans. It's an 8-year plan that works exactly the same way, where you say what you want then and so much of delivered to it and the price delivered at that and that time. I share the view that the Liberal Alliance has now changed its position because it has gone into government, but I would like to know whether the rapporteur therefore believes that it is positive to support the long-term planning that we have used up to now in Danish energy policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129151929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129151930	It was a very long quote which the questioner was also about to stumble in, and I could hear that the Minister was even getting it wrong, or at least something like that. What I can confirm the questioner in, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, is the marvellous fact that it now appears that we are approaching a situation where the sea wind can cope with market conditions, and that is precisely what we want to achieve in terms of market conditions for energy production.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152001	I also certainly welcome the fact that we are getting the price down, but what exactly is new in terms of supporting technology that is not currently market mature, but with a view to it becoming market mature, and so what we have been doing in the energy conciliation circle over the past many years?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152023	This is, of course, the context which the questioner also indicated in the first remark, namely that we are now engaged in intergovernmental cooperation with two other parties, and also, moreover, the draft law that we have also debated today, namely L 90, in relation to the abolition of the PSO and the broad political agreement that has been reached around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152041	The next question is Mr. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152046	I would like to take this opportunity to read out a quote from the rapporteur: 'It is perhaps even more important now that we consider our efforts very carefully and stop the unilateral Danish expansion with, among other things, one-sided Danish expansion. wind turbine power, because our overproduction is still being sold with losses on the European electricity market, so other European countries will have greater opportunities for CO2 It will not benefit anyone or anything, but will damage competitiveness in Denmark, the quota system in the EU and therefore also the real green conversion. In view of this, I would like to ask the rapporteur: what has changed with the government base that is now in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152130	It is, of course, one of the things that has been highlighted in the government's constitution, as Mr. Malte Larsen also read out from the quote, i.e. that the focus is now more on competitiveness, and it also says directly in the new government base that the green transition should create employment rather than the reverse.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152153	May I ask whether the rapporteur can see a reasonable perspective in the efforts that have been made over the last 30 years to create through subsidies a strengthened home market that gives development and a strong one, call it a laboratory for these things to work and for goods to be sold in the future, while at the same time strengthening climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152225	This is something that I and the Liberal Alliance think is good, in view of the fact that we have now been able to demonstrate to the outside world that in this context there is a possibility of a green transition and that, hopefully, the green transition can now end in terms of market conditions, among others. Sea winds. We certainly appreciate that in the Liberal Alliance too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152253	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152257	I do not have any quotes from the rapporteur, but I understand that the Liberal Alliance has become much wiser in a week, and that must always be respected. It is good to see that from being a party which thus contains certain climate dissidents and some who would like to have nuclear power, one has come to the conclusion that one is in a government where one has changed from something that used to be green realism to a position where one will then listen to the Climate Council, and where we have seen that in the government base has come that the government will therefore work for Denmark to have at least 50 per cent by 2030. of their energy needs covered by renewable energy • extremely exciting. If you were to imagine that energy consumption continued as it is now, and you would have to expand only with offshore wind turbines, 22 offshore wind farms of the size of Krieger's Flak would have to be built. Is it the reflections that have taken place during the intergovernmental discussions?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152359	Now I myself have not been directly involved in the discussions on the formation of the new government, but something that has also been highlighted in the new government base is precisely technology development, and the Liberal Alliance and I very much believe that some of the challenges we face can be solved through new technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152421	Then I hope that within another week the Liberal Alliance will become much wiser and will be able to recognise that it is the renewable energy that is to be invested in Denmark, because that is what is our starting point, and that we have historically had some processes that have made all types of a-power something that has been rejected, and that therefore it is not so important that the Liberal Alliance has been given the phrase in the government base that there are certain technologies that need to be investigated in order to see if there are barriers around it. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it would not be better to say that what we are best at in Denmark we continue with.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152500	Of course, you always have to do what you do best, but you always have to be open to learning new things, so we certainly are in the Liberal Alliance. We're in the Liberal Alliance, among other things. I also very much welcome the fact that the thorium technology, as it is, is the same, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen refers to has become part of the government base, so that we do not rule out some technologies in advance when we talk about energy production in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152528	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Christian Poll as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152537	In fact, the energy agreement of 2012 is something that I have been a little proud of in the sense that if you look at the other countries of the world, you see that it is at a rather ambitious level for your time • not that I think it could not have been better, but it has at least made a very good base in our energy policy in Denmark. That is why I was all the more concerned, and I would almost say appalled when I saw the government start to pick elements of it apart over the autumn. Once we have just reached an historic agreement, as the 2015 Paris Agreement is, I just couldn't understand why we were about to pick out the basic elements that could ensure this green transition. That is why, of course, we in the alternative are positive towards L 91, which we are dealing with here because we get the base base back, we can say that we will have the wind farms that were put into the scheme implemented. Having said that, I have some comments; I find that the draft law consists of seven elements, some of which I would like to comment on. The first is in relation to the municipal right of objection. There we feel that we are positive about increasing local influence. In our view, the limit referred to should be moved from 8 km to 12 km. That is how we see it in the policy of the Alternative and in our hinterland, that is that it is out there, the limit is for when you experience mills as something that is distant or as something that is close. But we think it is fine to have this right of objection, especially since it is also balanced in the text with the socio-economic considerations of the climate and the environment, for example. in order to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and such. So there is a balance in what you can have a local debate, but you can also, just as with the current mills and supply being implemented here, pay particular attention to the fact that we really need to take some major steps towards more renewable energy in Denmark. In other words, we are also in favour of extending the purchasing system. We think that as many Danes as possible should have the opportunity to invest in the renewable energy of the future, so there is also a plus for it. The extension of the green scheme can also be fine. Again it is located up to 8 km from the coast • we believe it should be out to 12 km. However, we would note that if we are talking about coastal mills, they should, in our view, be close to other technical installations, as far as is possible at all. In this way we will have a less strain on the free coastal landscapes, which we have in many places along our more than 7,000 km coastline. The rest are technical details, which we are involved in, and which need to be done in order to make the arrangements work. So the alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152921	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sorry, there was one more brief comment at the last minute. It's from Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129152935	This is just a question because of the rapporteur's last remarks about how far off coastal mills would be from the coast if it stood up to the alternative. But the alternative then accepts that the coastal mills are from 41⁄2 km to 10 km away, i.e. as in the proposal in question. Surely there is no premise that they need to be moved in order for the alternative to be able to back up, is there? I just have to understand it quite correctly: the alternative backs up the North Sea South and the North Sea or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129153005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129153011	We support the parks as planned. We stress that one of the bids moves part of the mill to 10 km's distance, and we think that is really positive. It is the case that we both have a coastal policy that says that we must work to ensure that mills generally reach 12 km, but we also have an ambitious climate policy. And we have debated this here in the parliamentary group and agree that the climate comes first here. We have an ambitious Paris agreement that we have to live up to, and if we do not get these wind farms off the ramp as soon as possible, we will be very busy. So it is a balancing of two wishes that can go against each other, in our policy. And in this case, we have chosen to put the most emphasis on climate action. In advance, of course, we will work to ensure that, if we are to have more coastal mills, they must, as far as possible, be 12 km out or close to other technical installations. That is what we want to work for while we want more wind farms.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129153115	Then we can thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg as rapporteur on the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129153123	In the Radical Left, we really welcome this bill because it implements the ambitious climate agreement we helped to get through when we sat in government back in 2012. For us, green energy and green investment are modern industrial policy that allows us to keep manufacturing industry in Denmark, keep jobs in Denmark, especially jobs in the province, where very many of the wind turbine jobs are located. We are also very pleased that the investments we have made as a society for decades have developed the wind turbine industry so that today we can deal with a bill with some of the lowest bids ever actually in the world on sea winds, both at Kriegers Flak and at Vesterhav South and Vesterhav Nord • these coastal wind farms. We have been very unhappy, yes, angry, that the Left Government, as it was said at the time, would not make the settlement of which they themselves were part, and just said in the open that now parts of this climate settlement would be dropped. This seems to us to be an injustice to the democratic and parliamentary tradition that we have in the Danish people's government, that when you make agreements with each other, they apply unless they are terminated in connection with a parliamentary election. So the Left chose to be completely indifferent to, and you just said that you would drop some elements in this settlement, and it was especially these coastal offshore wind farms. That is why I would like to take advantage of today's speech to thank the Social Democracy, the Conservative People's Party and the SF for helping in these negotiations to maintain that this conciliation must be carried out. This also applies, of course, to the Enhedslisten, which shares the view, but which unfortunately was not properly called for these negotiations. But I think it is really strong that together we could stick to this ambitious climate agreement. Also a special thanks to the SF for participating in the agreement we made a week or two ago, to make sure that in the years to come there is also a room to be able to invest even more in green energy. It is very important for the Radical Left that we help to ensure that there is room for manoeuvre to continue the green road and to keep creating green jobs. The draft law also allows municipalities to have the right to object to coastal wind farms, and this allows holiday home owners also to buy shares. We think this is sensible, and it is also part of an agreement we have made with the Left Government. The last thing that other rapporteurs have mentioned is the unfortunate situation that arises again, I am tempted to say for the country's companies that work with solar cells and household wind turbines. They are once again affected by a change affecting their business. This is because, as I understand it, it has been too slow to get the state aid back into the EU and to be allowed to grant it this state aid, and therefore there is little more to do than support the bill put forward by the government. However, I would like to comment on the fact that it is obviously too bad for these companies that they have, in good faith, produced projects for which they may now not be able to receive support. I think this is unacceptable, although we recognise the facts and therefore also vote in favour of that part of the legislative proposal. Overall, we're really excited about this bill and happy that the Left dropped this attack on our energy reconciliation and that together with various good forces, we could hold onto the level of ambition and therefore implement it with this bill. So we shall vote in favour with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129153529	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129153544	I think it is a really nice day today, because the whole parliament, all the parties of the Folketing, is supporting the expansion of the green transition in Denmark. Many ghastly words have been said about windmills and offshore wind farms and coastal mills over the past six months, and I have been following the debate and have hoped that this did not mean that we relaxed our ambitions. I shall not quote various people for what they have said about the coastal mills at Vesterhav South and Vesterhav North, but only welcome the fact that the Mayor of the Left in Ringkøbing-Skjern is now right. He is given the opportunity to create thousands of jobs in West Jutland by saying 'yes' to coastal mills. There is no doubt that when you make big decisions and it is both the coastal mills at Vesterhav South and Vesterhav North, it is Krieger's Flak, and it is many of the green investments we make that obviously have far-reaching consequences, also for the people who live near it or have to look at it, and that is why the SF has been so crucial that the green scheme is maintained and that it also needs to be used in connection with the coastal mills, so that those affected by it are also involved. I think it has been a positive move on the part of the Minister to look precisely at whether we can also make it easier for some of the holiday homes that have had a land and a house for many years and now feel that they have to sell the house and move somewhere else because the surroundings they are in are not the same as they really wanted. I think that there has been a great deal of sensitivity in that part of the process, which is why it is also good for us to change the open door principle, so that we include municipal councils, including in the sea of up to 8 km. So all in all, I'm kind of in a good mood. I think this is a very good proposal, and I must say, as SFs, that it is my heart to fight for renewable energy. So that way it's a little big today, and it could be that for once you had to drink a beer to celebrate a little Christmas beer. There is a small hair in the soup that I hope the Minister will pierce when he goes up and responds to the various comments on the bill. It is in fact about the aid schemes. After all, there are some people here who rightly expect them to be able to set up solar cells or to move forward with the application they have sent and accepted via Energinet.dk, but now they do not really know where they are in the process. I think it is important, after having been given an undertaking, that we should also know that we can get our investments under way, so that those companies that are so dependent on that work also have a legitimate expectation that they will be able to deliver. I hope the Minister can clarify this, of course, despite the very delayed process of applying for increased support. Yes, it is actually a very good day today; it is not so often that all parties in the Folketing support the green conversion and wind turbines. I think I will hoist a small windmill down to my place and say thank you to those parties where windmills may not be so close to the heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129153904	Thank you to the SF rapporteur, who is in a good mood. And then I give the floor to the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129153918	Thank you. And thank you for many positive comments and a good mood in today's debate; I am pleased about that. Then both Jens Joel and Pia Olsen Dyhr have asked about this: What about those who have been promised support? I can reassure them there by saying that it is the case that those who have sought and those who are seeking before the end of this year get their support. We also had a discussion on this earlier today, and I would like to thank the parties behind the energy agreement for having been able to discuss this issue and thus also find a common understanding of it. As can be seen, the draft law aims to introduce a municipal right of objection for municipalities and to extend the purchasing rights regime and the green scheme. In addition, the price surcharge for the offshore wind farms Vesterhav South, Vesterhav North and Kriegers Flak is set. The purpose of the draft law is also to limit time the possibility of obtaining price increases and possible compensation for electricity from land wind turbines and offshore wind turbines out of tender. Finally, the aim of the draft law is to introduce an authorisation to temporarily suspend certain aid schemes until the European Commission has taken a decision on State aid. In addition, the purpose is to include a ceiling on the amount of aid in some aid schemes where the State aid authorisation expires in 2016. The bill is intended to ensure that municipalities have a much greater influence on the development of offshore wind turbines close to their shores. This is done by introducing a municipal right to object to the open door system, which allows municipal councils to say no to projects. In addition, the rights of local holiday home owners are strengthened as the bill gives them the opportunity to participate in the purchasing system and thus gain ownership of the coastal offshore wind turbines near their summer homes. At the same time, the extension of the green scheme will give local citizens the benefit of green projects financed by coastal offshore wind turbines set up along the coasts of a municipality. These three changes to the rules on the open door system are all an implementation of the agreement on the open door system concluded by the Energy Association in autumn 2015. With the bill the price increases and the settlement conditions for the offshore wind farms Vesterhav South, Vesterhav Nord and Kriegers Flak are the results of the two state tenders. In addition, the draft law provides for the introduction of a time limit for obtaining price increases for land wind turbines and offshore wind turbines established under the open door system. Finally, the draft law provides for the possibility of suspending certain arrangements so as not to create a situation where unlawful State aid is paid as from 1 January 2017. The suspension shall apply until the European Commission has taken a decision on the extension of the arrangements. At the same time, a ceiling is added for total aid per year. enterprise per unit of activity; project up to a maximum of 15 million. This is necessary in the interests of the possibility of resubmitting the arrangements to the European Commission following a simpler procedure than that normally used. It is proposed that the draft law should enter into force on 1 January 2017. However, the changes relating to the green scheme and the price surcharge and the settlement conditions for offshore wind farms will not enter into force until later, as the entry into force is subject to State aid approval of Krieger's Flak tender and clarification of the pending case with the European Commission on the need for State aid approval of the green scheme. The entry into force of the parts of the bill relating to the price increases and the settlement terms for offshore wind farms is also subject to the acceptance by the European Commission of the financing solution of the price increases. Following the submission of the bill, the arrangements concerned have been detailed in cooperation with the Attorney General and it has been found that the need to suspend the arrangements is less than originally provided. Against this background, I would like to propose an amendment to the second reading of the bill in the Folketing. I welcome the interest expressed in the draft law here in Things today, and I look forward to continuing the discussions in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. And I hope for a continued positive reception here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154337	Thank you, and there are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154342	After all, I think it is important that there is a proper debate to decide what coastal mills or offshore wind turbines or land turbines are being decided. It has to be said with these coastal mills that we have had a process in which the former Minister of Energy, when it started, was out and ask some mayors whether they thought it was a good idea to go ahead with a site with coastal mills in their municipality, and then there has been a long process with an EIA statement, where then things have been adjusted a little bit. So we have been able to see that, in the middle of a procurement process, we had a climate and energy minister who was out to air, that it was not really intended to implement what was in supply. I would like to hear from the Minister whether we can expect the next time we make an invitation to tender, if it is Lars Christian Lilleholt who is the minister, that we will then not have a public process in which doubts are raised as to whether we are going to implement what is actually being put out to tender.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154445	I will also reserve the right to do so in the future if it turns out that costs are rising, and that is the case in the energy sector. The cost has increased quite sharply compared to when we entered into the energy agreement in 2012 • One might say more about the cost of the energy policy that led to it; it would probably have been more right to say "and there was a need and a need to look at the costs." We also believe that coastal wind turbines could be better placed elsewhere, further out at sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154514	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154516	If you look at the total energy costs to implement the energy settlement, how it will be, compared to what it looked like in 2012, then it has become cheaper than expected, and it was only found out when you had kept the two supply on the coastal mills and Krieger's Flak, and then I think it is a little strange that you will continue a resistance to the two good projects. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he cannot see a huge export potential in the low price level that we have now reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154545	We can look forward to a great export potential in Danish energy policy, and that is why I also welcome the low bid, and not least at Krieger's Flak, 37.2 øre, and I think it would have been a good alternative to convert the coastal wind turbines to the supply of sea wind that I think is better compared to the visual, and also that when we proposed this here, it was of course because we believe that the costs of the energy policy carried out, not only the energy agreement of 2012, but when you look at the overall cost of energy policy, have gone quite significantly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154615	The next question is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154620	Thank you. Now Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr was in a good mood, because we have actually saved the energy agreement we concluded with a broad majority almost several years ago. I would also like to welcome this, even though I would like to say to the government and to the Minister that I also think that it is extremely damaging to investors' confidence in the green transition in Denmark that we should witness a process like that which we have had in the last half to the entire year when cancellations of projects already offered have been threatened. However, I would actually like to go back to the transitional arrangement or the commitment of support that the Minister mentioned here and ask the Minister to confirm • because I think the Minister has said something a little wrong, because we certainly need to be clear about who can expect to receive the aid if it is not true that the right thing is those who have been given a commitment to support at this time, who can be absolutely sure that they will also get their money, even if it is after 1 January?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154728	This is how it is practical and I read out: the draft law does not affect those who have received a decision from Energinet.dk until the end of this year. I hope that was a clear answer to that question. It was probably a little clearer than I might have just said in the introduction.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154748	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154751	I think that is what people needed to hear. I think the Minister came to say that those who were able to apply before the New Year would also be in the pot, and I am not sure that one can promise such a bloc altogether. But now we have been given complete clarity about what it is. And then I would just like to welcome the fact that, so to speak, the energy conciliation circle has come together again, and look forward to having good agreements over the coming years and not having to go through the discussions we have had in public about whether we can count on the agreements reached by a broad majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154823	Thank you for the question. I would say that it is also very important for both the government and me to continue with the broad consensus that has been reached in the field of energy. Despite the fact that there have been some elements of disagreement both in relation to the coastal wind turbines and some other things, one has to say that when one looks at the broad perspective, there is very, very broad agreement on where we are going with energy policy in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154846	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154906	The debate is open and I give the floor to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129154921	Thank you. I'm gonna take this table down so we can get to Pygmies too. Welcome to the new Minister for Social Affairs, or one might not really welcome it when the Minister has been sitting in Parliament all the time, but congratulations on what, in my poor opinion, is one of the most important posts at all in the High Things, namely the Ministry of Social Affairs, and then the children's area has also come on board. As a Social Democrat, it is one of the most important things at heart, namely precisely the children, and the fact that we can prevent the damage from growing too much. I look very much forward to the cooperation. We will have our battles, but I am also absolutely convinced that we will find common ground in relation to very much of what we need to deal with. You could say that this first bill is a very good example of that. It's not as big as some of the other things we're going to do together, but still. This is basically about upgrading supervision in relation to psychologists in Denmark, because as a society and community we have a responsibility to take care of those citizens who may be in a vulnerable situation and who need help. We also have a responsibility to ensure that our fellow citizens can be helped safely, knowing that those who help them are capable and responsible and conscientious. The bill we are discussing here today is intended to ensure that security. In addition, it aims to create greater transparency for citizens, so that you can choose an authorised psychologist. And it is not really a very old scheme in Denmark that we have authorized psychologists, so of course there is still some way to go in relation to also being able to do a supervision that meets what we want it to be able to live up to. Firstly, there are injunctions and stricter supervision. As it is today, the Psychologist's Board can only withdraw authorization either permanently or temporarily. With this bill, the Psychologist Board gets more tools in the toolbox, and we think that's a really good idea. Secondly, it is about the publication of several of the things I have just mentioned, among others. professional requirements, enhanced supervision and withdrawal of certificates. The draft law also gives the Psychologist Board the opportunity to publish decisions on serious criticism and professional injunctions and tightened supervision and abdication of authorisation, without making the psychologist, as it concerns, anonymous. It will of course be the case that personal data relating to the clients who have been in contact with the psychologist who have been given the authorization will be anonymised and it almost gives itself. Thirdly, the composition of the Psychology Board is changed. I have a few small comments to make on this and some of them I would really like the Minister to look at before we get to the second and third readings of the proposal, namely the part dealing with guidelines. The Psychologist Association has given a very thorough hearing answer and has also approached us rapporteurs, and I can see that they have also approached the Ministry. I'm sure you've thought about it, but some of the things we care about are that there have to be criteria on what basis you do a proper job as a psychologist. I agree, and that has also been the comment of the Ministry, that it should not be included in the legislation. It's okay. For us, however, it would be very important not to wait, as the Minister's reply says, for a practice to be followed in this area, but to make an announcement or guidance or something similar, so that you know what you have to do with it. And when we say, and when we think it is fair that the Psychologist Association says so, it is of course because you need to know what you have to deal with, and there it may take too long to wait for a practice to develop. Then there is something about the preparatory work. We would very much like there to be instructions that there should be a psychologist employed in the preparatory work, that is, the secretariat that needs to be provided. When we think it is reasonable, it is of course because, if you are to be able to call in special staff, it could be a child's lawyer in relation to children's cases. After all, it is a good idea that you should not do it at the meeting itself, where you sit and deal with the matter, because then it will delay the matter. There is already a long way to go when we talk about children's cases, so we should avoid that. And that is where we think it requires that it is not, for example. a lawyer who sits and deals with matters, but that it is actually someone who has the professional knowledge in order to be able to point out what extra expertise we need to have in dealing with these things. The last thing I want to mention is that we believe that children should have a voice in this. It is also a point which the Psychologists' Association has pointed out and which we think is quite reasonable, namely that there must of course be a child's voice, because the vast majority of the cases dealt with in the mention are children's cases. That is when there have been child experts in the past, for example. housing cases, which are one of the most serious and intrusive things we can do as a society at all, both in terms of protecting a child, but also in terms of how intrusive it is in the family where we go in and place. So these are three points on which we would like to hear the Minister's reply, either now or in the second and third readings, in relation to whether we could perhaps come closer to each other in order to resolve those issues. We could see that for example. Children's Terms got a place. But fundamentally, we are in agreement. We think it is very good that an initiative is being taken to strengthen supervision in this area, and that is why, if we can talk about solutions in these areas, I imagine that we will end up supporting the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129155443	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129155447	Thank you. Overall, I very much agree with the rapporteur's observations on this proposal. The concerns mentioned by the rapporteur are also some that we share in the Enhedslisten, which is why I would just like to hear about something, because I think that some of what is very crucial in relation to this is precisely to be able to guarantee legal certainty both for the citizens and also for the psychologists who may be affected by it. There I think it is a rather unfortunate practice, just as the rapporteur also mentioned, to wait for some practical decisions from the title, that we cannot clarify in advance which criteria should be decided upon. Does the rapporteur agree that it must be a condition for us to be able to implement this legislative proposal, that we should have a completely clear decision on the decisions that the Council has to take?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129155538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129155539	If I were the minister, I would just say: yes, that is a condition. I am not the minister, and that means that this is a debate. I cannot decide that on behalf of some majority in this Parliament. But yes, it is the case that for the Social Democrats it is essential that there should be those guidelines, because otherwise we think that it is problematic for the mentioned to work and, moreover, is an unfair situation. Of course it will be so. After all, we are so used to the fact that there are practical decisions, because things have been there for 50 years, and then a practice has developed, and I really like that one is based on practice. But it is clear that when we are dealing with a field where we do not have 100 years' experience of how we deal with this, we need to get some guidelines first, and I would like to say to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that I find it very difficult to imagine that the Minister is rejecting it blankly. So let us now hear what the Minister has to say, but I wonder if we can find some solution to this problem because what it requires is guidance and announcements and, as I see the main objection to this by the Ministry, it is a question of not having it in the legislative text, and I do not think it is appropriate to do so. So I wonder if we can find something where psychologists know quite firmly what it is they have to deal with what is good psychological practice. I am absolutely convinced that this will be listened to, but we will have to hear that when the Minister goes on later.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129155657	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129155659	At any rate, then, I can say that we have two broad lines of approach, both that we have another minister with another observer in the post, and that it is really, really important that we ensure that there is legal certainty both in relation to psychologists, but also in relation to citizens, because it is a kind of case which is quite delicate and where it has to be said that it is important that it is absolutely clear from the outset which criteria are the basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129155723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129155725	I would find it extremely unhappy if we ended up in a situation where a psychologist, for example. A few years later, when a practice had been developed, you could see that it was completely up to the weather. That's what concerns you if you don't have some guidelines, plus that I really think it's a little uncertain for a psychologist to have to work in a field where you don't know what it is you can get fucked on, so to say where you think you're conducting an ethically sound practice, but then you risk being overruled without knowing in advance that you could be denied it. So I totally agree with that. By the way, I have heard from the Liberal Alliance that there have been elections. It is not quite reflected in who has the power, which it would have done if it had actually been there but it is a completely different talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129155808	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. And the next is Mrs Pernille Bendixen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129155818	Thank you. One pygmy can then follow the other; we are also called the same thing, and we also agree, so where does it go? I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the new minister with whom I have fortunately worked before. I think that this can only be a good cooperation, because I know the Minister as being open, result-oriented and listening, and I hope, of course, that it will continue here after you have become a minister. As far as the proposal is concerned, we agree with the guidelines. In other words, more openness, more transparency in cases where there is serious criticism or a withdrawal of authorisation, both citizens and the public are better able to make a qualified choice when choosing a psychologist. This is immediately positive, and it also follows the developments in health. Unfortunately, there is uncertainty about the criteria on which the award of criticism is based, just as the breadth of the expert qualifications in the mention is not sufficient, as the Danish Psychologist Association also points out in their hearing response. We should listen to this, since the Danish Psychologist Association is the one who has the professional expertise. After all, we all agree that we would like to strengthen the mention, and that is why we should also take note of the criticisms that are being made. We share the concern as to whether the professional knowledge is present in the board, since each case has to call for a specific knowledge. In particular, we are very sorry that organisations in the field of children do not have a permanent place. Many cases, most cases are about children, and it is absolutely crucial that we ensure professionalism and that it is present in such cases. We would therefore like to recommend that we think twice and possibly put it together in a different way, possibly find another solution. I don't want to be clever about that, but we certainly suggest that you take the Danish Psychologist Association with you. We think it is worth taking note of the fact that the association points out that they are very positive about the proposal, but that they have difficulty in setting out the framework for when to give criticism and how to act properly so as not to receive the criticism. The explanations may be many, but that doesn't change the fact that this is how they perceive it. And, of course, if you are to receive criticism, it is crucial that you know where the framework is for when the criticism hits. We are therefore in favour of the proposal as a starting point, but we do believe that it can be even better if we all find each other, in other words together with the organisations involved. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129160047	That's what we say. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Bendixen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129160056	Thank you, President. Thank you. Here too, a welcome to the new minister is to be welcomed. I agree with what Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil said about the fact that we have a common desire to always find solutions, broad conciliation, where we go for the content of a case, pluses and minuses, and I am sure that will continue. This proposal on psychologists is also an expression of that. It is the modernisation of a law from the early 1990s, 1993, as I recall, and the aim is to create a better framework for the Psychologist Board to supervise, and, in the light of that supervision, there is talk of a publicity system which also has a value in relation to the citizens' ability to have transparency, transparency, in relation to what is inherent in the possible actions and barn of individual psychologists. Then, in order to make this clear, there is a decision-making power, a look at the composition, and there may be the dilemma that one wants to have decision-making power, that is to say fewer members, and then on the other hand one wants to have a professional width. I am sure that this will be dealt with in a subsequent discussion. Then there are the criteria for criticism, and here too I think it is part of the picture that, with regard to the concerns that have been raised, we have just listened from the Ministry to the intention of obliging the Psychologist's Board to give an annual report which tells us exactly what it is that has been considered and had of views that they are obliged to publish guidance guidelines on the duties of authorised psychologists. This is the framework that has to be pursued, and it may be possible to make it even more clear in the further work, but I am very, very much in agreement with those who have also said that it is not clear in legislation what a recognised professional standard is, and in the health sector it is certainly not the case that generally accepted professional standards have been clarified. The Left supports the proposal, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129160345	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129160348	I do not think that we are yet in a position to respond. So I don't quite know if I should hear it as if I was about to say by the government, but there have been a little more parties, so I have to get rid of that again. I want to look at it a little more. Because there's exactly that part. It is true that the word glass clear may be an exaggeration, I admit, but we can, in the best of our knowledge, come closer to taking something in than just the legislative text that is now in place. Did I hear it correctly if I heard the rapporteur say that there could be some more guidance on what we are talking about? I admit that it does not make it clear, but we are getting closer to the fact that there are some guidelines. I hope that's what I heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129160436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129160437	That is what the questioner heard. But then I just think it was part of the picture that the ministry's comments, that is, in the consultation note, point out that it has been received here and that it has also been addressed in relation to some of the things that I think should also be mentioned for the sake of completeness. Because it almost made it sound as if there were no guidelines at all in relation to the Psychology Board's work today. That's just the picture I wanted nuanced. Frameworks and criteria, of course, need to be safe because they are firm, so that they are not just something that hovers from time to time. That is why you have annual reporting or publication. And about the composition, I also said that I think we can meet around getting the two immediate opposite wishes to go hand in hand with decision-making power, but of course also that professionalism must be widely represented.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129160542	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129160543	The latter, I think, was very clear, but I am still concerned when the rapporteur refers to the consultation note. Because that's actually what worried me. But we can also spend a little more time on that in committee work. However, it is precisely the consultation note that worries me, namely that the Ministry places just a little too much emphasis on practice, that is, that it is on the basis of practice and what develops over time. It may well be, because I read what the hell reads the Bible, that I should not be able to reject it, but it is important to me that we talk more about what we are talking about, that there is something more coming than that which is just the text of the law. I heard the rapporteur say that too, but I was worried about that with reference to the consultation note. But that is what we take into account in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129160619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129160621	The questioner himself mentions that she might read what the hell reads the Bible. I would not deny that she may be right. But at least I fully agree that we have an interest in security. And finally, in the further work, let's get this security in relation to getting the fence in, that there must of course be this room that we agree on, but there must of course also be some clarity in relation to what kind of framework you work in. Actually, I don't think we're that far apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129160659	Thank you, sir. Carl Holst. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129160709	Thank you. The Enhedslisten is immediately in favour of modernising the Psychology Act. It is reasonable that the Psychologist Board should be given the opportunity to apply stricter supervision and injunctions in cases where an authorised psychologist has shown serious or repeated critical professional activity. We agree with the publication of serious criticism, injunctions, increased supervision and sanctions against authorised psychologists. This will improve the ability of citizens and authorities to make the right choice of psychologist. But the bill suffers from serious shortcomings in other areas. In order to strengthen the powers of the Psychologist Board as proposed, this requires clarity on the professional and ethical criteria on which the Board must work and take decisions. Not only do we owe this to the individual psychologist, but it must be clear to the psychologists what to do in their work if they want to avoid sanctions, but we also owe it to the citizens and authorities who have to take advantage of the psychologists' work. Everyone needs to know what psychologists have to live up to professionally and ethically. It is not only an elementary principle of legal certainty that must be respected, it is also common sense and it will help to enhance the work and reputation of the stand. We believe that in the Enhedslisten the Minister has not solved that task with the proposed bill. According to the bill, an authorized psychologist must exercise care and care or care and conscientiousness. I think it should be a matter of course. But it should also be a matter of course that if such concepts are included in a law which equips a board with far-reaching powers to sanction, then there must be some sources of law which clarify what these concepts mean and how they are to be used in the work of the Board. We cannot find that in the draft law or in the comments. In his reply to the Danish Psychologist Association, the Minister merely replies that it must be stated in the practice of the jury. That is not good enough when you look at the powers with which it is endowed. Nor do we agree with the proposal on the size and composition of the name. It's a bad idea to narrow down the list. It is reasonable to have a judge for the table end, but there is no factual reason why KL and Danske Regions should be shared for a seat. Similarly, there is no representation of organisations which take care of the interests of parents and children, despite the fact that children's cases constitute the majority of the cases dealt with by the mention. There is a lack of a clear obligation to involve the necessary psychological expertise in the handling of cases. This should also be a requirement when looking at the powers given to it. It must be the case that the more powers conferred on a board or authority, the greater the need for transparency and clarity on professional and ethical criteria for individual legal certainty and for professional quality in work. The bill doesn't live up to that. The consequences can easily become arbitrariness in the decisions and frustration of citizens, authorities and psychologists and incomprehensible decisions. We believe that the Danish Psychologist Association has made a number of good suggestions on how to improve the law. It must be recognised that the Ministry has accepted some of them, but it is not enough to correct the fundamental shortcomings which have been described here. We would particularly like to draw attention to the Psychologists' Association's proposal to set up a Psychological Council and to the proposal that the law should not enter into force until a working group has described the basic academic principles and criteria on which it should work. We cannot therefore support the draft law in its present form, but we will be asking a number of questions and perhaps also amendments in the hope that the law can be improved to a degree so that we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129161057	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no comments. We move on to Mr. Danny K. Malkowski of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129161108	Thank you very much. I would also like to take this opportunity briefly to congratulate the new post and welcome back to the Folketing. I look forward very much to the cooperation in this for my part, however, for the next three weeks before I have to leave Parliament again. But it's gonna be okay. The proposal here will create a clear framework for supervision and sanctions in relation to authorised psychologists. The Psychologist Board will be given the opportunity to instruct a psychologist to change his or her activities if the psychologist has committed serious or repeated offences. It is also proposed that criticism and injunctions should be published unanonymised. Finally, various organizational changes also enter the Psychology Board. In the view of the Liberal Alliance, it is natural that there should be some supervision of authorised psychologists and appropriate sanctions. Nowadays, the Psychologist's Board can completely deprive a psychologist of an authorisation, but the board has sought milder sanctions for cases that show a dubious behavior, which is not strong enough to deprive the person concerned of the authorisation. We think that makes sense. At the same time, a system will be introduced to publish decisions on serious criticism and professional injunctions and enhanced supervision. It is a breach of the practice of the health system where decisions are published anonymously. But you have quite different options for choosing a different psychologist if you do not trust him after having read a serious criticism than you have with other health professionals. That is why we also believe that it makes good sense to publish a criticism and to let users decide on their own choice of psychologist on an enlightened basis. In view of this, the Liberal Alliance can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129161236	Thank you, sir. Danny K. Malkowski. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129161245	Thank you. Here too, welcome to the new minister. It was a relatively short pleasure last time, but it was a good pleasure, so I don't think it's gonna work. The purpose of this bill is to create greater security and transparency for citizens and authorities in the choice of authorised psychologist. That means, among other things, that...: 1) extension of the scope of the Psychologist Board to supervise the possibility of using, (a) enhanced supervision, and (b) injunctions in cases where an authorised psychologist has shown serious and repeated critical professional activity. In addition, 2) the publication system so that citizens and authorities can see whether an authorized psychologist has received serious or repeated criticism or has received his or her authorization, similar to what is being done in the field of health, 3) changes in the composition of the Psychologist Board in order to strengthen the effectiveness of the Board and to strengthen proportionally the psychological competences of the Board by maintaining the right of the Danish Psychologist Association to nominate 2 members, while the number of other members of the Board is reduced from 7 to 3. These are the three points I would like to highlight here. In the alternative, we are pleased that the legislation provides for a more up-to-date supervisory system in relation to authorised psychologists. We support the purpose of the draft law, but our final vote will depend on the outcome of the committee's work. It is about two things in particular. Firstly, the Danish Psychologist Association and the Danish Psychologist Association's Society for Children's Experts expressed great concern in their response to the bill for the lack of operationalisation of the criteria for commenting on criticism of the psychologist's work. This has led to changes in the present draft law, which obliges the Psychologist Board to keep up with its practice by reporting and issuing guidance guidelines to ensure clarity about expectations of the psychological quality of the psychologists' work and the details of the obligations under the Psychologist Act. It is basically good that the Ministry has responded to the said consultation answer, but we want to find out in the committee's work whether this solution is sufficient. Secondly, the extension of the Psychologists' Board's supervisory framework and the publication system are welcomed by the consultation parties. However, support for the special publication scheme is conditional on ensuring greater quality, particularly psychologically, in the work of the Board than it is considered that the proposed composition of the Boards can provide. The concern for efficiency in the work of the Psychologist Board is feared to go beyond the quality, as reduction in the number of board members means less breadth and poorer representation of the stakeholder groups who are recipients of psychologists' services in brackets employers and companies • like the Danish Psychologist Association, the Danish Psychologist Association's Society for Children's Experts and the Red Child would like to see the strengthening of the psychological competence done by increasing the number of professionals. That seems to me to be quite wise. In the light of the criticisms made, the Ministry has provided for the possibility of obtaining expert assistance in the proceedings and the President may provide that special experts or others may participate without the right to vote in the proceedings of the Board. We want to find out in the committee's work whether this solution is sufficient to ensure the quality of the trial or whether we really should look at some of the other proposed models with several different members of the Psychology Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129161619	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil No, there are no brief comments from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur seems to be Mr. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129161635	First of all, congratulations to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs for becoming Minister for Children and Social Affairs. In the Radical Left, we think that children are one of the most important things we have, and we are also looking forward to working with the new Triple Government to see if we can find a room to invest in the future of our children and, in particular, to come in and discuss some of the educational savings with you. But now we have to discuss the Psychological Act, and I am going to say on behalf of the rapporteur, who is usually the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mrs Marianne Jelved, that the Radical Left supports the bill with the following comments: The aim of the law is to create greater security and transparency for both citizens and authorities who stand and have to choose an authorised psychologist who complies with the psychological obligations of the Psychological Act. It is the Psychology Board that supervises psychologists. The Board of Appeal shall have jurisdiction to apply supervisory measures such as enhanced supervision and injunctions in cases where there has been serious criticism. A publication system is established in which everyone can see whether a psychologist has received serious criticism, has received an injunction or is under enhanced supervision, as well as the reason for this. In this way psychologists are equated with doctors, physiotherapists and other similar professional groups. This allows citizens and authorities to see which psychologists comply with the psychological guidelines. Against this background, the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129161824	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. The next hov, there was a short comment at the last minute, and that is from Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party. We'll take that with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129161834	Thank you very much. It's just a question for clarification. Now I understand that you are not the usual rapporteur in this area, so you are forgiven in advance if you cannot answer the question. However, the other rapporteurs have raised a number of concerns about this proposal, and then it is obvious that the Radical Left may also share those concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129161853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129161855	I am pleased that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party gives me the opportunity to seek forgiveness. I will, because some of you here know Mrs Marianne Jelved, and I think it is best to let her answer those questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129161913	Thank you. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129161921	In fact, I would also like to begin by welcoming our new minister. I also look forward to cooperation. As a citizen, it must be transparent to choose an authorised psychologist, so that you can be comfortable with the professional quality, whether in the case of studies, treatment or other psychological services. For the psychology profession, it is important to safeguard the confidence in their practice. The Psychologist Act needs to be revised and clarified in relation to the Psychologist Board's supervision, competence and organisation. In the SF, we believe that it is in line with developments in the rest of the health sector that serious criticism can be made public. However, there must be clarity about the criteria on which the criticism is based. Psychologists must carry out their practices with care, conscientiousness and impartiality, but what does that mean? What are the professional and ethical aspects of the psychologist's work that are assessed in the Psychology Board? It is important for the SF that it is made explicit and concrete in the guidelines of the Order and the Guide, so no one can be in doubt about what lies behind the Psychologist Board's criticism decisions, which may lead to enhanced supervision or injunctions, and which will be published. Otherwise, there will be an uncertain legal situation where there is no clarity as to what is behind sanctions and criticism of the psychological quality. The Danish Psychologist Association proposes in their hearing answer that a committee be set up with representatives from the jury and the Psychologist Association, which can describe these guidelines. I think that's a good idea, but there could be other ways. In any case, it is important that it is insight into the psychological work which is behind the assessments of the cases dealt with by the Psychologist Board. Very often these are cases where a psychological examination is a crucial document in a case of e.g. compulsory detention, parental responsibility and association, or other decisions of authority which are of great importance to the individual citizen. Therefore, it is also important that the composition of the board takes into account that the field of work of psychologists is very wide, and it requires different psychological skills to assess a case, depending on whether it, for example, is relevant. is a child-sacrificing study, a statement relating to a pension case, a course of therapy or an organizational Consultant's task. That is why, in the SF, we also share the concern about whether there are the necessary qualifications in the board if the number of members is reduced. It is good that the members of the Board should be able to call experts on specific cases, but is that enough? We could, among other things. I would like it to be ensured that there was a permanent representation from one of the children's organisations, both because children's cases take up a great deal of the work of the jury, but also in view of the fact that the government, at least the one we had a few days ago, has planned changes in relation to the treatment of divorce cases, which must ensure both a one-tier system and the quality of the decisions. Children's experts play a major role here. In addition, we support the Psychologist Association's wish that there should be expert assistance in the preparation of cases. This can help to ensure that the mention focuses on the most important aspects of their treatment. So SF sees the need for it and supports a revision of the Psychological Law, but hopes that in committee we can continue to work on the issues mentioned so that the review can actually meet the objective of transparency, security and clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129162308	Thank you. There are no brief comments. I should also like to extend a warm welcome to Mrs Mai Mercado, who has the right title of Minister for Children and Social Affairs in the future. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129162328	Thank you very much for your welcome back, I would like to say, and also thank you for the debate. It is, of course, like entering directly into a very good social policy discussion again, where it is the good arguments that count. I just want to say that I enjoy it and that I think it is a really, really good and constructive way we start. So I would very much like to sign for that, and I can already see that there is good support for the draft law, but that some concerns are also expressed. The bill contains such a major modernisation of the Psychology Act, and this has been outlined very well. It is of course particularly important that we put in place this publication system, which is intended to protect citizens so that they can make their choice of psychologist on a more secure and free basis. It is also important that, with the proposed amendments, we create the right framework and tools for the Psychologist Board, so that the mention can also deal with serious matters professionally and thus also to a greater extent protect citizens. In fact, I do not think there is any disagreement about that here either. Then I understand that a question is being raised about the Members of the Council. To that I would just like to say that today there are Members, among others. ministerial representatives, who would only be able to provide special expert knowledge in individual cases. I really mean that with this bill, the Psychology Board and every member of the Psychology Board can obtain expert assistance. I think that is quite, quite important, because what I hear as the common wish is that we should strengthen the professionalism of this. The next one, where a small flag of concern is raised in this way too, and I understand that, too, is about increasing the use of guidelines and criteria. It is worth noting that after the external consultation a section 17a (a) has been inserted. 4 which thus says that the Psychologist Board once a year gives a report on its activities. And the Psychologist's Board is required to publish guidance on the duties of authorised psychologists according to Chapter 2 of the Act, and Chapter 2 of the Act is then the content of the bill. In other words, this guideline is written in. Now, of course, there is a very good opportunity to go back to committee and I hope that all the committee members will do so and see if the draft law meets the expectations of these guidelines. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think it is fantastic to stand here again and be allowed to discuss social policy. I can feel the enthusiasm, and that is the blood of the hearts of all those who are sitting in this Chamber today. So thank you very much for the debate. And I hope there will be questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129162633	It remains to be hoped in this round. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129162658	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Magnus Heunicke of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129162730	Thank you for that, President. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to welcome and congratulate the new Minister on the very exciting area here. I look forward very much to our cooperation, which I am absolutely sure will be good. The draft law we are discussing here is a draft law which has been created on the basis of justified criticism from the State auditors, who came just under a year ago, of the supervision of the municipalities by the State Administration. The criticism was that there was far too long a time for proceedings, but also that there was a lack of opportunity for prioritising the work of the State Administration, and that is the criticism the government is trying to correct here with this bill. In concrete terms, the government proposes that a more flexible framework be created in order to raise a supervisory case so that it will be possible for the State Administration to prioritize the important tasks and to raise more topical matters of its own motion. And I have to say that I think that, as a starting point, it sounds positive, if that means that the funds can be given better priority. But I would also like to say at the first reading of the draft law that it is equally interesting to know which tasks will then be sorted out. In preparation for the law, it is stated that, among other things, it... These are cases where it is estimated that the outcome of the State Administration's investigation and treatment will have no real impact on citizens. So these are matters that are being spent too long on today, without having any real impact on the citizen. It makes sense, of course, if it can be done better and smarter, but I would like to say at first reading that we need to go deeper, so that we are very keen on which matters are sorted out, because when we give priority to something, we also need to give priority to something, and it must therefore be useful to put it into practice in the further work before we finally adopt a position on the legislative proposal. I would just like to conclude by saying that there is another part of the bill which may be in the slightly more curious section, but which is nevertheless also important, namely to allow the members of the city council and the municipal board to receive travel allowances when they make a civil marriage, of which there was apparently 16.506 last year. It is, of course, relevant enough that one can be allowed to cover one's costs in connection with the important work. We fully support that part. The second part, we're gonna have to drill a little bit more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129163016	Thank you, sir. Magnus Heunicke. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129163028	Thank you for that and, above all, congratulations to Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, now sir. Minister. I look forward to good cooperation with the Minister. This bill is made up of two parts. The first part deals with the reimbursement of travel expenses to members of the municipal council in the event of civil marriages and is intended to support the continued commitment of members of the municipal council to this task. The draft law provides for the possibility for a municipal council to decide to grant travel allowances to municipal councillors engaged in civil marriages. The majority of the country's municipalities have for a number of years managed to ensure that members of the municipal council engaged in civil marriages can receive transport allowances in connection with the performance of these duties. Now it's legalized, and that's very good. The second part of the bill deals with the selection of supervisory cases by the State Administration as part of municipal supervision and aims to allow the State Administration to better target its supervision on those cases which the State Administration considers most important from an overall assessment. The State administration will be given a more flexible framework when assessing whether there is an opportunity to raise a supervisory case. The State administration has a duty today to look at all illegal practices that are not trivial and that affect the state of law today. The change instead requires the State Administration to assess whether a case is generally suitable to support the overall purpose and function of the municipal supervision. The general purpose of municipal supervision is to ensure the State's interest in local authorities and regions complying with the law when exercising power. It must support the ability of the State Administration to act proactively, including raising cases of its own motion, and in this way, overall, could help the State Administration to take on a greater and more topical role in clarifying the legality of the activities of the municipalities and regions. This part of the bill is part of the follow-up to the State auditors' criticism of the State Administration, i.e. the report, which came in 2015. The criticism of the State auditors was strong but also justified and was that the State administration's supervision of the municipalities was insufficient and that the State administration's organisation of supervisory tasks was not sufficiently targeted and effective. Thus, the State auditors found it to be critical that the processing times were so long that illegal practices could continue for several years while the municipality was waiting for a decision; that the supervisory cases were not prioritized, but are dealt with primarily on the basis of the order in which they are received; that the supervisory task is not prioritized according to where there is the greatest risk of breaches of law and where this could have significant consequences; that in few cases the State administration's data support the efficient use of resources or allow internal control and planning of supervisory tasks; that the State administration only includes a few opinions on its website, although more extensive disclosure could prevent similar supervisory cases. For example: the State administration will be able to choose to deal with cases where the person or persons involved do not have sufficient resources or profits to bring a case before the State administration, or where the person or persons involved have obtained undue benefits which they do not therefore have any reason to go further. The command function shall continue to be maintained. It means that, where necessary, the State administration will be able to impose on a municipality or region such as: refuse to comply with a binding decision of a special appeal or supervisory authority to do so. I think that is very important, but I also think that it is important to use the function of the Guardian, and there I also have a number of clarifying questions that I would like to put in committee. It is also important for the Danish People's Party that we ensure that there is an evaluation of this law, so that we can just keep in mind whether this legislation will also work as intended, also as regards whether it is adequate in relation to the criticism of the State auditors. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129163457	There is a brief comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129163502	Thank you. There are many elements in the rapporteur's speech that I fully agree with, but there are some things that I think are worrying about here, and it is true that the State auditors have expressed a great deal of criticism of the work of the State Administration, but the accountants themselves do not, of course, point to the need for a change in law in relation to this. The state administration has the opportunity to take matters up on its own. Does not the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party share the concern that this will actually mean that there are some cases that the State Administration does not address, because with the powers that come into the new legislation here, you have the opportunity to say that, since it is not someone that is of great importance, you choose not to take them up? These may, of course, be matters which may not be of social importance but which affect the individual parties affected by them. And there could be the solution instead, because the State auditors also point out that it is a question of resource shortages, precisely to provide the State Administration with more resources, rather than restricting their operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129163602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129163604	Yes, I can be concerned about how the legislation will work in practice. I often am, and that is why I think it is very good that we should have an evaluation of how it works in practice as well. As far as this is concerned, I understand that the State Administration then refers the cases to the appropriate body, among other things. if it can be the Ankestyrelsen or anyone else who can handle the complaint which then comes from outside, regardless of who is complaining and that the complaint can then be referred to the appropriate body. But that is something we need to be asked about in committee to find out exactly how it will work in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129163641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129163644	In any case, I am glad to hear that the rapporteur also has that concern. We must then try to see in the committee's work what that means in concrete terms. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur does not agree that it is at least important that there should still be an opportunity to deal with the types of cases that are coming up in the State Administration today, including cases that the State Administration itself chooses to take up on its own behalf.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129163704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129163706	Well, I think it is important that in the work of the committee we are of course asked what it will mean quite specifically in practice, precisely as I said in my rapporteur's speech, whether this is adequate in terms of the criticism of the auditors of the state. Now I have not been able to see any consultation answer from them, but it was certainly relevant if there was a consultation answer from them so that you could follow up on that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129163731	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129163739	Thank you, President. I would like to start by congratulating the new Minister warmly on his post and work and on all the good things he has done in the future. I hope that, in one way or another, the ways of cooperation will meet. In concrete terms, this draft law is concerned with two elements. One, and most importantly, is the selection of cases by the State Administration. In the wake of this, another element has also been included, namely transportation in connection with marriages. Both elements have been well described by the two previous rapporteurs, and I will make very few comments on the element of the draft law relating to the case selection of the State Administration. The purpose is precisely for the State Administration to be able to be more proactive and to raise matters of principle, of its own motion, and to have a greater and more topical role in the State Administration in relation to the clarification of questions. As far as I am concerned, I would also like to see a look at the length of the proceedings in the wake of the legislative proposal and to emphasise, as the previous rapporteur also pointed out, that there should not be bodies which have the same complaints and that, precisely when a complaint is received, an appeal which has been sent in error is sent to the right place. For me, this is not a question of saving money; for me, it is a question of giving muscle to the State Administration based on the criticism raised by the State auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129163952	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129163955	I just want to hear from the rapporteur what is preventing the State Administration from raising matters of its own motion today. As I read the bill, the State Administration is not given any new powers in terms of being able to raise cases of its own motion. It's an opportunity that the State Administration already has today, but you only rarely take advantage of it because you don't have the resources for what you have so many cases in advance. But that's not gonna solve this bill. So, today, the state administration can raise matters of its own motion, so where is it that the muscle force, as the rapporteur puts it, lies?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164026	It is because the draft law makes it clear that it is matters of principle that are not everything to be pursued, but it is matters of principle on which one must focus one's attention. That is why I use the expression that you are becoming more proactive in being able to raise cases of your own motion, but not understood in the sense that that is what the draft law was about. That being said...
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164049	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164053	Is it okay if I keep going?
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164055	Yes, the rapporteur must finish his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164058	Thank you, President-in-Office, I also took a long break, I acknowledge that. Having said that, it is also important that we make it clear that this should not end with relevant matters falling away, for which I sensed a concern. Of course, we must find that security in further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164121	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164123	Thank you. Well, my concern is a little that if you do not provide the State Administration with more resources and give the State Administration the opportunity to opt out of some cases, then there will be some cases that have been decided in the past by the State Administration, but which now do not, because you can say that they do not have a general meaning. However, they may of course have a specific meaning for some citizens or for a municipality, and we may not be able to deal with such matters now. Therefore, I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether it would not be better, knowing that it is a question of a lack of resources, to give more resources to the State Administration so that they could get this casework done away with, and still maintain away the high level of legal certainty that lies in complaining to the State Administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164207	I do not think it is a question of crowns and ears, I think it is a question of saying that something is grain and something is chaff, and the state administration focuses on kernels.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164220	Thank you, sir. Carl Holst. There is no one else who would like to make a brief comment, so we shall move on to Mr Seligman's question. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164236	Thank you. Then we were given the opportunity to discuss the work of the President. I would like to say that, in the case of Enhedslisten, we can support the one part of the legislative proposal which deals with the possibility for municipal councils to grant transport allowances to municipal councillors who are engaged in civil marriages. I guess it was just missing, so it can only go too slowly to secure a legal basis for that sort of thing. On the other hand, the Enhedslisten cannot support the second part of the bill, which deals with so-called targeting of State Administration's selection of cases. Behind this alleged targeting is a weakening of the legal certainty of citizens and companies and organisations. The current text states that the State Administration decides whether there are sufficient grounds for raising a supervisory case. The draft law will change the appropriate basis for a sufficient opportunity to raise a supervisory case. For many ordinary mortals it will probably be a limited difference in the two wordings, and one must then go down in the comments to the text to see that it is actually relatively far-reaching. The comments to the law in force state that the State administration has a duty to investigate cases where there is a certain likelihood of unlawfulness, which is not negligible and which has an impact on the state of law today. However, this obligation must not be given to the State Administration in the future if it is up to the Minister and the bill. In other words, this means that the State administration no longer has an obligation to investigate cases, although it is likely that this is an unlawful act which is not trivial and even if the case is of current legal importance. We do not find that reassuring. It's kind of a confession case, too. The Minister himself writes that the changes will lead to the rejection of several cases, such as municipalities, regions, organisations, citizens and others. I should like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. It is certainly not good if the rejected cases are about more than trivial illegalities and if they are cases of importance to the legal situation today, but these are the sort of cases that the State Administration is now allowed to reject. This clear deterioration in legal certainty is being tried on the grounds that in February 2016, the State auditors made a strong criticism of the State Administration, including: because of excessively long processing times and lack of prioritising of supervisory cases in relation to where there is the greatest risk of breaches of law. The state auditors considered that the State Administration should be more proactive. We can only agree with that, but there is no need to change the law to achieve that. There is nothing in the applicable legal text or in the comments to it that prevents the State Administration from being more proactive and looking at cases of general interest. In fact, it says that the State Department should. It is also worth noting that the State auditors had no recommendations to limit the field of operation of the State Administration. There is only one thing that prevents the State Administration from being more proactive, and that is the lack of resources that the State Administration has been suffering for a long time. In fact, we have jointly recognised that structural change was not optimal, that it resulted in unacceptablely long processing times and that the State administration should therefore be given more resources. This is probably also due to the fact that during the same period several reforms have been introduced, which have a major, intrusive impact on the human economy. Then, of course, there will be more complaints. But that is where we have to take action instead of weakening the State Administration's obligation to ensure that municipalities and regions comply with the law. The Enhedslisten shall vote against if the Minister maintains that the weakening of the State Administration's obligation to investigate cases of illegality and cases of current legal interest shall be part of the bill. In conclusion, I regret that I did not welcome the Minister. In fact, I forgot about that for the previous minister too, so the Minister must welcome the Minister for Social Affairs at the next ministerial meeting. But welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164642	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. The next one is sir. Danny K. Malkowski of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164648	Now it should not be said that I am the only rapporteur who does not congratulate the new minister, so although I have done so three times in the past, I will take the opportunity in this Chamber to do so again. I look forward very much to the cooperation, if only to such a bill as this, where the main focus is to reduce the processing times, which is liberal heart blood. As you know, the proposal has two parts, the first of which concerns the possibility for municipalities to grant transport allowances to municipal councillors who are engaged in civil marriages. It has already been the practice of a large part of the municipalities to pay the compensation, so the proposal merely ensures that this practice will also be legal. In the view of the Liberal Alliance, it is a municipal matter to choose whether to pay transport allowances when civil marriages are made. The second part of the proposal, as I have said, is a reduction in processing times by giving the State Administration greater flexibility in selecting those cases which they consider most important to supervise first. This is a follow-up to a criticism by the State auditors criticising the times of proceedings and that insufficient priority is given to cases. The Liberal Alliance can support both elements and will therefore, of course, also vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164752	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164800	Thank you. I stand here on behalf of our usual rapporteur, Torsten Gejl, who unfortunately could not be here. It gives me the pleasure of being able to congratulate the Minister. I will try to be stand-in as many times as I can on this committee. Now we'll see if that's possible. Like the other parties, we are also very positive about the first part of the proposal on the transport allowance, and that is a clear yes. Conversely, we are in a position where we are probably very sceptical about the second part. We see the ambition as good, as has been said from several quarters, but we need to see who is falling through the grate. In other words, we have seen that there are good examples among those who are blocking the right time to reach things, that there are simply some who might not have been sent. But who's gonna sit here and assess this? How is that supposed to happen? How many mistakes and shortcomings will there be? We have already seen sensible material on it, but we will look even deeper into it. Then we actually have a principle that means that we're talking in the direction that this is positive. And if we can now get over a hurdle that makes it more efficient and thus saves some money so that we can deliver a better service, then that is clearly good. But, as I have said, we are not sure who it is this is going to go beyond, which is why we are unsure whether we can back up. At the same time, there is a fine deal in relation to the scanning process that lies ahead. As we have understood so far, there may be something to come after there by not doing this pre-scan. But otherwise we're also interested in finding out if you're actually contributing something new with this bill. So we can't report anything yet, but we're skeptical.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164939	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next one is sir. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129164948	First of all, congratulations to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior in the mail. After all, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior and I know each other from the old days in Radical Youth, where he was President when I joined, and I am very pleased to remember that. So a big congratulations on the mail. I can then start his career as Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior by announcing that the Radical Left supports the bill. The first part is about allowing municipalities to grant driving allowances to municipal councillors for civil marriages. We think this is sensible, because we can also see from the consultation answers that some municipalities have had difficulty in getting council members to take civil marriages, simply because it has been a cost to them why they have not. So we think it's a good idea. The second part of the bill is about giving the State Administration the opportunity to prioritise between the cases they run. I understand from the debate that has been going on so far that some would like more resources to be allocated to state administrations so that it can generally go faster. I think that is fair enough to wish for that, but in the Radical Left we think it is a good idea that the State Administration should give priority to the cases that they now have, so that the most serious cases are those in which a citizen, for example. has come into contact with a municipality or any other community can be dealt with quickly so that the citizen can move on. And that is, of course, no matter how long the processing time is. So we think it is sensible, and we are also pleased that the government is following up the criticism that the Reichsaudit has made of that very fact. So we would really like to support the fact that it is being cleaned up. So there is support from the Radical Left for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129165147	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129165154	Thank you. Let me also take this opportunity to warmly welcome the new Minister, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. I'm looking forward to working together. There's no reason to thrive on this modest bill, except that it might have been usefully divided into two. I think it is a bad idea to include two very different proposals in the same proposal. After all, as others have mentioned, driving allowances to municipal marriages have, frankly, little to do with the general functioning of the State Administration, but this is a very good idea, which the SF backs up on. However, we believe that there is a need for us to get clear answers from the Minister in the forthcoming committee's work, in relation to whether there is a reduction in the citizens' ability to have a case brought in municipal supervision. In these words, we look forward to the committee's examination of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129165250	Thank you. Then we warmly welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129165300	Thank you very much. And thank you very much for the nice words all around from all the party rapporteurs on the occasion of my appointment. I would like to sign for that, and I would also like to suggest here that we have good cooperation across the parties in the Folketing. I have an interest in working well with everyone, no matter what political starting point you may have. The draft law we have dealt with here today is, after all, about two different things. Virtually all the rapporteurs have mentioned this. First of all, it's about this small part, which is about the transport allowance for municipal councillors who are going to have a civil marriage. There is a need to ensure that there is a legal basis for doing so and, as I understand it, there is full support on that issue, and I would like to sign for that. The draft law also has another element, which is that the State Administration should be given the opportunity to target municipal supervision towards cases which, based on an overall assessment of the importance of the matter for municipalities and regions, can be seen in a broader perspective. The background to this part of the draft law is a criticism from the State auditors, and that must always be taken seriously. There has been criticism of the strong criticism that the supervision of the municipalities by the State administration is inadequate and that the organisation of the supervisory tasks by the State administration is not sufficiently targeted and effective. Therefore, with this bill, we will support the state administration's ability to act more proactively, including raising cases of its own motion, and in this way, overall, we could help the State administration to take on a greater and more topical role in clarifying the legality of the activities of municipalities and regions. That should, of course, be a positive message, and I have also understood it by a majority of the rapporteurs. However, there are several who have different questions in relation to this part of the bill. Questions have been raised, for example. on the functions of the Danish People's Party and also in relation to the evaluation of the law from the same, and I would very much like to go further into a discussion with Mrs Karina Adsbøl and the other rapporteurs so that we can clarify the issues that may be involved. Then there are some who say: could we not just add more resources? Couldn't that just be the solution? At any rate, I would like to warn against the fact that we are simply looking blindly at putting more resources into the solution, understood in the sense that we are talking about the state administration spending time on a number of matters that they should not spend so much time on, and if there is something that is usually able to unite this thing across parties, it is that we should not waste public funds on too much bureaucracy that does not lead to anything in the real world. I would like to extend my hand to good cooperation in the Folketing, which is why I would also like to invite the rapporteurs to discuss these issues so that we can clarify what concerns we have. I hope, of course, that I can sweep them off the ground, and if I can't, if I can't make people feel more comfortable about this bill, which is a good proposal, then we have to have a dialogue on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129165642	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. Good luck with your work. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161129165705	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for their efforts in the service of the people, at least today. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 30 November 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer you to the agenda, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
