ParlaMint-DK_20161213130002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Karsten Hønge (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 32 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule, etc.). René Gade (ALT) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. Β 33 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on investor deductions for investment in entrepreneurship), motion for a resolution No. Β 34 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the release of pension funds for entrepreneurial investment), motion for a resolution No. B-35 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better opportunities and conditions for private lending to entrepreneurs, including through loan-based crowdfunding), motion for a resolution No. Β 36 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a higher ceiling for employee shares in entrepreneurship) and motion for a resolution No. B 37 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the release of funds from the savings accounts of selfemployed entrepreneurs for entrepreneurial investment). Liselott Blixt (DF) and others: Question No. F 18 (What information can the government provide about the state of our welfare community, namely the hospital system, including the latest information on, among other things: lack of resources for the birth area? ) and Query No. F 19 (Will the Minister explain how it is ensured that mentally ill people can be hospitalized when they need it and that they can remain in hospital until they are ready to be discharged?). Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen (S) and Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil (S): Request no. F 20 (Please explain the social impact of government policy on children and vulnerable groups, including the importance of the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and a low growth rate of 0.3 per cent. in the public sector.). The titles of the notified cases will be found in the Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on the Environment and Food has presented: Report on a growth and development package for Danish fisheries. 2. The account is shown in the Parliamentstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213130136	I have the great honour and pleasure of welcoming the Prime Minister for an introductory statement, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213130147	Thank you. Yesterday the party leaders gathered in the Prime Minister's Office and we reached an agreement on how we should deal with the situation that Denmark is slipping out of Europol on 1 May next year as a result of the referendum last year. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your support, which is important and which will put us in a strong position in the process that is now being set in motion. Because we may now have an agreement and we have an understanding with the Commission, but it is quite an agreement to get an agreement. We are based on decisions and processes that take place both in the Council of Ministers and in the European Parliament, and it is important that this is done on the basis of a united Danish Parliament. This means that on Thursday I will be able to meet with the President of the Commission and the President of the Council, and there will be an agreement on the process now under way which will hopefully lead, on 1 May, when we come out of Europol cooperation, to an operational cooperation agreement which is now satisfactory to the Danish police. But there is no reason to hide anything but that over time it will challenge us, also in the context of a number of other things, for example. our failure to be able to participate immediately in a European air passenger register. The developments taking place in the European Judicial Cooperation will challenge us, which is why it is also so important and so central that we have agreed yesterday that we must continuously and systematically follow up these issues, both in order to see whether there are places where we have to make compensatory measures organisationally or economically in relation to the Danish police, but also in order to decide whether the special agreements we now have are good enough, or whether there is a situation where we have to ask the public again, whether it was not wiser to go through the front door of Europol cooperation rather than finding a narrow way in through the back door. For the government, it is crucial that we give our police the best possible conditions. It is also something which, on a painful basis, is clear to all of us on top of the terrible events of last week when a Danish policeman was killed in service. It has made a great impression on all of us when those put in the world to look after the rest of us suddenly have to pay the highest price, and on a tragic basis it must remind us all that we have to ensure that our police have the best possible conditions. It's going well in Denmark. We got a financial statement yesterday. Employment is on the way forward, unemployment is falling, house prices are rising throughout the country, and yesterday we also received figures showing that we have now had the cash assistance basket broken; there are fewer Danes on cash benefits. That is why we can now allow ourselves to conclude that we have left behind the crisis and now it is about ensuring that the recovery we are in is greater and lasting. It takes many things, even more things than I can cover in five minutes, but it certainly requires that we all get the labour reserves in Denmark into the labour market. That is also why the government will present before Christmas a proposal for a job prize targeted people who have been on the edge of the labour market so that they get an extraordinary right now and here-encouraging to make use of the opportunities that actually exist in the labour market. Today, the government has put forward a proposal on "Taxi for the future," which I would like to mention, because this is an example of a bridge, we have to build the future between some fantastic opportunities for the future and then, you might say, the risk that things will happen in a non-proper way. It is a package that ensures that, with technology neutrality, we can put consumers and security first and benefit from some of the opportunities offered by the new digitalised world. This is an independent, important exercise, but it is also important because it has to be looked up against the fact that on Monday the government has invited the first meeting as a prelude to the composition of the new Council of Disruptions, the partnership for the future labour market, which we will really launch in 2017 and which will precisely develop some concrete proposals on how Denmark can become a country that goes forward into the future, taking the new opportunities fully into account, but in a way that means that we have at the same time arranged conditions on our labour market. Today's debate is the first small concrete example of how some of the challenges of the time can be tackled, so we find this balance where we seize the opportunities and, on the other hand, we are seriously and seriously concerned about some of the concerns that are quite rightly felt by our people when digitalisation is pushing for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213130716	Thank you, Prime Minister. I am equally honoured and delighted to welcome the rapporteurs, who now have the opportunity to ask questions. The questioner and Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. I quit for two minutes. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. The first rapporteur we welcome is Mrs Mette Frederiksen for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213130743	Thank you. When we had the opening debate no. 2 last week, I asked the Prime Minister a really fairly simple and concrete question. It was incredibly difficult to get an answer. That's why we're taking another trip. What I asked about last Monday, and which I would like to ask about now, is how much more time the Danes have to work. When I ask that question, there are two reasons for it. It is my clear impression that for many Danish employees, when they are in their fifties, they begin to plan their withdrawal. You start planning your senior life, you want to be sure you want to know when you can leave the labour market. That is why I think it is important when we make political agreements that are of great importance when people can withdraw, that we stand by them, that we safeguard them, that there is credibility about the political agreements. We know that the government wants the Danes to work longer. We also know that this will create uncertainty for a great many people. That is why I think it is fair that the Prime Minister should today respond to how long more Danish employees will have to work. I am also asking about this because many Danish employees can no longer work. Also more than the 100 people for whom the government wants to create a new service and scheme. It is people who are worn out because they have done their job. They have risen every day or night, done an important job for our society. Typically, they have had some of the hardest physical jobs. They have entered the labour market first, and they have worked for most years. Today, we can go to a retirement pension when we are 65. Already in 12 years it has changed to the 67th year. This means that a 55-year-old today knows that you have to work until you are 67 and not 65. That's all there is to it. The former government, the Left Government, wanted to ask everyone, including the worn-out ones, to work 1⁄2 more years. Now I ask the Prime Minister: what is the new government's plan? How long will Danish employees have to work more and when?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213131005	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213131007	Thank you. I understand the question, and I also understood it the first time. I also explained why I did not give a precise answer. I'm not gonna do that today either. May I not first start somewhere else by saying that I fully agree with Mrs Mette Frederiksen that changes in pension conditions must be given a warning in good time so that we know what to do. It is also true that, in this light, it has already been agreed that the retirement age will grow in the years to come and, indeed, in years to come it will reach the 67 years when it was not so terribly many years ago. In other words, the retirement age was reduced, and there have been many years here where it has been welcomed. Now it reaches the 67 it was. It is true that in the spring the government will come up with a proposal to adjust further. What I can say today is that it will happen at a long, long omen. I share the view that we should be able to adapt to it in good time. It is known to everyone what was the view of the previous government, namely that those who are going to retire in 2025 were asked to stay 1⁄2 years longer. This should apply to a generation in the labour market, after which we would fall back to the pattern that has actually been agreed, including with Mrs Mette Frederiksen's own party. The government is currently looking at what our proposal for the political season after New Year should look like. That is where we shall put ourselves in concrete terms on this issue, and that will not happen before.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213131146	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213131148	Yes, but wouldn't it be fair to get a number on the table right now? For those workers who are now in their 50s have begun to plan how to withdraw from the labour market, and I know more workers who are already in doubt whether they can last until they are 67 years old, and whether they can stand the distance, i.e. whether they can continue to drive a bus, whether they can continue to clean up, whether they can continue to care for the work of home care, the slaughterhouse or the other industries, and who are at the risk of wear and tear, but the Prime Minister will not put a concrete figure on it. What we know is that in the new government basis the need has been written up and that the Danes have to work significantly longer, but if the Prime Minister does not want to be concrete, can we get an upper limit for it? In other words, is it one year longer for Danish employees to work? Is it two years, is it three years, is it four more years? So if the Prime Minister doesn't want to put a figure on now what I think is surprising and also wrong so the Danes know what they have to do well with, can't we get the upper limit? Is it a year? Is it two years, is it three years, is it four years?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213131256	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213131257	Well, I have very precisely refused to answer the question, and then, of course, you can ask again, even with the range being asked here. Of course, it is not four years, and I know when I reply in this way that the Social Democratic propaganda machine will start and that it will then be said that the Prime Minister did not deny that the retirement age is being raised to, I do not know how much it is, let the imagination be given free rein, you have to do what you want to do. Of course, we could not dream of doing something that is not well thought-out and sensible and sound, and we are playing with it in the new year, and we are doing so, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Unemployment is now so low that it has not been lower in the last 40 years, when 2 years are excluded • 2006 and 2007 • where Danish economy was overheated. We therefore find ourselves in a situation where, if we are to ensure that the recovery continues, so that we get growth and make Denmark richer, we have to look at how to create a greater job supply. And one of the ways to do that is to ask people who can to work longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213131411	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213131412	But it's just a wrong way. And I really have no need for us to unleash our imagination in the Folketing, and that is why I ask the Minister. It is, of course, that the 55-year-olds who are in Denmark today, who can feel that they will have to work significantly longer, can be sure whether it is 1 year or 2 years. We must understand that it is not 4 years, but is it 1 year, or is it 2 years or 3 years? Now that we are talking about people who have withdrawn from the labour market, I would like to ask a question. I think that one of the things that many appreciate is having a summer house and that they may even be able to live there when they become pensioners. I think that one of the best things about Denmark is that for many years at least we have had a development in the cottage area and in the colonial garden area, which has ensured that people with general income have also been able to buy a house where they have been able to retire and enjoy their holidays and weekends. I understand that the government may want to challenge the agreement we have had for many years that foreigners should not buy holiday homes in Denmark, and I really ask most of all of interest: why on earth should it be lost? Is it not important that the Danes can also be allowed to buy a summer house in the future? Why gamble with the Danish summer house rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213131529	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213131530	Yes, it is important, and that is also why the government has no desire to settle a dispute with the Danish summer house rule, which we negotiated as a prerequisite for our accession to the European Community back in 1972. That is also one of the reasons why many municipalities, which are large summer cottage municipalities, have a desire to maintain that rule. It does not shake the fact that there are also municipalities around Denmark, where things look a little different, and where you actually express a desire for the possibility of and it is mayors of changing political observatories that foreigners could also buy to get the growth going, to put houses in place, to ensure that the bottom that may have fallen out of the summer house market in the specific municipalities could be restored. And that is why the government has said that we would like to examine whether it is possible to maintain the Danish summer house rule in general as a rule, combined with that in specific selected areas where there is a strong local demand for it, in other words experimentally allowing foreigners to buy. It remains to be clarified whether the European Union and the Commission will be involved in drawing up such an experimental model, which goes hand in hand with the Danish summer house rule, because if you do not want to do so, the project cannot be done. In other words, it is very important for us that the summer house rule as such should remain unanticipated.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213131704	Thank you. Then I would like to welcome the next questioner and that is Mrs Pernille Skip from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213131711	Thank you. Today, 375,544 signatures are handed over to the Minister of Education. It is signatures from people who are angry about a bill that excludes a great many young people from being given the opportunity to further train themselves if they already have a bachelor's degree in advance. That is what is called the ban on dual education, and there are so many reasons to be angry about that. Firstly, because it is so central to our society that when we work hard to pay a relatively high tax in relation to other countries, we do so, among other things, because future generations must also have the opportunity to have an education, good prospects for the future, become skilled, create their own lives as they dream. Education is a value in itself, and it creates freedom when there is access to education. Anyone who chooses to change and find his right shelf should not only be for the few who have the money for it. Secondly, the well-educated workforce is also an important thing for all of us and for the economy. It can be very expensive if this is done. I have received unusually many emails from different people in all kinds of age groups and all kinds of and impossible situations, which are quite frustrating. And I would like the Prime Minister to listen when it's not me, but for example. Sara Persson, intensive nurse speaking. She writes to me: I have long had a dream of further training at a higher level, studying medicine and becoming a doctor and becoming the first doctor in the family with professional education. Denmark lacks doctors in the province; my dream job. I'm a good nurse. She goes on to say that her interest in medical science is something she really has. She's experienced that with age, but unfortunately she didn't know when she was 20. It's not just her, it's also all sorts of others, so my question to the Prime Minister is: if you've chosen wrong and you can see that you're not good at this, or you're not happy about it, you should just swallow that choice and live in that work for the rest of your life?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213131931	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213131933	Thank you. It is true that we have set an educational ceiling in a broad political agreement across the middle, and I am pleased about that. It also includes the Social Democratic Party, and we did so when we made the supplementary agreement to ensure the unemployment benefit reform, which is one of the reasons why things are actually going well in Denmark. Otherwise, we would already have been in trouble with a closed output gap, but it is a siding. That is, of course, a matter of priority and balance. Again yesterday we received figures showing that we will need a lot of skilled labour in the coming years, and that is why I think it is reasonable that if you have taken an education paid by all of us at bachelor level, it is the one you have taken. If you then want to train sideways, that is to say at the same level, it can happen if you self-pay it, and as a starting point there will also be an opportunity for you to build on your education. This means that the teacher can read at the university or that the teacher can take a master's degree in universities. Where there are then a few exceptions, there are in some of the higher education programmes which are very expensive, among other things. The medical school where we have dimensioned it for some other reasons. But as a starting point, this means that we collectively take responsibility for people getting an education at bachelor level. And they can train further, but they can't train sideways. And if they want it anyway, they can do it for their own money.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213132109	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213132110	I think it is good that the Prime Minister would like to point out that social democracy is also included in the agreement. I think we should also point out that the Danish People's Party also has a part of the responsibility for it and then we have got most of it, unless the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives would also like some credit, because then I should like to share it. I think it is rather strange to point out that one can pay oneself out of it. The Prime Minister knows very well that I hope then that the thing about paying for education is fortunately not something you can do very many places in Danish society, and hopefully he is also aware that not everyone has the money for it, on the contrary. It is certainly not only nurses who want to be doctors who are excluded from it; it is also people who have an HA in professional law who want to be lawyers, or academics who discover that they would like to be social workers, or educators who would be better at being primary school teachers than educators. I do not think it is appropriate to beg and ask for an education in Denmark in order to be allowed to contribute something that one is still happy about. Therefore, I would like the Prime Minister to answer the question: should you just stay in the work that you may not be good at and not happy about for the rest of your life?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213132230	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213132231	The way we're asked shows that we're looking at this society differently, and that's pretty good enough, so there are some differences. I think it is quite unique that we have free and free and equal access to the educational system in Denmark. But it is also important that things are linked. We have a responsibility to ensure that the funding of this welfare society is fundamentally linked. There we say from the point of view of fairness that social assistance has been provided for free and, by the way, even with the support of the social SU system, to take an education, and that is what has been obtained. If you want to continue to train, that is to say, with the foundations you have, then it can happen; if you want to train side by side, that is to say at the same level of competence, then you cannot get it paid by the government. Then we want to create flexible opportunities for us to do so in return for our own payment. There may also be situations where you may be in the labour market and where, in conjunction with your employer, you get the employer to co-finance it. This represents a fair balanced assessment of how we use each other's tax dollars, and I can stand up for that, along with a fairly broad majority in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213132359	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213132400	I think most people are aware that the Prime Minister and I do not see the same thing about exactly the priority exercise you are in and that I would probably have liked the Prime Minister instead of this to shut down some of his future plans to give tax cuts to the top of society. So, yes, it's a priority exercise. It's not just us in the Enhedslisten who are angry. Well, there are 73,000 people who have signed. The Employers' Association of the Financial Sector says that it is moving in the wrong direction in relation to an objective to increase the flexibility and adaptability of the labour force, which is crucial to the competitiveness of Danish industry. Training organisations and trade unions are worried that more people will drop out early because they are simply afraid of what will happen if they finish this bachelor they're doing, because then they can't choose again. So there are a lot of people who have decided on this. The Prime Minister says that the welfare society must be linked. Couldn't the Prime Minister just finally agree with me that the thing about getting an education, the right education can be a purpose and a quality in itself, and precisely that there is access to education, the freedom to create your own future, choose whether you have a lot of money in your luggage or not, is part of the welfare society that the Prime Minister claims he wants to have to hang together?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213132528	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213132529	It is not something I say; it is something I do. Along with a number of other responsible parties in this Parliament, we have built up this welfare society, while the party that Mrs Pernille Skip represents has sat on the edge and criticised it. And if you go back historically to the party from which you come and look at the movements, you could say that some people have taken responsibility for building this society. And yes, it is a society with free and equal access to education. There is also room for choice if you have started a teacher training course and in the middle of the programme find out that this is not what you have to do; you have to do something else, and then you can choose again. What we are doing now is saying: if you have had a full and full education paid by all of us, while at the same time you have been supported by all of us, that is the offer we are making. Then you can build on top. It can, for example, be done. be the seminary-educated teacher or professional school-educated teacher who would like to take a master's degree in didactics, then it can be done to build on. There is also the possibility that the educator, who prefers to be a teacher, can take a credit course. But, in other words, to create completely free access to one education and say: thank you for that, now I would like to take one more, in goose eyes, just like that. That is what we are putting an end to, in order to free the money there, among other things. This means that we are now able to ensure that unemployment benefits are reformed in the future. And that's how the money's supposed to fit. We have found a balanced solution which the government across the middle, with social democracy and also with the help of our own parliamentary basis, is on guard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213132706	Thank you very much. I welcome the next questioner, sir. Uffe Elbæk from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213132716	Then we change a little theme, but I would like to start by thanking you for the Christmas greeting that the Prime Minister gave me on Facebook. Thank you. I think everyone needs to be on Christmas vacation soon. What we must try to talk about in the first two questions I have is culture and art. It means a lot to the alternative that we can use and think that area much more directly into the way we think politics and that we use it in disciplines - art and culture in relation to foreign policy, art and culture in relation to social policy, art and culture in relation to education etc. And there are two reasons for this. On the one hand, we think that art and culture contain our collective memory; on the other hand, we think that we need art and culture in order to be challenged on our world picture and our ability to imagine something other than what is happening right now, and especially at a time when there is so much debate and discussion. So I was really looking forward to reading what is actually about art and culture in the government programme, and I was very excited to see what the level of ambition is, and not least what concrete cuts there are that say that this government actually wants to work for. In addition to wanting to privatise TV 2, which is a separate drama that has its own discussion, there are two things that the government wants. One is the tax exemption for Olympic athletes, and the other is to ensure the conditions of horse racing. Of course, what I'm curious about is what art and culture mean to this government, and what level of ambition we have to lay down, and how we ensure that we have a rich artistic and cultural life in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213132922	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213132928	The level of ambition can of course be made up in different ways, and unfortunately it is often and often up to, you might say, the coin in this Chamber, that is how much you want to spend. And in this context, I'm sure it will disappoint Mr. Uffe Elbæk, that we are not putting up for any big grant boost. But I also believe that we can have a level of ambition that is not only measured out in money, but which is about diversity and diversity. And that is also one of the points on which we have expressed opinions and views in the government base. In fact, I share the whole point of the question in the way that Mr. Uffe Elbæk did it on, that is, how art can enrich us and challenge us. Therefore, one must also be careful to put it in political boxes and define very precisely what kind of art and culture one would like to have. Because that should not be a political ordering item. In other words, it must be something that grows in cultural environments that are free of political intervention. So we have to set up some frameworks, and I think that is what we are doing. And I am delighted to note some of the accession interviews that have also taken place with the new Minister for Culture, who is emphasising these very things with diversity, popularity and these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213133053	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213133054	I would first like to say at my own expense that I really look forward to working with the new Minister for Culture and indeed have great hopes for it. But I still have to challenge the Prime Minister as to how much art and culture means. This applies not only to this government, but also to the previous government in which I myself was a minister. I have never seen the Prime Minister of that time or the current Prime Minister in the opening speech mention art and culture at all, while everyone stresses how important it is. Just as a good advice, I would urge that art and culture become part of the opening speech next year and that at least it is mentioned that the whole area exists and that it is important for our own self-understanding and the way of understanding ourselves as a country, and for identity, community and all that. When the Prime Minister says that this should not be about crowns and ears, it is nevertheless the case that these fixed savings, which are being put down over the cultural institutions, hit them over and over again. Year after year, they're gonna save these 2% that we've decided now. But an orchestra can't play a symphony 2%. faster or cute 2%, and so is a play and a ballet. It simply hits in a way that makes it incredibly difficult for these art institutions to produce at the highest level, if that is what we want. Otherwise, we must say that we do not want this to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213133235	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213133236	I therefore very much agree that it is not possible to streamline art in such a way as to ask the Royal Ballet just to dance faster or whatever you could imagine. I am very much in agreement with that. But in that sector too, there is now a great deal of extravagance, administration, building maintenance, building stock and everything else that makes it reasonable, as in all sorts of other sectors, to have a certain amount of budgetary pressure at all times. That is also what makes it possible for political negotiations to have free crowns that can then be prioritised. In the financial agreement that has just been made without me knowing all the details about it, you have among other things. set aside funds for the Old City in Aarhus, which is also part of our cultural heritage, Gammel Estrup and other. After all, the opportunity to give priority to something and to give some targeted appropriations exists only if resources are released over time. Thank you for the advice on next year's opening speech. I will keep that in mind at that time, and it gives me a unique chance, when we have to talk to each other, to start the new parliamentary year in a way in which Mr. Uffe Elbæk afterwards will say that I opened by giving an admission. So I'll keep that in mind at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213133404	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213133406	I already have both hands above my shoulders, so I look forward to it. The last question is the habit of faith from the members of the Alternative, and I am not taking what got the highest score because I have asked that earlier. So I'll take number two, the one that got second most points. I hope that's okay. He says: Do you have any areas where you think there are particularly good opportunities for the new government and the alternative to work constructively together?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213133446	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213133447	Thank you. I am a little worried about the kind of top management that is now beginning to sneak into the alternative after such a short time. I thought we had a completely new approach to it, and then you simply put your hand on the weight of direct member democracy. Well, that's what you gotta do yourself. I can see several fields, and I look forward very much to the fact that when we enter the new year I share Mr. Uffe Elbæk's perception that it will be nice to have some Christmas holiday for everyone should look at how we promote an even better entrepreneurial environment in Denmark. What we have put forward today about taxi for the future is also an acknowledgement of the fact that the labour market is changing: the fact that you are either self-employed or you are an employee who comes new intermediates, and we need to create a framework in which entrepreneurial people can try out their ideas and which can allow them to grow large. All over the field, which is about caring for the entrepreneurial gene in the Danish population, both hope and believe there will be many places where the government can cooperate with the alternative. I look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213133558	Thank you. And I'd like to welcome the next questioner, sir. Morten Østergaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213133608	Thank you. Whoever you are, you must be pleased that employment and the Danish economy are doing well. I agree with the Prime Minister that it is of course in favour of starting to look forward and thinking about how to keep a recovery alive. I think it might have dressed up the Prime Minister if, when he was in an election campaign and was not yet prime minister, he had not dismissed the same ideas as pure masochism, but we should not continue to do so. Now let's look ahead. But there are two things that are true. One is whether there is enough labour, while the other is whether people have the right qualifications. I would therefore like to return to the matter, the seriousness of which is not only clear from the many signatures, but also by the fact that even Enhedslisten draws on the Finance Employers' Association to underline its points; then we know that we are dealing with a serious matter. And we do, because it is true that Christmas holidays can be nice, but not for all the young people who have been told with one stroke that the dreams they had, the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party have now set a ceiling. Personally, I think that the concept of education ceiling in itself is in some way very hostile to the future and certainly does not echo any of what the Prime Minister used to say, namely that we should add to and not subtract etc. In any case, the logic is completely absent when the money is to be used to finance unemployment costs and the signal to young people is that if they want to pursue their dreams, then they will only have to go for five years when they do not use the education they have before they can get around this ceiling. I have received a number of inquiries, but one of those who has impressed me and whom I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether we can jointly give advice is Anne, who has taken a bachelor's degree in Spanish and now wants to be an engineer. I would just like to ask: does the Prime Minister think it is a problem that young female humanists who have gained an interest in the engineering profession are looking too much in this direction and that the solution is that for five years you should not use your bachelor's degree in order to avoid the government's ceiling, that is, if you want to pursue your dreams?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213133819	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213133820	Well, frankly, I think this is the wrong way to go into the debate. Because I do not think it is in any way optimal that you should go to primary school for 9-10 years, 3 years in an upper secondary education and then spend 3 or 4 years, or how long you now spend taking a bachelor's degree, to find that it was not the right thing to do and that you are now taking another education. I do not think that is appropriate, and I have to say it plainly. I don't think it is. Therefore, I do not think that the conclusion of this should be to stop doing what we have done widely across the middle, namely to create a framework for how many types of education can be taken. The conclusion has to be different. It must be that we support young people in getting the right choice for the first time. It has to be that, in the spring of the year, we are beginning to look, together with the social partners, at how we then create a continuing training system on the labour market, which means that when you are employed on the labour market, perhaps with a given set of formal qualifications, you can move on and develop your qualifications so that you can maintain employment over a very long working life. That's my approach to it. And I can hear both from the question that comes here and from the Enhedslisten that this is an approach I do not share with the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten. I am so pleased that I share it with a broad majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213133940	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213133942	It is because I am trying to take the Prime Minister seriously, and what we miss is logic and coherence. The Prime Minister's first words to us today are that we are challenged by the fact that we are going somewhere where we are going to lack enough people with the right qualifications. However, in order to finance an agreement that does not increase employment but does the opposite, a ceiling is set for young people who want to pursue their dreams of having an education put together in a way that could help create new opportunities. What is wrong with having an engineer who has a background that means that you can also contribute to exports, that is because you know Spanish? Is it for the sake of business that we want to prevent this? At any rate, the logic is completely absent when you say to young people: In order to finance the costs of the unemployed, we ask you to go unemployed for 5 years before you can escape our education ceiling. I just want to ask the PM two questions. Firstly, in an earlier reply, the Prime Minister said that if you went to the side, you had to pay for yourself. This is not in the draft law put forward by the government, so I would like to hear what it is all about. Secondly, normal decency offers that there is a notice of two years for this kind of change in the education system, that is, when we change things. What is it that makes these young people not have the same opportunity to adapt to the policy with which we quite rightly disagree?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213134103	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213134104	I have to say that, in relation to the more technical limits within which re-elections, opt-outs and opt-outs can be made, I have to refer to the relevant Resort Minister, because that is not a clear knowledge I have. I am aware that since this has been put forward, there have been ongoing discussions between the parties because no one wants to be sensitive to justified criticism. And with regard to the precise status of that, I have to say frankly that I do not remember everything in my head to refer to the relevant minister. This is the country as a political agreement with the reasons I have expressed. And then, of course, you can go over that cross and say that exactly the training ceiling was created to finance exactly the solution of the daily allowance. Yes, it did, but that's why you still have to stand away for it. And then at least those costs are financed. We are faced with a challenge in the years to come, and I foresee that we will have to do something more to ensure more education. However, it cannot be the case that we start by addressing where people are already trained and then focus on giving them an extra education. It has to start somewhere else in the labour market. This must start with those who are now on the labour market and who have some qualifications but who, if they are not built on, will lose their jobs in five or ten years' time. That's where I'd like to start using the money. So I think you go backwards into this debate. We know that we are going to lack skilled labour. If you have received a bachelor's degree, you have been helped well by society. And then I think, and now I repeat myself, that it is fair enough that this is the offer we make.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213134248	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213134250	Yes, there was no answer to the young people who usually receive 2 years' notice. There has been no opportunity for this here. Across all other education regulations, young people have not been given two years to adjust to it. I would like to change the subject because I do not think we will agree on this and therefore ask another question at the end. And this concerns the discussion that has arisen in the wake of a number of companies having chosen to move their advertising from a particular media that receives media support in Denmark, namely the Korte Avis. There has been such a discussion about freedom of expression, which I think is a little strange, and I would therefore like to ask the minister of the press whether it is not also part of freedom of expression or private property to decide for themselves where to advertise. I have noticed that the Left sometimes announces in Berlingske and perhaps not so much in the daily newspaper The Worker, and that is surely an expression of some target group orientation. But my question to the minister of the press is really: should it not be the case that if you receive tax-financed media support in Denmark, you also submit to the Press Office instead of doing, as the editor-in-chief of the Korte Avis says, that you have not, because you would drown in cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213134355	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213134357	We would very much like at some point to discuss the framework for media support with the parties of the Folketing, but we must do so in a fundamental context. There's a lot of things you could take up. When we bring tax dollars into play via media support, should we perhaps have a little more transparency in wage formation in the newspapers? There could be a lot of things you could be interested in. We indirectly support newspapers that open up the advertising of things that are extremely risky of hiding crime: trafficking and other things. It could be a really, really exciting discussion, but I'm not dressed up to take it here today. In relation to the main issue, I would say: yes, it is an integral part of ownership that you decide how you want to spend your own money. It goes without saying, and I don't think I should go much deeper into it. I can say that the only place where I myself contribute to making decisions about advertising is when I act as party chairman. And there we are guided by only one thing: where are the target groups? And that is why it is not the case that when we put ads in a newspaper, it is the expression that we raise that newspaper and say, as it were, that it is a fine newspaper. Well, there would be a number of the Danish newspapers we announce in which we would not advertise. And if the Danish business community has a different approach to it in relation to the Korte Avis, it is on their account. I just have to say quite quietly that, as far as some of the statements that have been made recently are concerned, I would like to see the ceiling slightly higher in the public debate. Let me put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213134544	Thank you. And the next question is Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213134553	In his introduction, the Prime Minister said that Denmark is doing well, that the crisis is behind us, and that now we must get everyone on board. I kind of agree with that. That is also what the economic statement says. The real challenge we face now is that we will experience bottlenecks in the Danish labour market because there is not enough skilled or qualified labour. This brings me to my question, because what we will see in terms of getting well-qualified labour is savings in the production schools. These are some of the most vulnerable in our society, and they are the ones who need to get that boost so that they can later get a skilled craftsman's training, carpenter or other. The savings we are experiencing in the education system in general are 2-percent savings above a comb and savings on the SU. Last but not least, as both the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left raised, there is the issue of dual education, namely that if, for example, you are going to be able to work in another Member State. is a trained teacher and later will choose to take a craftsman's training, it is actually not possible. Or if, as my Vice-President of the SF, after having first chosen to train in political science at the risk of becoming a DJF, you find out, when you have taken the bachelor, that Denmark has much more need for you to become a nurse, you will not be able to do so either. All these proposals, the overall bag, seem to me to be an obstacle to what we really need in Denmark, namely the best educated generation of young people. We know that there will not be enough unskilled jobs by 2020, and that is why I would like to hear what the government intends to do in order to actually get well qualified labour and skilled enough by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213134737	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213134738	To go straight to the question, I would say that we will continue to do what we have already done. We have among other things. In this context, it is important to stress the importance of training for young people and the need for them to be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the new technologies and the opportunities offered by the new technologies. I think that has meant something to young people's educational choices. This has meant something for mothers, as all studies show, are those who have the greatest influence on the educational choices of young people. In the trialogue negotiations, we have agreed that there should be a possibility for people to obtain a skilled training if they do not have one in advance on unemployment benefits. We will start the third phase of the trialogue negotiations in the spring and will look at the whole VEU perspective, that is to say, the adult and continuing education area, where there is a need with the many resources in play that may need to be increased to create more flexibility, to make it more labour market-oriented, to be more dynamic in taking the temperature of what it really is for a training need that the labour market has. That's the kind of thing we have to do. We currently have a committee of experts who will be making recommendations to us in the spring on how to build on the primary school, because we know that there are young people who, so to speak, do not get the right jump from the end of primary school into upper secondary education and who will end up in a situation where they make many re-elections or opt-outs and where they risk being lost on the floor. There we have asked a group of experts, and I have quite high expectations of this, to make some suggestions on how to make that bridge stronger, so that more young people get over it and get over it right the first time. Because it is also about using society's resources in the best possible way, and it can never be an independent goal that people should have more different educations. In other words, the basic right objective must be for people to get the right education for them, and preferably for the first time. So some of what we are looking at is, among other things, whether to strengthen the role of the municipalities, give the municipalities greater responsibility, a greater clear responsibility, to help young people on their way. So it is a range of things, even more than what I have mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213135001	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213135002	Then I think it is a pity that the government is making savings in our education system at the same time, which makes it more difficult for people, for example. is in the production schools. Young people, whom the Prime Minister pays tribute to in the Løkkefond, are some of those who are at risk and actually have to take advantage of a production school to move forward in life, in order to reach the goal that we can agree on, namely to become skilled. I have to say that I totally disagree with the government in relation to the savings made in the production schools. You simply hit the vulnerable. I think it is a bit ambiguous for the government to say that all this is wanted, that you want to have well-qualified labour, that you want to have skilled young people, but at the same time you want to cut back on the SU, cut down on training choices and cut down on the production schools. It is like talking with two tongues, and I really think it would be very healthy with a little honesty in the debate. Then the Prime Minister tells us to look at the area of adult and further education. SF is ready for that. I actually think it's crucial. That was one of the things we secured more money for while we were in government. And the Prime Minister says that more money is needed in this respect. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if the government then places money on the Finance Act to be able to deliver money in the trialogue negotiations to ensure that more people can be trained or trained.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213135116	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213135118	I very much agree that we need to be honest, and that is why you can of course stand up and create the image that all the good you want to do is do on top of what you do in advance. I don't know where the money's coming from. I mean, I'm really, really preoccupied with young people getting off to a good start, and it can go hand in hand with the fact that I also want to take care of all of our money. And one of the ways it can go hand in hand is to make sure we do it right the first time. Well, if you do it right the first time, it's cheaper for all of us, and it's better for the young one too. That is why it makes really, really good sense, for example. to look at whether we can create more clear responsibilities throughout the gap between the municipality and the primary school and the further youth education life, and create greater certainty that you will be moved in the right place for the first time. It will be good for the young, it will be good for the economy. The same applies, moreover, to ensuring that there is also an economy for increasing competence in our society. Yes, it is true that the government has an ambition to adjust in the SU. We spend as much on SU as we spend on research, and what we say is that if we adjust it a little, we can free money. And, of course, we have written in the government base that every penny that comes directly from such a change must be invested in a boost of competence. So, yeah, it can go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213135245	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213135246	I think that when you answer where the money should come from, you should also think about what we should live on in the future. We know in Denmark that we are not going to live on the North Sea oil or, for that matter, minerals in the underground. We're gonna make a living from what kids get in their heads today. Of course, it would be best if they could settle for one education, but there are just people who choose wrong. The fewer of them, the better. The challenge is that the government, together with the Social Democratic Party, has unfortunately made it extremely difficult for those who later in life find out that they have to read something else. But I would like to go back to this with the Prime Minister saying that further training later in life would like to spend more money on. Does the Prime Minister intend to put forward a pool in the trialogue negotiations so that more money can actually be set aside for some of the people who are unskilled today who will probably not have a job in the 2020s and therefore need further training?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213135339	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213135340	I do not want to pre-empt the trialogue negotiations, and that is one of the reasons for this. together with the fact that we have agreed with the social partners that the third stage of the trialogue negotiations has been pushed over to the other side of the collective bargaining process. And that is why it would in every way be inappropriate for me to stand as the third party and express myself very specifically about it. We have an agreement with the social partners that once they have handled the collective bargaining process where, in principle, there may also be themes related to this, we do not know that, and that is among other things. That's why we've pushed it to afterwards and we'll meet again. And, of course, by then we will be raising our expectations. I can say at the very general level that this society will need to carry out some competences which are not just aimed at people, like getting an education for a start and then getting by with it, but which is aimed at maintaining and building on some competences that you have, and which provided for you to be able to start the job market, to ensure that you can stay on it as well. That is why we have an ambition to set aside a billion euros of money, that is to say, a billion euros of money for the increase in competence. So we don't have that freedom just to say that money we're pulling in a machine next door. And that is why we have pointed out that money, among other things. to be provided by, hopefully, together with the parties here at Christiansborg in 2017, we can adjust to the world's most generous SU system so that we can have money released for such a competence fund. And I would be very pleased if the SF would contribute positively to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213135510	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the last rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213135517	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank colleagues for their flexibility. My question is also about the Short Avis, which the Prime Minister touched on a little earlier, and it is by no means in order to challenge the right of companies to decide for themselves where they will place their ad crowns. It goes without saying that in a free society you have to do it yourself. It is more to have a discussion with the Prime Minister about the thought-provoking nature of what is happening, compared to what is known in modern Danish as a shitstorm, which suddenly plunges into a tiny medium which, in this great media landscape we have, is trying to form a small critical voice in relation to one of the biggest challenges we have in the Western world, which is about political Islam or Islamisation, or whatever to call it, which can challenge the values we stand for in various ways. We're not talking about novices behind this. We are talking about a former adviser to the Social Democratic Prime Minister Ralf Pittelkow, and we are talking about a former Minister from both the Social Democratic and the Left Karen Jespersen, who has thus chosen to spend their time telling critically about a development in society, critical of something that they see as a great danger to our social design. And suddenly, in just a few days, you are met by such a, in modern Danish, shitstorm, where at least 29 advertisers in just a few days move their ads away from the newspaper. What I would like to hear the Prime Minister reflect a little on today is, if not a worrying development, if in reality, without reflecting on things, simply because you are afraid of what a sudden reaction can come from the social media on which it is taking place, you are doing something that can actually destroy the possibility of having a diverse discussion about the social development that we see.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213135733	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213135735	Thank you. That is the way beyond politics in the sense that we are talking about self-employed people and self-employed individuals and companies who react as they are supposed to, and I should at least be careful to get involved in that. I can say in general terms that I think it is important that we have a diverse media landscape and I inform myself broadly about it. I read the Short Avis; I also read some longer newspapers; I read widely; I also turn to the Worker sometimes. I think it is a strength of the Danish media landscape that it is characterized by a variation. And that is what we support with some media support. I am familiar with The Short Avis's media support, and it is an expression that those who have given it media support think that that newspaper also belongs in the Danish media landscape. And, of course, I hope that there will be respect for that in the market. I guess that's as far as I can go. I always think it is good that you just pull in air and count to ten when you act on such fast movements that are set in motion. And there have been many different examples of how companies may have suddenly been exposed with a very small foot failure. This is the trend of the times because we have an exchange of information that is so fast. Where it makes particular demands, it is, of course, with us who bear the chains of responsibility, and also with people who have public service responsibilities. I shall not hide the fact that I have also observed how Denmark's Radio has played a part in this. I think that is more worrying, to put it as I think it is, than that a single private company has its own advertising budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213140000	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213140002	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. So it can be said that what makes this matter special is that the justification given, for example. of Nordea, who started this whole process, is that the newspaper has an often very negative focus on Islam and immigration. After all, I share the Prime Minister's comment earlier... I think it was in connection with Mr. Morten Østergaard's question is that when you announce, you usually announce without a political agenda that you announce to reach your audience. And then you often advertise through some agencies that put ads across where it makes sense, but here Nordea goes directly from announcing politically neutral to having a political agenda with its announcement, because you obviously do not want to announce a place where you have a negative focus on Islam and immigration. The journalistic profile of the Short Avis does not match Nordea, as we are told. At least in such contexts, I hope that the Prime Minister calls on the companies to give some thought, because it can be said that if the companies start to say where they want to advertise and where they do not want to advertise, then I think that there are several places where Nordea is going to consider whether they should move in ads.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213140117	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213140118	Well, I think it's a comment. I feel no need to go deeper into it. I have said something in general about what kind of media landscape I would like to see. This is also how our media support is built up. The Short Avis receives me well-known media support, and that is an expression of not having taken a position on the content, because if we put it as a standard, that we politically only gave support if we were, as it were, behind the content, then every man and woman in this Chamber would surely have her own suggestion of how the aid should be distributed. I would just like to say that the approach to it, in other words, as a legislator, that we are cultivating pluralism and the diverse media landscape, where opinions are to be broken and expressed, I am on guard. I also hope, of course, that the rest of society will take this on board and that it will also be part of the way in which the advertising budget is organized around companies. But to stand and decide how certain named companies find themselves in the wake of this very turbulent Facebook-driven phenomenon, which I shall not repeat the questioner's words about, I will not do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213140235	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213140237	Thank you. I can understand the balance that the Prime Minister has to make here. The Prime Minister mentioned earlier in his reply that it might be a particular problem or a particular challenge that Denmark's Radio as a public service station has a hostel who also goes into this discussion. This took place on Friday, when the host had found that there were still some who announced in the net newspaper, i.e. The Korte Avis, after which he said: "Now it has been pointed out, and then it may be that a few more ads smoke. Otherwise you can always go in and check itkreditevis.dk and then contact the respective companies on their Facebook page. I assume as a given thing that the Prime Minister also, in the follow-up to what he said earlier, clearly distance himself from the fact that Denmark's Radio is thus part of this debate. One thing is, of course, that private companies, which we look at in exactly the same way, decide for themselves where they want to advertise; another is that it is too bad, I think, that they are not just thinking about, but are now beginning to enter into such a political debate about the developments we see in our society and are worried about by others. But here we have to do, as the Prime Minister mentioned earlier, with a public service station for which everyone has to pay a media licence, and there, of course, it is no good for them to be included in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213140403	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213140406	Thank you. I am not the one who is editing the Danish Radio's broadcasts, nor do I have any plans to do so. I have also taken one long higher education and have no plans to retrain me so that I would be able to build up the qualifications to do so. It is Denmark's Radio's responsibility. I would rather not go too deep into it, but just say so quite quietly: it is clear that there is a responsibility to be a public service station. There is a responsibility with the fact that, in terms of legislation and through this special licensing system, we have asked Danes to also Danes who never ever listen to the Danish Radio to fund it. It gives a very special position in Danish society and a very special access to in fact also influences the formation of opinions. It must be my very quiet advice that the Danish Radio management thus reflects on it and takes it down, because it is an exceptional position of strength, in other words in relation to all sorts of other media you could think of. But it's all over the top. And from here it is up to Denmark's Radio to edit their own broadcasts and employ the staff they want and to measure up to the journalism they are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213140538	I thank the questioner and thank the Prime Minister for an exciting Question Time. We shall postpone the sitting for five minutes and then proceed to item 2 on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213140925	We'll resume the meeting. If no one objects to the promotion of these requests, I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141021	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 22 by Nick Hækkerup (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Henrik Dahl (LA), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Nase Khader (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 107 (S, SF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. We note that there is one more vote in favour, so it will be: 108 votes in favour (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0 abstentions. Proposal for adoption No V-22 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 21 by Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF), Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141153	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141237	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. We shall conclude the vote now. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141316	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That does not seem to be the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141341	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 17 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141417	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? No one wants to speak, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141434	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour, 91 (S, SF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 15 (EL, ALT and 1 RV (by mistake)) abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141507	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? No one wishes to speak, and that is why we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141530	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141604	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141617	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 100 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 6 (ALT), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141657	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141726	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 75 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 30 (DF and EL), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141803	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is no such thing, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141839	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Looks like it. Here you go, sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213141859	Thank you for that, and I shall be brief, now that there are so many assembled. The reason I am going up here is because we actually said no to the legal security package II for a number of reasons. One of them was that we did not experience that there was a willingness to invest in SKAT in a way that we thought was legitimate when you went out and made a package called Legal Security Package II. We thought that symptoms were being treated here without really tackling the real evil, i.e. the lack of investment in SKAT. Now the government has gone in and made an ambitious investment in SKAT. It is not ambitious enough in the eyes of the Alternative, but it must be said that it is a very good step on the road. That is why we are much more positive about the implementation of the legal security package II in this legislative proposal. What has been most controversial about from our point of view and why we pushed it was this compensation, i.e. the compensation of 100 per cent. also vis-à-vis companies and foundations. In fact, we have always said this in the alternative that we were in favour. There must be legal certainty for all parties in Danish society. Some will then be able to say that this may be a proposal for someone to search the limits of tax legislation and that some of the big companies may then go in and speculate on testing it and doing so without having to pay for it. But you can turn it around, too. There have also been examples that SKAT has been a little aggressive in their testing of conditions in the companies. So we choose to show confidence in the companies and foundations that can make use of it here, and at the same time we will also say that that trust is therefore necessary in order for us to have a different look at SKAT in future, where we do not see SKAT as a counterpart, but as a co-player. After all, it is we here in the Folketing who define what the SKAT should do. So this handshake to companies and foundations is so much to make us have everyone looking at SKAT with confidence again.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213142045	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There isn't. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213142108	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen from Tjóðveldi, Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213142145	On 19 April 2016, the Finance Ministers of the Faroe Islands and Denmark signed an agreement whereby the Danish State transfers a nominal amount of money to the Home Rule Government of the Faroe Islands of 641.8 million. kr. each of the years 2017, 2018 and 2019. However, there is a valve in the agreement which allows the State's subsidies to be reduced if the Latting makes a decision and communicates it to the Danish Government. There are many political variations and storytellings about the grant scheme, depending on how the political observance is linked here and in the Faroe Islands. The cohesion parties see it as a material paternalist gift, a perpetuum mobile, which will forever ensure Danish political domination over the islands, and a psychic political state that resembles Stockholm syndrome. Patriots and secessionists have the diametrically opposed view of the subsidy scheme. One can already see the seeds of preparations for the Home Rule Act, where the Danish side, in all probability, recognises the political loss in the referendum of 14 September 1946. That is why there is a change of course, in which economic colonization in the form of reimbursements and so on is encouraged. instead. Now we're in the story of the snowball. The longer it rolls, the bigger it gets. The refunds are growing, and in 1987 part of them will be converted into transfers in a subsidy scheme, in daily terms called the Danish block grant. In 1993, the total amount is linked into one block. In the 1980s and up to 1992, the grant scheme corresponded to 20 per cent. In addition, 10 per cent of GDP was borrowed during the same period. of GDP p.a. Outside. During the period it became a total loan burden of 8-9 billion. kr. With this luxurious train you drove beyond the cliff in 1992, and the Faroe Islands came into one of the world's biggest economic disasters, where 7,000 people left the country, which would amount to 800,000 inhabitants in Denmark, because of distress, poverty and economic destruction. This is now history, but the block subsidy is still a reality that must be addressed, as the authorities continue to stick to this economic instrument, which, however, has a very different meaning in the Faroese economy than in the past. Compared with the situation just over 30 years ago and up to the major crisis that started in 1992, it has been estimated that GDP will land at 17.9 billion in 2016. kr. That is to say, the grant of 641.8 million. kr. now represents 3.58%. of GDP in relation to the then 20 per cent. Compared to the Faroese Finance Act, which has not yet been finally adopted, but which ranges around 6 billion. kr., the block grant represents approximately 10.7%. of the budget for 2017. The parameters are some very different than they used to be. The main reason is that the local government which ruled from 1998 until 2004 and which once had a plan to establish the Faroese State could, after all, agree to reduce the subsidy scheme by 366 million. kr. And lock it in. In one chop, the support was shaved from almost 1 billion. kr. a year at 615.5 million. kr., and the price index adjustment was suspended. Since then, regulation has been used for some time, but economic growth has overtaken the smaller growth in the block grant several times. This means that what in the 1980s looked like a Dutch sick blossom does not have the same chance of entering the economy today, but it must be pointed out, for the sake of fairness, that it was also a great deal of strange political decisions that led to the great crisis in 1992, because external gifts such as artificial capital, where there is no own production, have a bearing on the production of bubbles. There is no doubt that a misguided external financial input will immediately bring a higher absorption to the benefit of all those who benefit from it, but it will also lead to distortions throughout the economy, which will result in some very problematic long-term consequences. That's what happened in the 1980s. That is why the responsibility rests heavily on the shoulders of those who today assume political responsibility in order to prevent a similar economic volcanic eruption from having any chance at all of repeating itself. In the transfer of money from the Treasury to the Treasury there is a metamorphosis. The money shifts from real Danish capital to a kind of poetic wealth, which Karl Marx mentions in his third volume of Capital, where he philosophes about the bubble economy and is the first at all to point out that social damage occurs when there is no value production behind profit. There are only worthless papers circulating among people. They are worthless in the sense that they have no basis in any creation of values. Compared with the fictitious values that swam around the system in the global crisis some years ago, block support has a value, but it gives it a dangerous character. If it is ample in relation to the economy... the example is just around the corner... it can put so much pressure inside the system that wages are higher than productivity, and it can be expected that most private businessspires are strangled automatically. In this way, the state will be the only one in the economic cycle capable of launching anything with the subsidy as a financial base. You get a state-made economy, a special form of automatic socialism that is a consequence of the economic system and not a political system that some have chosen for or from. The size of the Greenlandic block support may have brought with it such disruptions. During the infamous 10-12 years in the 1980s and up to the 1992 crisis, the block subsidy in the Faroe Islands had the same effect. 10 billion kr. in grants from the Danish state and a loan with an amount of the same amount in this period recovered with Danish credit rating gave so much overweight and ice in the system that it collapsed. The home government politicians were inside and detailed every ship project through various public subsidy mechanisms, and in the artificial wealth of money the rationalisation of the public sector has not been to the right. The proposal for a second reading today is an agreement between two parties, the Government of the Faroe Islands and the Danish Government. The next 3 years will receive the Faroese treasury 641.8 million. kr. per year in grants. If the 1998-2004 self-government coalition had not intervened in the case, the Danish block support for the Faroe Islands would now probably be around 11⁄2 billion. kr. annual. The question is, what would the lost billion kroner be used for? Granted to a larger public sector, it would also create major disruptions in the system once again, as no value creation is the reason for the money in Faroese society. Yesterday, a majority in the Financial Committee of the Latting presented a report showing a budgeted surplus in the draft budget of 215 million. kr. In this way, the balances are starting to find their place, and the prospects for greater value creation in the Faroese industry are looking reasonable, especially if we get better market access for example. the European market. That is why it has come to the question of the subsidy system that consideration should be given to a linear reduction in the 641.8 million. kr. over 5, 7 or 10 years. It has little to do with politics or whether you want cohesion or secession. It is more a matter of getting an economic cycle that lives its own life with its own buoyancy. As the estimates now show that the Faroese gross domestic product per year. Capital is larger than the Danish gross domestic product per head of population. capita, the story of subsidies begins to get a twist that smells like immoral, so those who drive in luxury class are subsidised by those who drive in second grade. In the White Paper, which the Icelandic author Einar Már Guðmundsson wrote about the Icelandic crisis, the man writes, among other things. has received the Nordic Literature Prize: I was just on a train, not in Russia, but Sweden, on my way from Stockholm to a city called Eskilstuna. That's where I was supposed to read from my work. From there the trip was to go to an area called Sørmland. On the train I read Sky in pants by Vladimir Majakovsky. The book still has its old name, the lady on the train had died long ago, including Majakovsky. I was immersed in reading, but when I looked up, a gypsy woman sat before me. She had black black hair, a southern look and lots of bags. Along with her was a 10-year-old boy, also with coal black hair and large brown eyes. I feel no fear in the woman and even less in the boy. We just nod and smile, ready to talk about the day and the way, but language difficulties get in the way. I look out the window and watch people outside when I hear that the boy has started to torment his mother. I don't know what he's asking for or what his mother's answer is, except that the boy's plague is increasing and the mother's resistance is decreasing. When I look up, she probably says "Yes, yes, yes, yes," and the boy's lonely begging has probably meant "Do the mother I'm so thirsty." At least the woman buttones up the shirt, puts her hand under it and sticks out one breast. The 10-year-old boy is healthy in the turn and starts sucking on his chest. He's sucking it with a lot of determination. Having had enough, he pushes it back in, leans back in the seat and burps. Then he pulls out a cigarette, turns it on and smokes it in complacency. This is the most soberest description one can give in a sort of word visualization to the proposal that is being discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143229	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov to Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen, so he has to stay on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143237	Doesn't this debate really belong in Lagtinget instead of in the Folketing? So, from the Danish side, it is not to bother the Faroe Islands that we send a block grant to the Faroe Islands, and my personal assessment will be that if you agreed on the Faroe Islands that you do not want that money, it would probably be met by the Danish Parliament. That is why I think it is a little strange to try to blame Parliament for sending money and conducting the debate down here. In fact, it is not very loyal to the Faroe Islands if Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen in this way goes against the desire from Lagtinget to receive this money. So I wonder why the debate should be held here instead of in Thorshavn.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143320	There is a consensus in the political coalition, currently in the National Government, to come together on the agreement that has been made with the Danish Government. And as I said in the speech, I fully support it. But I now represent another party called Tjóðveldi, which is part of the coalition, but which has a completely different opinion about these relationships. In fact, we believe that block support should be reduced much more quickly, because the situation is that the Faroese economy is equal to the Danish economy, and it makes no sense to be supported in luxury class by some who are in the same class or below it. At any rate, the figures for gross domestic product at the moment show that we are higher than Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143414	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143416	As long as we can agree that it is after Faroese wish that there is this block grant, and it should not sound as if the Faroese side is actually blaming Denmark and the Danish Parliament for a block grant. 'Cause that's kind of the impression you're left with after hearing this fire speech from Mr. Kim. Tórbjørn Jacobsen. Personally, I do not think that is entirely reasonable. So it is not to bother the Faroe Islands that we send that money up there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143445	Following a debate between the Faroese Finance Minister and the Danish Finance Minister, an agreement has been reached which we support. But that cannot be the reason why an MEP should not be allowed to express his heart's opinion on things like this. But I have pointed out that I support the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143507	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143509	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I just have a clarification question. Does the rapporteur think that the bill should be returned to committee between the second and third readings, or would the rapporteur actually just say that he is recommending that the bill be sent directly to the third reading?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143526	I was not present when it was discussed earlier, so I took the floor today and expressed my opinion on these matters. But I think we should follow the business that has been set up. So I do not see that we should do anything other than what is in the cards.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143554	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143557	Thank you. Unlike Conservatives, I would like to thank you for your statement. I think it is always good to be able to vote on a clear basis and, above all, to know that there are people who say: OK, this money is not really necessary, but we say thank you very much. It is just as it is when the government wants to give tax relief to the richest in the country and there are honest people who stand out and say: No, thank you, we think it is too much we would much, much rather see that you care for those who have the hardest in the country, because we are doing fine. And I can only appreciate that, because it helps to give a much more nuanced debate than the one that is almost based on the fact that all people are greedy and that all people will just grope for themselves. So thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143640	This thing with the grant scheme has little to do with cohesion or secession. I believe that it has more to do with the fact that every economic cycle has to take care of itself somehow. So, every individual, who is fairly normal, has the duty to fend for himself and not live by the grace of others. So we are in the situation in the Faroe Islands today that we should not live on the mercy of others.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143712	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143717	I think most Danes will be very concerned about receiving political praise from Mr. Christian Juhl. I do not know whether the rapporteur shares that concern. On the other hand, I have great respect for the rapporteur's view that the block subsidy is superfluous. And that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he intends to table an amendment to reduce the subsidy to DKK 0. If you follow in this Chamber today, you will soon understand that we can easily find other ways of spending considerable sums of money. So is it just an expression of opinion, or will there also be a political proposal out of what has been said from the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143752	Yes, if I were Faroese Minister of Finance, I would certainly do anything to reduce this block grant, so it got as far down as possible. But what is under discussion today is an agreement between two parties, that is, between two governments, if we can put it that way, and that is what we have to decide. And as I said earlier in the speech, I support the agreement, but I just do not agree that we cannot get out of this subsidy any faster, which has at least proved to be or could be a quite dangerous economic manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143833	No one else wishes to speak, and since that is not the case, the debate has ended. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143900	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143920	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213143931	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A will then be put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Social Services Act]. As a result of the law on adult responsibility for children placed in care]: requested vote on Amendment No. 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. The draft law referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Social Services Act]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 and 4, joined by the Committee? They are adopted. I suggest that Bill No. L 54 A goes directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. It has been proposed that Bill No. L 54 Β referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144031	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144040	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144100	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144111	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL, ALT and SF) and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT, SF), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, 3 and 4, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 5, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144204	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144223	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF), that the bill is divided into two and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 83 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. Two and three, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144313	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144340	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144354	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstained 0. The amendment has been rejected. I therefore consider Amendment No. 2 by the same minority as rejected. It has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144444	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144451	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, adopted by the Committee, on Amendments Nos 1 and 2. Amendment No 3, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and CF) or by Amendment No 3, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and CF) or by a majority (S, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, F, They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144517	Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144535	Thank you. L 38 consists of two parts. The first part deals with pharmacists' watchkeeping services. It is relatively uncontroversial, as it is an improvement in the existing agreement, and it is the implementation of an agreement concluded between the Government and the Danish Association of Pharmacies. The second part, on the other hand, provides for further liberalisation of the law on medicinal products, which opens up the possibility of over-the-counter medicinal products being self-selected in the retail trade. It is a relatively controversial proposal. I think it's a bad idea for the government to pool bill like that. The two laws have nothing to do with each other. The first part will be relatively unproblematic to gather the support of, I believe, all parties. Nevertheless, if we do not adopt the Enhedslisten's proposal to divide the bill into two, it will end up with a number of parties voting against, simply because the other part of the proposal is inedible. I think it is quite unreasonable to pool legislative proposals in this way when the proposals have nothing to do with each other. I would just like to say a few words about the part of the legislative proposal that opens up the possibility of certain over-the-counter medicines being sold in the retail shop area. I find it deeply risky that a majority defy the warnings from the Consumer Council, the Danish Nursing Council, the Elders Case, the Danish Society for Patient Safety, the Medical Association, the Danish Pharmacy Association, the Pharmaconomy Association, Pharmadanmark and the Industry Association for Generic Medicinal Products. They all point out that this opens up a risk of both over-medication and mismedication when there is no access to medical advice on the use of medicines. It is absolutely essential that advice and guidance on the use of medicinal products should not be left to advertising, but should still be provided by health professionals. Therefore, it is also quite thought-provoking that the only two associations that have recommended the bill in their hearing reply are the Pharmaceutical Industry Association and the Danish Occupation. I would therefore urge you to vote in favour of Enhedslisten's proposal to split the bill into two, and I would also like to call on both the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party to vote against the overall bill to allow self-choosing over-the-counter medicines in the retail trade.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144751	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144758	In the alternative, we believe that this is the wrong way to go when the government wants to put over-the-counter medicines on the shelves of supermarkets. We Danes take far too many pills, and that development must be slowed down, it should not be reinforced. About half of the calls given to the Gift Line relate, for example, to poisoning caused by medicine. Like the Enhedslisten, we want this bill to be divided into two, and we also do not understand why we do not want to divide it into two, since it is about two very different things. One part of the bill is intended to set up a new guard service for pharmacists and to ensure better geographical coverage in the guard service. We are, of course, very positive about that part of the draft law. However, we believe that the Danes should take less medicine and no more, and that is why we are tabling an amendment to the effect that medicines should only be placed on the shelves of the retail area of pharmacies, where there are trained staff who can advise consumers, and not on the shelves of the supermarket, where there is no information or guidance whatsoever. That is why we are calling for the vote to be taken in favour of our amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144921	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213144929	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF), stating that the bill is divided into two. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 82 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 to the undivided bill of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (EL, RV and SF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 80 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145046	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145059	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 1 by a minority (DF), elected by a majority (the other committee with the exception of S and SF), on Amendment No 1. 9 outside the report by Mrs Liselott Blixt (DF) or on Amendment No 9. 2-7 of a minority (DF), elected by a majority (the other committee with the exception of S and SF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145132	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145145	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145211	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145232	The debate is open. Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145251	The alternative, with B23, has proposed that the Minister of Education make the code of ethics against the sharing of infringing material a mandatory working tool in the country's upper secondary education and primary education. Let me start by saying that the government cannot support the proposal. Vengeance porn, sex bullying weren't words that existed at least not my acquaintance when I was young and I was in high school. At that time a camera was rather something with a film roll in which you were going to the photo dealer and have developed, and it could be days before you could pick up the pictures. Besides, it was often your father who picked up the pictures from the party, because it was he who had to pay, but it did not mean that there was no interest and curiosity about sex and the other sex, and there certainly was also violations, they just had a different character. But it was easier to have your secrets and intimate experiences in peace. Today it's different. Today everyone has a phone with a camera and direct connection to the Internet, facebook and the whole world, and it offers new opportunities and challenges. Cases of sexual bullying among young people have filled a lot in the media lately, and I believe that the fear of being exhibited and violated fills many young people today. After all, we live in a time when it is so easy to take pictures and with a single press send them on, and even if it is just a simple press, it can have major consequences. It is therefore particularly important that we focus on sexual boundaries and on what is okay and what is definitely not okay, because sex bullying is a behavior and a culture we must combat. Young people need to know that it can actually be illegal and punishable to share insulting material from young people under 18 years of age, but, above all, young people, together with their peers, parents, teachers and school leaders, must create a culture in which it is not okay to share insulting images and videos that exhibit and humiliate their peers. We in the government have a strong focus on strengthening this proper behavior and preventing the sharing of offending material among children and young people. As part of the high school reform, the focus is on students learning to have a critical look at digital media and acting responsibly and reflecting on how they use social media. In the field of vocational training, we are working to create attractive educational environments such as: ensure a school culture that counteracts offending behaviour. And then my ministry, together with a number of actors across youth education, has drawn up an ethical code against the sharing of offending material. That is what this resolution is specifically about. With the code of ethics, the parties in the field of youth education have taken a joint responsibility to renounce the culture that has arisen in schools with the sharing of images. The code has been received very positively, and a number of schools have already used it to put digital violations on the agenda locally, and that is exactly what I think is important, i.e. that young people focus on the problem and together create a culture where such behaviour is not okay. My ministry will therefore print a new edition of the code of ethics so that all schools can get it sent if they want to work on the subject. The code of ethics is a good tool for pupils, teachers, managers and parents to prevent and deal with cases of digital violations, but rather than make a particular educational material compulsory, I believe that we should give schools the freedom to address the problems of sharing of insulting material locally. I do not want to tie institutions on their hands and dictate how to solve these problems. I do not want to impose legislation on any use of a particular tool. I know that each of them in the individual schools is best at assessing what works, and I am also confident that they will address the problems and work to combat them with the young people. I would like to thank the alternative for putting on the agenda, with this resolution, the code of ethics and the challenges of sharing of material offensive. This is a very serious and important issue that affects and affects a lot of young people, but as I have explained, I do not agree with turning the code of ethics into compulsory teaching material. I believe that local challenges are best addressed through local solutions that also ensure better local ownership among those who need to change in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145716	There is one brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145721	Thank you. Thank you very much to the Minister for the speech, and thank you for the positive words about at least the purpose of this motion for a resolution that we have tabled. After all, we share this kind of basically in the desire of the Alternative Liberal Alliance for freedom to schools, to our educational institutions. Yet we are extremely concerned because of this problem that we see, with the sharing of, among other things. Naked pictures. Now the minister says that she believes that local challenges need to be solved locally, but this is not a local challenge. This is a fundamental national challenge. After all, we cannot divide up into school districts, whether or not there is a problem with the sharing of nude images, because that goes beyond those borders. You can share a picture from one school with someone who is at another school, for example. So there is, of course, a national challenge to the sharing of nude images, and that is why we have tabled this resolution to make it compulsory. What is the position of the Minister, that is to say, he cannot as such see it as a local challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145820	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145821	Well, it is quite true that this is a national challenge, but that is why we still believe that it should be anchored locally. And we think that this is better done by having the opportunity to take on that tool and also to make adjustments locally, because that is how you take responsibility if you have the opportunity to influence things. Management responsibilities, parental responsibility, and so I would also say the judicial work is also important because there are sometimes acts that are actually illegal. So the responsibility that lies locally means that we think it works best if we also allow room to adapt the effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145901	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145902	Thank you. I do not, in fact, disagree with the fact that it needs to be changed locally and adapted locally. It could well be so, even if it is compulsory to use the material in the way one then chooses to use it on the individual school. That is why we have also mentioned in this motion for a resolution that we do not want to decide how it should be done, but that it should be used, that it should be included in the teaching in some way. So that is what has been intended. And there is also a form of local self-government in how to use it. So it was simply to clarify the debate that is also being held in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213145938	Even though we really like this material and think it's necessary, we still think it's the best way of anchoring a particular material in this way, because we don't think it's the best way of anchoring it locally. Because this area is changing all the time, and that also means that the way you approach it, the effort you make, will also change. So if you lock things up too much along the way, then you can actually freeze something, and that is not what we want at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213150013	We thank the Minister, there are no more brief comments. And we are going to start with the rapporteur's series. First, it's sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213150032	Thank you. Signe and I are streaming TV shows at home when the kids are laid, and for the time being it is the Norwegian public service success • Shame, an excellent picture of youth life at a major building school in Oslo. The other day, the protagonist in season 2, Noora, thought that the guy she loved was sleeping with another girl. Her teenage heart was crushed, so she got drunk with people she didn't know. And she woke up naked in a bed with a stranger guy, confused and comforting and baffled with blackout. It's nothing new. That kind of stupidity is as old as man himself. But a few days later, when Noora receives a condescending mms from the guy with a naked picture of himself, it's new. I'm personally glad there weren't smartphones when I was a teenager myself. We do not see and feel Noora's pain because she has made a mistake, because we have done so ourselves, but because she is then humiliated and threatened. When we on the part of the Social Democrats have been concerned about limiting these unsympathetic and demeaning acts, we realise that digital dissemination of offending material is already a massive problem that we must address. We would therefore like to thank the alternative for keeping the focus on the subject. Therefore, when we cannot support the proposal, it is not to neglect the problem. This is primarily because we do not want to manage the Danish primary and secondary schools by imposing on them a certain teaching material, as proposed by this resolution. We believe that the Ministry of Education has produced a very good ethical code, which we will encourage schools to use or be inspired by, but we want to preserve the freedom of method in individual schools. In addition, I believe that we must also be careful that schools are always required to teach every social problem. We have previously discussed whether it should be mandatory for schools to teach private finance so that young people do not take SMS loans; in the harmful effects of hashish; in the consequences of engaging in gang crime; in the advantage of standing in a union; in the sick body ideals produced by the fashion industry; in Bertel Haarder's Danish canon and in much, much else. Now I think the politicians should try to give the schools some rest. There isn't a single municipal council, principal or schoolteacher in this country who doesn't feel for Noora. They're gonna help her. Our task now is to provide a framework and an economy, but should we not allow the professionals themselves to find out what working tools they think are best for the pupils who attend schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213150300	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213150314	Thank you. And thank you to the alternative for raising the issue so that we can have a debate on some sort of bullying that is just not acceptable. In the Danish People's Party, we fully agree that this is an area that we must take very seriously and that we must therefore, of course, demand from our educational institutions that they take it seriously. This is precisely why I have participated in the preparation of recommendations and ideas for the action against bullying that the former Minister of Education, Ellen Trane Nørby, was behind this summer, and where a wide range of guides and tools have been prepared to support local efforts. This is an effort which is only just getting under way and where there is still a lot of work to be done locally in many places. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party have also supported the amendment of the Education Environment Act with demands for anti-bullying strategy and demands that the anti-bullying strategy also contains a strategy against digital bullying. And to stress that we believe that action must be taken and that bullying in all its forms must be combated, we in the Danish People's Party have also supported a complaints body to which complaints can be made if, for example, there is a lack of transparency. a school and a municipal council do not take their task seriously and work with anti-bullying strategies etc. It is a review body which I hope will have very little to do, but it is a clear signal that this should be taken seriously. In the Danish People's Party, we believe it is important to make clear demands that we should do something, that we should have action plans and strategies, but we do not believe that we in this House should demand the use of specific tools. We believe it is important that, in order to achieve the good results, you have the freedom to find that path and the tools that make sense in the local context. Having said that, I think that the vast majority of people can make quite a lot of sense of using the code of ethics that has been drafted, and I would like to recommend that everyone use it in their local work. We can also discuss whether it should be emphasized in some places that it is also in the context of the work against bullying that the sharing of insulting material should be included, even though in my head it gives itself the demands that are today. However, we cannot support the demand for specific tools, and so we cannot support this motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213150517	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief comments have been asked, so we move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213150528	Thank you. In connection with the discussion of B 23 on making the code of ethics compulsory in upper secondary education and in primary education, I can say that the Left will vote against this motion for a resolution. First of all, however, I would like to thank the alternative for having tabled this motion for a resolution, because it gives us an opportunity to continue to focus on this serious issue, but I simply do not see it as necessary to force it through here. But I also actually recognise that when the alternative has tabled this motion for a resolution, yes, it is at the same time a form of recognition that the former Minister of Education, Ellen Trane Nørby, has drawn up an ethical code with a large number of actors in this area. The broad collaboration of actors included teachers, managers and students, who have the problems close to life so that they can be said to have to deal with these challenges in everyday life. I think it is positive that the alternative finds the code of ethics both exemplary, good and applicable to educational institutions. That was also the intention of the work that the Minister of Education set in motion a few months ago. Unfortunately, we have all heard the stories about how, unfortunately, more and more young people, against their will, have shared nude images, videos or insulting material on the Internet. It is quite simply totally unacceptable that bullying in this way should be given this insulting character, and that is simply something we need to take very seriously and do something about. It is a culture, one might say, which has evolved and which we have a task in getting rid of. On the left side, as I said, we cannot support the alternative proposal because we believe that it should be up to the individual institutions to organise education. It must therefore also be up to each institution to select the teaching material which they want to use to achieve these things. Educational institutions should not be forced or bound by mandatory codes of ethics. It must therefore be up to the individual educational institution itself to assess what it is best in the local situation to take in as tools to deal with those situations. Once again, I would like to thank the alternative for raising the debate with this resolution, but, as I said, we will vote against it. I have promised to welcome the Conservatives and to say that they are also voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213150823	There is one brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213150827	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Thank you for the good words of the Left rapporteur. What I am hearing is actually a recognition of the need to address the problem, but a criticism that what lies in this resolution is using a particular tool as a mandatory tool in schools. However, the Left would be prepared to make the actual teaching of ethical behaviour in relation to the sharing of insulting material compulsory in school and in high school, if, for example, there were to be: was a variation of material one could use, as is the case in most subjects in primary school today? There is, of course, a selection of material that can be used. So is this a question of saying no to the resolution, because it is only a specific material, or is it the idea that teaching digital behaviour in relation to the sharing of infringing material should be compulsory at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213150931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213150932	I really think that both with the reform of the primary school, but also with the reform of the secondary school, we have chosen to focus on the problem in a very, very fine way. The previous government also presented a paper on how to focus on the whole issue of bullying, and that is one of the things we will be working on, including in the new year, namely how we will ensure that we will preferably eradicate bullying in different ways, but among other things. also get to grips with this digital issue, which has come up in recent years, and where unfortunately there are more and more examples of bullying each other over the net.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213151019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213151020	After all, this is a relatively new problem which we have seen roll over over the last five years, and that is clearly a consequence of the fact that we have the social media that fills so much among young people. There's been a piece of material that's really good. If this problem does not get any smaller, should we say over the next few years, will the Left be prepared to look again at the idea that we should introduce some form of compulsory education in relation to this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213151051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213151052	It is the case that we in the Left are very fond of freedom, including the freedom to choose methods in different ways, and of giving individual educational institutions freedom in relation to what tools they think are relevant to take up the toolbox and apply in individual situations. So I'm not gonna stand here on the platform and promise anything about what we're gonna do in a few years' time. I can say that some of what I would like to stand by is that the Left is usually those who want to listen to new ideas about how to do things. I would also like to say that developments in this area are part of what we all probably have here in the Folketing a desire to follow closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213151133	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213151134	Thank you. We in the Social Democratic Party also very much agree with both the Alternative and the Left that it is important to equip digital education and to combat bullying in the youth environments in general, but we would also like to supplement this with a change in the penal code, so that this type of sharing of insulting material with simple violence would be treated equally, so that the penalty would be lifted. Is this something that has been decided on in the Left as to whether you would like to participate in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213151210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213151211	I can say that what we have taken a position on, and which we certainly support, is that we have drawn up a bullying plan, in which we are taking the great step that I think it is, and now we have a review body. I have to say that I very much hope that the step we are taking, among other things. Having taken along with the Children's Council, will make these things largely stopped. I hope that this review body, which is now being set up, will help to focus further on how it is formed and what the guidelines and rules are for how we should treat each other, and that is actually, whether it is in primary school or for that matter in the youth institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213151300	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213151313	In Enhedslisten we agree with the proposers that there is a need for increased efforts to prevent the sharing of offending material among young people in youth education and in primary education. We believe that the initiative taken by the former Minister of Education to draw up an ethical code is a very positive one, and we think it is in fact a good idea, as presented here, to extend the efforts to include the oldest classes in primary school, so that it is all young people in these programmes who are familiar with and involved in a dialogue on the principles and in dialogue on how to navigate social media. In other words, we agree that the code of ethics is being made a compulsory working tool, but at the same time I think it is very sensible that there should be an open approach from the proposers to how the code can be made compulsory on education and training. In this respect, I would like to stress that we agree with a number of previous speakers that it is important for us that the educational institutions should have a relatively free framework for defining how to work specifically on the problem at individual educational institutions to adapt it to individual education and to adapt it to the age level of pupils, which is different from upper secondary education and into primary education. I also think it is very important that we get the emphasis on in the debate, in the design of this, how to make the optimal student involvement, because I am convinced that this should work and not just appear to be something external that is being pulled over the pupils' heads, dialogue with the pupils and, above all, dialogue between the pupils is extremely important. I think, having heard the previous speeches, that perhaps there is a false contradiction in making it compulsory to work on the ethical guidelines, that, in some of the speeches, it is a problem that says that we are interfering with the freedom of method of education. I have not read the proposal like that. I have read it in such a way that we make it compulsory for all the training courses mentioned to be concerned with the code of ethics, but that, in this way, a great deal of freedom is being created for the educational institutions to manage it. If I am right in the interpretation of it I can see that there is nodding in the Chamber from the authors of the motion for a resolution I think it is absolutely a very good proposal. I think that the combination of making it binding on the educational institutions, but at the same time showing a great deal of openness to the freedom of method, how it is approached, is absolutely right. That is why I would like to conclude by saying that the Enhedslisten can support the proposal and I just managed to exchange words with one of the Socialist People's Party colleagues, and I should like to say from them that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213151638	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213151652	It does not, of course, take much parliamentary experience to figure out that the Liberal Alliance supports the Minister for Education in the position that has been presented. I should like to take this opportunity to emphasise, and it is very important that it is not the case that we disagree with the description of the problem that is being presented. Nor is it the case that we disagree with the debate on the seriousness of the matter. We probably attach the same importance to this, but it is a discussion on educational policy instruments in which we attach great importance to schools being able to function as institutions which have a management that can act and adapt the pupils who are exactly at the school in the local community and the activities that are taking place at the school. So school policy is important, and there is probably the key word here with institutions and with well-functioning institutions. That's why I'd like to sign up for Mr. Knox. Mattia Tesfaye, who speaks of the widely used practice of proposing timeless subjects, that is to say, where a lot of problems in society need to be mitigated by hours that are not really a real subject, but which are taken on the basis of ordinary activities. It is not a criticism that hits this specific proposal, but it is a general injustice in the world of education policy which I hope we can have a further discussion of. But although there is no doubt that the problem is a serious problem, there is therefore an educational policy dimension which means that we do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213151844	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213151909	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge to the alternative that they have taken the initiative, so we are dealing with this resolution here up to Christmas. We in the Radical Left fully agree on how important it is for Ellen Trane Nørby to have the former Minister of Education, now the Minister of Health, launched the then government's code of ethics on the sharing of insulting material. In my view, it is an excellent idea to work to make it a mandatory subject which has already been included in education, and in fact it is also possible to include it in the specific mandatory theme of health and sex education and family knowledge. However, I also think that there is another part of the primary school law which calls for the proposal to be taken seriously. We have worked very intensively together against bullying and have tried to do something that is noticeable and that makes it possible, in time and preferably quickly, to see that bullying is something of the past, so that we no longer have to experience it at school, and in this context it is, of course, that the former Minister of Education makes that code together with other good forces. We have a purpose formulation in primary school, and I would like to quote from section 1 (1). 3. There are three parts, as it says, in the purpose, and the third paragraph states: the primary school must prepare pupils for participation, co-responsibility, rights and duties in a society of freedom and popular rule. The school's activities must therefore be characterised by freedom of spirit, equality and democracy. We have also just received a cannon from a former Minister of Culture, who talks about the values that we are known for in Denmark and which we would like to draw forward and be happy about, and here is one of them gender equality. What is happening with the violations that we have seen through the media over a period of time is precisely a violation of that equality, because it considers the girls in particular to be something that is an object and that you can just use as you like. That is why I think there are some attitudes, some moral or ethical, to use the expression, and educational policy issues that we need to address. I have to say that when we got the report on the work to abolish bullying and we took initiatives to make it compulsory, to use the expression here, to relate to bullying in schools, and otherwise we could complain about it, and there were sanctions, it was a very, very strong initiative by the Folketing against a particular event, a certain act in the primary school, that we acted in this way. So this is also part of bullying, which is why I think it is very logical that it should be taken up. I would like to say that, together with the alternative and other good forces in here, we would like to help to see whether we can somehow get a common understanding that this is something that should be done It is extremely important that in the high schools, which have been the source of some of the published events that really offend many and worry a great many, including parents, and in so far as politicians and other good citizens are working on it, we should therefore like to make a commitment that we will work on this. We may not be able to make it compulsory at the moment, but we will not let it go. We'd like to shake hands on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213152257	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved and the next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213152310	The SF's rapporteur on this cannot be here, but as it is something that I myself am very concerned about, I would very much like to read out our speech. Young people's sexual life has changed with the Internet and social media, and the social meeting and social life among young people today is just as important on the Internet as it is in the real meeting between them. This also means that the relationship between young people has changed. Digital sexism is spreading and we see more examples of young people being violated on the Internet. The network is easily accessible, and it can be difficult both for young people, but also for adults. We as politicians also sometimes see the consequences of what is written on the Internet and on social media. In the SF, we are very concerned about combating the digital violations and sexism, and we believe that teaching and counselling is one of the most important ways. That is why we also think it is a good idea to think the code of ethics into a more firm and integrated part of primary school education, for example. IT and the media or in sex education and in secondary education. It is essential that it is not just an additional task for schools, but that it should be considered as an integral part of the already existing education. It is absolutely crucial, as the alternative resolution also mentions, that dialogue and efforts should start early, so that we equip young people to be sensible on social media and on the Internet in general. In the SF we also have some ideas for a number of initiatives in this area and have among other things. put in place a targeted education in digital contraception with a focus on young-to-youth counselling. Young people's own experiences and perspectives are often better at starting their reflections than the raised point fingers from adults. We therefore support the motion for a resolution and will also look at the possibilities, in the forthcoming implementation of the secondary school conciliation, for a more compulsory thinking of the code of ethics in education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213152516	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now giving the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213152530	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs and the Minister for the speeches from up here and, above all, thank you very much for the good words that this motion for a resolution has given us on the way. After all, there is no doubt that there is no lack of goodwill, and everyone can also see that sharing of infringing material online is a huge problem in our society. I would like to make a few comments on the debate that has taken place in the Chamber, because I think there are some things that are probably not misunderstandings, but there are at least some nuances that we may rightly be aware of. One is the freedom of the institutions, schools and colleges in relation to choosing material for themselves. As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur rightly said, if you read through this resolution thoroughly, you can see that in the alternative we are actually very open in terms of how this is to be applied. We would like this code to be applied, but the way in which it is applied to each school or institution, we are laying the groundwork for discussion and free anchoring in schools and colleges. It is my custom to stand up here and advocate freedom for the educational institutions, and this is not something that I have suddenly turned over over the night on a plate, but here, as the rapporteur for the Radicals also mentioned, there is talk of a subject which we need to ensure that we have a mandatory discussion of and have a life hold on the schools of education, primary school and high schools. It was just about the freedom thing. Then there is the question of social responsibility. So, the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and Mr. Mattias Tesfaye raised this point about how much we have to transfer responsibility to our educational institutions in relation to the challenges we face in our society, how much the institutions have to contribute to the promise. It will always be worthy of a closer discussion, depending on what challenges we have and what times we are in, and here it will be my clear claim that this problem is a serious and profound social problem for a whole generation of young people. One in four Danes between the ages of 18 and 39 has sent naked pictures themselves, and I must hurry to say that they should then be allowed to do so; 8%. have experienced that the photos have been shared or passed on against their will 8 per cent. of an adolescence has experienced it. That's all. Too many. It has so many consequences in terms of how these people feel afterwards. This is a major social problem, and part of our school tradition is that the school must be an institution, an organisation, an element that bears some of the social challenges we have to the pupils, presents them to them and makes them relate to the problems that exist in our society. This is one of them, and it's new, which is why we have to say that we have to deal with it. I read an excellent article in Kristeligt Dagblad from April 1, 2016 • Social media have overtaken the ethics of young people. There you talk, among other things. with Mikkel Bogh, director of the Statens Museum of Art, and he says: "The point is that social media like Facebook is both a new public space and a new intimate sphere. And that's where we lack experience and ethics. Not a strict moral code that identifies specific prohibitions and injunctions, as it is today on Facebook, where a painting of Eckersberg is removed entirely machine-by-machine, but general principles of behavior. There is a huge ethical deficit on social media. That is why we need to take it up in the primary and secondary schools. It's because we need to teach our young people to deal with this challenge, so it's, in the alternative, a social responsibility, and therefore also a responsibility for the Danish Parliament, to relate to how we ensure that we get that discussion out to schools and high schools. There's a lot of things, sir. Mattias Tesfaye mentioned it here, where you can go in and say: then we have to rectify, in terms of how we can then prosecute the people who, for example, have been killed. illegally sharing nude images; or: How can we help young people report when something has happened that is offensive or illegal, and we must of course do so. It's just not done with it, for the shame that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye referred to, which is actually a very fine example of what it really is for some emotions it puts in the individual, when you experience it here, we cannot remove, by someone winning a trial, or that you might get a compensation. And that shame I think it is so important that we get the work done by the young people so that they relate to how it can actually feel both to commit something so insulting to another person, but also to get into a situation where it feels so shameful that you hardly even dare to say it to any other people. That's the talk we're gonna have at school and high school. That is why we believe that this is a social responsibility. Finally, I would like to point out again what I have also pointed out in relation to my question to the Minister. I do not disagree with the fact that we need to give a great deal of freedom to our educational institutions in order to solve local problems or solve problems locally, it is probably more right to say, but this does not stop at a school district. This is a challenge that is so fundamental all over Denmark and is rooted both in Brønderslev and in Holte, and therefore we need to have a consistent approach to what makes sure that we are absolutely sure that all schoolchildren throughout Denmark, all high schools and upper secondary schools have this talk with their students, because the students do not in any way stay within their school district when they interact. Nowadays everything is mainly going on over the Internet, and there you can sort of get to anyone, it should be, who also lives on the other side of the country. So this is not a local issue, and that is why we cannot solve it only by laying the freedom to solve it locally in schools. I want these to be my last words. I would say that I am very pleased with the positive statements, particularly from those who have said that we support the resolution or would like to work further on how we can get to some kind of guarantee that we will have this talk with our young people in schools and high schools. So with that, thank you for now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213153225	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213153228	Thank you. We too would very much like to continue the discussions on how to raise digital education and prevent bullying, which is what we are talking about here. We just disagree that this specific teaching material must be made compulsory because we fear to stand here in the Assembly in 14 days or 3 weeks and discuss whether there is any other material that must also be made compulsory to solve another same problem. We would like a tiny bit of arm's length on how schools organise the teaching in concrete terms. Now, in the comments to the proposal, the proposers write that the figures show that legislation on stricter penalties is not enough to solve the problem of involuntary sharing of infringing material. We are very much in agreement with that, but when it is not enough, it is also said that it can be sensible, in other words, to prevent the spread of infringing material. So I should like to know whether the alternative has considered whether it is possible to support the Social Democrats' proposal to equate this type of crime with simple violence and thus raise the penalty framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213153339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213153340	We have been considering this. As a starting point, we are not in favour of a higher penalty framework, and this is, in fact, primarily because we do not believe that raising the penalty framework will help. We'd like to look at other things compared to when the damage has happened. In other words, we have considered whether it should be categorized as a different form of violation than what is the case today. It is primarily a symbolic political act. In fact, even a few months ago, we have come up with a proposal to set up an agency similar to what they have in Norway and Sweden, which is called bad me, where the young people can very quickly contact it is a public agency, paid by public funds • if they experience that they have got some pictures shared against their will; then they get help to get them removed and they get help with the judicial process • in terms of what to do and how to stand the court • and they actually, if needed, are offered psychological assistance to process the traumas they may have received. So that's our play. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213153448	The questioner? No. Then we thank the proposer. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213153505	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213153525	The proposers have proposed that refugees' rights to housing should be abolished. First of all, let me say that I am concerned that we are supporting the municipalities in the task of accepting new refugees and ensuring better integration, but in my opinion we are not doing so by removing refugees' access to housing, actually quite the opposite. In Denmark today we have a well-functioning quota system that ensures, firstly, that new refugees are distributed evenly throughout the country and that those receiving asylum are integrated in the best possible way into Danish society. The municipality to which a refugee is visited has the responsibility for integration. The responsibility is that each municipality must designate a permanent residence for the person concerned. Until then, the municipality must designate a temporary residence. Secondly, the rules on housing placement mean that the individual refugee will, as a starting point, remain in the same municipality throughout the entire period of integration. The removal of the local authority's obligation to provide accommodation will in practice mean that we are abandoning the quota system that we have today, and it will be very difficult for a completely new refugee coming directly from the asylum centre itself to find a place of residence, and the proposed alternative of remaining in the asylum centres will therefore in practice become the main rule. Refugees will therefore remain in the asylum centres, and we do not want that on the part of the government, because it will mean that they will not be part of society and that they will not contribute to society. They will find it even harder to find a job and thus to contribute and will not thereby be able to take Denmark in. This will strengthen parallel societies and, in the long run, the government believes that this will not only be a major financial burden for us, but will also have a high level of value. That was precisely the discussion we had in connection with the proposal to introduce refugee villages. The government then believed that it was the wrong way to go, and we still think so. It would be an expensive and bad solution for the refugees to stay at the centres. At the same time, it is also important to recall that refugees do not have priority over permanent housing. When we talk about the municipal authorising right to general housing, housing is provided after a concrete assessment of the needs of the individual, whether it is a single mother, a exposed family or a refugee family. There is therefore no legislative preference for refugees here. This summer, we clarified the rules so that the municipalities' obligation to find a permanent accommodation only occurs when possible, and this means that the municipality is not obliged to find a permanent accommodation within a certain time limit and that the municipality is not obliged to put the task of finding accommodation for refugees over the need to find housing for other citizens. In addition, with the two-party agreement, we have taken a number of initiatives designed to make it easier for the municipalities to solve this housing task. We have among other things. more money was spent on the construction of new, low-cost housing, and the municipalities can then use it for the housing of refugees, but also for other citizens who need cheap housing. So, in the opinion of the government, this is the right way to go, i.e. the path that I have just outlined here, and the government is therefore also recommending that the proposal be rejected. In addition, on several points, we have relaxed the requirements for temporary housing, so that among other things. may stay several in the same room and may also be exempted from the noise requirement in relation to location. So I believe that we have moved in the direction which the authors of the motion here want, although we cannot, of course, implement the proposal that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154013	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154016	Thank you. It is, of course, a pity that the government continues to have the view that it is okay, so to speak, to give positive discrimination to refugees. I think there are a lot of people who find that hard to understand, but we have a hard time understanding it in the Danish People's Party. If we could then say that the positive discrimination that exists meant better integration, then perhaps there could be little meaning in madness. But you can't say that. After all, we have been running for the quota system that is today for a long time. After all, we have followed the system in which the municipalities have a duty to assign a residence, first a temporary and then a permanent residence, to refugees. We've been going after that system for many, many years. And that is not because that system has made integration work better. So does the Minister really believe that there is evidence to say that the current system promotes a good integration process?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154106	I think it is important to bear in mind that there have been a whole series of changes which the Danish People's Party has been very good at supporting, namely tightening up to get these people into the labour market. I believe that the crunch in this must be the integration benefit, i.e. the halving of cash aid. It is the 225-hour rule which, in reality, is the world's best argument for women to enter the labour market. And that's the cash-aid ceiling. These are, in fact, what, in my view, is really going to speed up the process of integration, that is to say, that we are simply going to contribute. And when you enter the labour market, you will also have to take to heart the country that you now need to be in for a shorter or longer period of time and thus respect our set of values. However, I think it is important to emphasise that the municipalities are not obliged to find a permanent housing solution within a period of time, but that they can also stay in a room for longer if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154214	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154214-2	But I understand that the Minister's main argument for rejecting the proposal is that the system we have today, the quota system in which the municipalities have a duty to designate first a temporary and then a permanent dwelling, is good for integration. And then I just ask, where's the evidence for that? We have had this system for years now, where refugees are better treated and better off than Danes. It is not the case that if there is a Dane who moves to a municipality, then the municipality stands and trippers to find a residence for the Dane in question. Of course, the Dane must take care of this himself. But if it is a fugitive who comes to the municipality, then the municipality is tripping to find a home for the fugitive. Well, it's discrimination, so it really wants something. It is deeply unreasonable that this should be the case. But the Minister's argument that this should be so is that it is good for integration. But then the question is: on what is the Minister really based?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154301	Well, I simply do not accept the premise of Mr. Martin Henriksen in this, because it is about the overall picture that needs to be looked at, that is to say the demands are being made on the refugees who come out in the municipalities? There is now. This is due to the fact that the Danish People's Party has eagerly supported the tightenings that we have carried out. And then I simply do not think it is possible to say that refugees have priority. I almost think that we can say quite the opposite, because it is now possible to place housing for a long time in so-called temporary dwellings, where, for example, we can now place housing for a long time. may live in the same room.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154344	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister and go to the rapporteurs. First, it's sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154400	The Danish population received a record number of refugees in 2015. It pushes the whole welfare system: more children to be taught in schools; more sick people to have medicine and medical care; more people to have one of the homes we have built but far from as many people who enter the labour market and help to solve the problem. Such an influx cannot continue if the welfare society is to continue. That is why social democracy has helped to limit the number of asylum seekers, and we are actually quite happy with that. But at the same time we are of the opinion that the people who come here must be integrated with the rest of us. This presupposes that they eventually enter the Danish communities, and a first step is to find a home. The Danish People's Party's proposal is about abolishing the obligation of municipalities to designate such housing. We cannot support that at the moment. Social democracy is basically of the opinion that foreigners who have been granted a residence permit should be treated like the rest of us when we meet the municipality. They're not going to the front of the home line, but they're not going to the back of the home line either. There have previously been Social Democratic mayors, among others. in Herlev and Tårnby who have been able to tell that they had to prioritize the refugees first, so that other citizens of the municipality could not get help. This is due to the wording of the integration law that the refugees should be given accommodation as soon as possible. However, after the two-party agreement with the National Association of Municipalities from March 2016, I have certainly not heard such statements from the town halls in Denmark. The agreement has just made it clear that the needs of the refugees for housing must not be put above the needs of other citizens. The parties agreed that the wording should be replaced as soon as possible by the wording whenever possible. This happened after the Social Democratic Party had proposed this very thing. The idea is that the municipalities administer their emergency lists, so it seems reasonable to everyone. This is certainly a task which has not been made any easier by the ceiling of the blue block and the 225-hour rule, but, as I have said, I do not hear that, under the current rules, the municipalities will have to put the refugees ahead in the home queue. What I hear, on the other hand, is that the municipalities make a professional priority to the needs of individual housing seekers and try to deal with the most urgent citizens' cases first. This means, among other things, that children's families are given priority, regardless of whether they are refugees or Danish citizens. That's the way it's supposed to be. If, on the other hand, there are still examples of refugees taking the lead in the home queue simply because they are refugees, then the Social Democrats would very much like to discuss changes, but, as I said, we miss these examples. We would therefore like to call on the proposers to present concrete examples of injustice in the current housing regulations. Then we are always happy to hold a constructive debate, just as we are always happy to discuss whether there is a need to build more non-profit housing more generally. In these words, the Social Democrats reject this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154644	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154646	Thank you. It is undoubtedly the case that if there is a transfer to a municipality which is a Dane, it is not the case that the municipality stands and has to find an accommodation for the person concerned, but if there is a transfer to a municipality which is a refugee, the municipality must find a accommodation for the person concerned. This is an obvious discrimination. You might think it's good and right, but at least it's there. Before Christmas last year, the Social Democratic Party itself proposed that the right of residence of the refugees should be abolished. Am I to understand that the Social Democrats have now dropped it? I remember that we were in some debates together, and the TV 2 news was announced just before we went to negotiations, as far as I remember, that there was a desire to break up with the legal requirement. Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, that it has now been dealt with with the legal requirement laid down in the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154734	I would say that the municipalities today have an obligation to instruct refugees, just as they do to wild Danes. What we wanted before the summer break, and what we consider to be fulfilled, is for refugees to take the lead in the home queue. Then there is a woman who divorces her husband and is missing a home for her children, she must wait for a residence because a move has just arrived that needs the home. We're just judging that the problem has been solved. I said in my rapporteur's speech that if it is the view of the Danish People's Party that the problem has not been solved, that they can point to a concrete example in a place where a municipality has not been able to deal with the problems that exist and indicate the housing to be indicated, we are very interested in discussing it. We just don't want to invent problems that don't exist. So our assessment is that the changes made this summer have solved the problem that we pointed out before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154828	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154830	It is, of course, fair enough to have that view. I just want to understand it 100%. It is the Social Democrats' view that it is quite right and entirely legitimate that refugees are better off in terms of housing than Danes? It is undoubtedly the case that if a Dane is a resident of a municipality, the municipality should not be obliged to find a residence for the Dane in question. However, if a fugitive comes to the municipality, the municipality is obliged to find an accommodation for that refugee. That's the law. That's discrimination. So I'm just gonna ask you about sir. Mattias Tesfaye can confirm that it considers the Social Democracy to be entirely appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154907	We can confirm that we believe that there should be an obligation to instruct refugees who are facing citizens whose houses have been burned down, or people who are left behind for their housing company and can be regarded as homeless. We consider this to be reasonable. However, I would like to admit that before this motion for a resolution was tabled, I have stuck my finger in the hands of a few of the mayors of our own party who have complained about exactly the legal state that was in the spring to see whether they still regard it as a problem. I can, for example. Understand from a mayor that the way in which they have solved it is in the process of building some barracks in which you can temporarily live, and this has taken the pressure of housing pressure, and therefore they are no longer in the situation they were in before the summer break. So we want to try to solve real problems, and we don't think this is a real problem. But if it is, we are very interested in discussing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213154953	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155004	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution here, the authors of the motion will remove the refugee's right to housing when they come to Denmark. It is an initiative which, in the left's optics, will exacerbate integration and, unfortunately, only help to make it more difficult for refugees to get out and contribute to Denmark. Although we share views with the proposers' party in a very, very many ways, we do not agree this time. On the contrary, we believe that the quota system is a very good way of distributing the people who have come here, and it ensures that we spread the burden of refugees throughout the country instead of in a few municipalities. If we stop helping refugees find accommodation, it will mean that many remain in the asylum centres or even worse on the streets. Here they will not be able to contribute to Danish society by working and paying taxes, and thus they risk becoming an unnecessary financial burden for Denmark. In the long term, or rather as soon as possible, we believe that as many of these people as possible will have to return home, among other things. so they can help rebuild their country. Therefore, we also believe that having a home and a permanent job means that you will be qualified and thus better able to help rebuild your country when you come home than if you had just sat at an asylum centre and looked into the wall. Having said that, I would like to say that the Left shares the view that we must help the municipalities at a difficult time if they are under pressure. That is why, as the Minister described earlier, we gave the municipalities a very, very helping hand in the form of a wealth of adjusted rules through, for example. more funds for new general housing, how to accommodate more people together, etc. etc. This means that we are not in the situation we did last year. I can clearly remember last summer when I think about half of Denmark's mayors went out and said that they have no more space, they are pressed to their knees, you have to do something. Then we acted, we did something, we liberalised the law on a number of points, we provided more funds, more opportunities and, most importantly, we probably carried out the most comprehensive asylum restrictions in Danish history, which have contributed very actively to the fact that today we have the lowest number of asylum seekers for five years. So the combination of the new rules we have given to the municipalities, additional funds, more opportunities and asylum restrictions, which have contributed to the fact that we now have the lowest number for five years, makes this discussion that we are standing and having here right now actually superfluous. The municipalities are no longer under pressure. So, of course, I have sympathy for the proposers' intention, but that is something that is a little of last summer. It does not reflect the reality we face today. That is why the Left cannot support the resolution, and I say from the Conservative People's Party that they share our view.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155248	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155251	It is true that the pressure is reduced and good for it. But that does not change the fact that we are still in a situation where refugees are better off than Danes. By the way, the refugees we are talking about here are not wild. They kind of live somewhere. They live in an asylum center. So they're not wild. It is the case that when they move to a new municipality, the municipality has a duty to find accommodation for them. They don't if a Dane moves to the municipality. Why is that fair, I'd like to ask Mr. Marcus Knuth. Why is that fair? I simply cannot understand why it is possible to think that it is quite right for people to come from outside, and so from day to day they are better off than the citizens who have lived in the country for years. Why does the Left think that this is a fair arrangement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155331	At first glance, I understand why the rapporteur thinks, as the rapporteur does. But you have to look at what would happen if we didn't. We have people who have come here, who have now been legally resident in Denmark, who do not know the Danish system, who in many cases do not know the Danish language well enough yet. If we do not help them, we risk that they fall through the cracks, fall outside the system and may end up on the street, maybe end up as criminals and end up not having a job, not contributing to Danish society during the period when they are here, before hopefully going home again. So it helps the individual because you strengthen their skills so that they can better return home and help build their country up when that day comes. And in the period when they are in Denmark, they have a stable existence where they can go out, get a job, pay taxes and contribute to Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155421	But it is not the case that all refugees, if you can call them that, are resourceless. Far from it. They have travelled through many countries, used resources, including personal resources, to reach Denmark. Sir. Marcus Knuth is fully aware that some of them know what the rules are like in the different countries. It's a long way along the way people who have gotten into things we're talking about here. The thing about drawing a picture that these are poor people who can't take care of themselves, if we don't do a lot on the part of society, I just don't buy. Sir. Marcus Knuth also said that the reason why it is important that they go to the municipalities, get help for a home, a job, etc. is that they can be built up as people, and then they will return home at some point. But no one's going home. That's the thing. After all, no one is going home to be told that we are now withdrawing his or her residence permit, because peace has returned to his or her home. That's pretty much not gonna happen. It's very, very few people going home. That's the system, sir. Marcus Knuth is defending and as we have today. If you can see that the system that we have today and that Mr. Marcus Knuth defends, doesn't make people go home, sir. Marcus Knuth didn't see that maybe we should try to think of something new?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155525	I agree, of course, that these are not just resourceless people. That is precisely why we have introduced a new approach to the entire integration process. Instead of refugees not being ready for the labour market as a starting point when they are living in Denmark, you have to per. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. That we want people to enter the labour market while they are in Denmark does not change the fact that the day it is possible to go back to, for example. Syria Let us hope that there will be peace... you will have to return. That is why, in cooperation with the rapporteur's party, we have changed the length of residence permits so that, in some cases, they are only given one year at a time to signal that the day of peace in your home country must be returned home.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155608	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155618	This proposal therefore suggests that new arrivals of refugees should in future enter an expensive housing market and find their own accommodation. It will of course be difficult and in many places in Denmark quite possible, not least on the basis that the vast majority will have to live for the very low integration performance in the future. If or when they cannot find an accommodation they can pay, they will, according to the Danish People's Party, be referred to stay at asylum centres. I think it goes without saying that this is an unsustainable situation for all those who are least interested in integration. This applies both to the refugees it is about, but also to everyone who lives in Denmark. We assume that it is still the plan that refugees should be distributed to municipalities all over the country, so that we all agree on this task of accepting refugees. However, there are not asylum centres in all the municipalities in the country. I do not know how the Danish People's Party imagines that municipalities should work to integrate a refugee who may live in another municipality, possibly far away. Unfortunately, there are also others other than refugees who need help to find accommodation. This is true, for example. violence-stricken women who need to move on from a violent marriage or from a shelter to a new start. This also applies to other vulnerable groups of citizens who are not refugees and who have lived in Denmark either for a very long time or throughout their lives. The answer to the needs of these people is not to deprive the refugees of a right, but to devote more resources to helping other vulnerable groups who lack a proper place to live. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155808	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155811	Thank you. This does not come as the big surprise, but I would like to ask: does Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen think that we have good experience with the current system, which Enhedslisten is basically defending here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155826	At any rate, I have no doubt that we will have extremely bad experiences if we say to refugees who come here and get legal residence: you must find your own place to live. I think many will end up on the street, I think many will end up in crime to find some way to support themselves and pay for somewhere to live, and I have no doubt that it will push these refugees further away from Danish society and make the integration task even more difficult. So I think it will create a totally untenable situation if you say to refugees who come here: it is entirely up to you to find a place to live. This is both an unsustainable situation for the refugees involved, but also for those of us who already live here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155915	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213155916	But the fact is that, unfortunately, we have problems, crime is at least greater among asylum seekers and among people with refugee backgrounds than it is with so many others. We have problems with the fact that there are many people who are outside the labour market, and this is more negative than it is in relation to the rest of the population. We already have so many of the problems that Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen is concerned about today with the present system. That is why the question is simply: does Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen and the Enhedslisten really mean that the current system is the best achievable thing we can get, or could it not be that we should start thinking new things and start saying that if we now, for example, are going to be able to do so? In favour of integration, then it should make very good sense to say: You must take responsibility for finding your home in Denmark yourself. You must take your own responsibility to create a life in Denmark. It does not always have to be the welfare society, the Danish society that comes and pushes you in the right direction. That's what we're doing, and it doesn't actually work very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160012	Now I'm a little in doubt about Mr. Martin Henriksen talks about housing for refugees or integration such very broadly. If the question is whether we could do more, if we could create a better integration of refugees in Denmark, then the answer is yes. It has to be said that Mr. Martin Henriksen's party, the Danish People's Party, has had an extraordinary responsibility for the integration policy that has been conducted over the past many years. Sometimes, when you hear the Danish People's Party, it sounds as if there is some elite or something else and is responsible for integration and immigration policy. But I have to say that if there is a party that has been responsible for the integration policy in Denmark for many, many years, it is the Danish People's Party. If, on the other hand, the question is whether it would create better integration to say to refugees that they must live on the streets or that they must stay in an asylum centre, the answer is: certainly not. I believe that this will significantly increase the problems of integration to the detriment of the refugees and of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160059	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160109	Thank you. You can have many approaches to integration. In the Liberal Alliance, we have the approach of integrating people who come here. They must be part of society, they must live somewhere, they must enter the labour market. This is not an easy task, as far as I think we agree. However, in the Liberal Alliance, we believe that the task of integrating must be solved, because the alternative to good integration is worse: poor or no integration and increasing parallel societies. The municipalities are making good efforts to find accommodation for refugees, and we think they should continue to do so. With good reason, the requirement for housing has been relaxed so that the task has become easier for the municipalities to solve. And then there has been a sneaking up on the idea that refugees somehow have a priority, that is to say, getting ahead in front of others who may need a municipally designated permanent residence. That is not the case, as the Minister explained. I am not opposed to refugees being assigned a place to live, that is quite fundamental to their integration, and the Liberal Alliance cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160220	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160222	Thank you. After all, the Liberal Alliance is, as the name suggests, a liberal party. It's something like personal responsibility, and you're supposed to make sure you make things work. It is a point of view that is raised with Danes in general, but when it comes to refugees, it is a different talk. There must be society, the state, the municipality go in and take responsibility and make sure to find a home for them. I don't want them to do that themselves. Danes usually have to do that in society, and I do not assume that the Liberal Alliance will change it, but refugees have a special position here. That's where we'll take care of them. How does it compare with the general view that people are like their own lucky blacksmith, etc., that you have to have a personal responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160309	But the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party could have a point if it were the case that the Liberal Alliance was a party that was in favour of no state and no political control of anything and hence no political responsibility for anything. But the Liberal Alliance is not such a party. We think there are some tasks for which we should take on board and for which we should take political responsibility, for example. to ensure that in recent years at least many refugees who have come here will play a positive role in our society. This is one of the areas where we think we have a responsibility. And it is certainly not helpful in relation to the task of depriving them of the opportunity or help to find a place to live.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160351	Well, with our proposal, you can still help them. They can get all the leaflets that you can produce for them so that they can find out how to apply for a home in Denmark. I think they're aware of it. But I just don't understand why it is that you often do this liberalist basic principle that you have to take care of yourself and that everyone is your own lucky blacksmith, apply to Danes, but when it's refugees, we take them in hand, and then we sort of move them to where they're supposed to be, because then it's all gonna be really good. And it usually doesn't. There is no experience to show that it will be good. So I just do not understand why the liberalist principles are being applied to Danes, while to refugees it is just a completely different matter. I still don't get it. Maybe I'll do it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160433	It's nice that Mr. Martin Henriksen is starting to take an interest in liberal principles. I would like to clarify this on many occasions. But it is also part of liberalism, at least in a Danish context, that you take responsibility for those who have special needs, i.e. those who cannot cope with themselves under normal conditions. That is where we think, and there I think we should do what we can to make this integration task succeed, in other words to prevent the tendencies towards parallel societies, which are quite clear, from spreading. Of course, you can disagree with that. Of course, you may want parallel societies to become more and more and that is a political point of view which I do not share. I do not think that is the view of the Danish People's Party either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160520	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160528	Thank you. This is then a proposal from the Danish People's Party to abolish refugee rights for housing. We are against this in the alternative. We are of the opinion that the refugees who must remain in Denmark must go to the municipalities as soon as possible, and therefore, of course, they must also have the right to housing. We believe that it is quite the wrong way to shut down the opportunity for them to make a home available. This will hinder integration. On the other hand, we must ensure that we help them as well as possible. We'll all enjoy it. We have to make sure we help them get a job. This will ensure that we get them as colleagues in the future, and it will ensure that we get them as neighbours in the future, and it will ultimately ensure that we get them as good friends in the future. Thus they also have the opportunity to become decent fellow citizens in Danish society. So we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160620	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160633	So many fine and sensible things have been said by the Minister and by a number of rapporteurs, and I believe that a great many of us agree on this matter. Refugees who come here and are entitled to be here must get started as soon as possible. We would like them to get started even more quickly, as soon as they arrive and contribute what they can. We know that the sooner you get started, the sooner you can contribute. This also means, of course, that refugees should not be accommodated in asylum centres once they have been granted asylum and residence. That is why we in the Radical Left, not surprisingly, are opposed to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160720	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160734	Many sensible things have been said in the rejection of this proposal by the Danish People's Party, not least that it will damage integration. That is why we think it is absolutely wrong that we should go this way. But as you can see from the proposal, it is part of the Danish People's Party's campaign to come back again and, as you say, you feel the intention and are voted out. Of course, we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160815	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213160827	Thank you. This proposal is for the government to abolish refugees' legal claims on housing and thus ensure that refugees themselves become responsible for finding and financing a residence in the municipality for which they are searched. If a refugee is unable to find a suitable accommodation, the person concerned must stay in an asylum centre for payment. In our view, it is deeply unreasonable and quite incomprehensible in the Danish People's Party that refugees should receive special treatment in relation to other housing seekers. And it becomes quite grotesque when refugees even say 'no' to the housing offered, as there have also been a number of examples. Nor is it reasonable for the municipality's case officers to devote time and resources to complying with the requirements of the law in order to find and offer accommodation to the refugees. These resources and ultimately tax crowns can be used elsewhere in the public sector and on other tasks in the municipality. Against this background, we in the Danish People's Party believe that the obligation of the municipalities to assign housing to refugees should be abolished. This applies both to temporary housing and to permanent housing. This means that refugees should no longer have a so-called right to housing. On the other hand, the person concerned must take responsibility for finding a dwelling in the municipality to which he is assigned. If a refugee is unable to find a suitable accommodation, the person concerned will live in an asylum centre. So he will not be homeless. Until the refugee has found a residence on his own in the municipality to which he or she has been searched, he or she lives in a centre. It is expected that the proposal, if adopted, will bring great administrative relief for the municipalities. It is also expected that in the long term, if adopted, the proposal will have a positive effect on the sustainability of the Danish economy, as Denmark will appear less attractive as a country of asylum if the legal requirement for housing is completely abolished. Adoption of the proposal will also mean that the Danes will no longer be considered second-class citizens in their own country. Of course, I sense that there is no overwhelming support for the proposal. There has been a slight improvement in current legislation, as some have said, but we are far from achieving it. But that should not prevent me from thanking you for the debate. And I can also tell you that at a later stage we will raise it again from the side of the Danish People's Party, if not in this edition, then in a different version.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161037	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161055	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161116	The proposers have proposed the introduction of user charges for interpreting services, and let me start by saying that I have a great deal of sympathy with the proposal. I do not think it is reasonable in any way that foreigners who have lived in Denmark for several years do not speak enough Danish to be able to cope with everyday situations, for example. visiting the doctor or in conversation at their children's school. When you come to Denmark and are allowed to stay here, you have to bring the whole package with you, and that means of course that you have to learn Danish, manage in everyday life and contribute to society. That must not be called into question. This is precisely why we in the government are working with both stick and carrots to ensure that newly arrived foreigners learn Danish as soon as possible and get into employment and become contributing citizens. I hope that it is quite clear to any new arrival refugee or foreigner who comes to Denmark that the Danish language is thus a crucial access key to becoming part of Danish society. That is the message that is given out in the asylum centres, in the municipalities, in the companies, and that is also the message, and I will give it over and over again. That is why last year we adopted the Danish supplement clause, which is given to people who receive integration benefit and who have passed the test in Danish 2 or a test at a higher level. That is why we have tightened up the requirements for Danish knowledge as a prerequisite for obtaining permanent residence permits and Danish citizenship, and that is why we are currently improving and also preparing for the implementation of a major Danish education reform, in which crucial emphasis is placed on the fastest possible acquisition of language skills by foreigners in order to enter the labour market. In other words, we are already using both cane and carrot to get foreigners to learn Danish, and I also believe that this is the right way to go. But there is still some way to go, and there is a group of foreigners who, even after many years in Denmark, have not learned the Danish language and have an interpreter made available in several contexts. The problem which is then raised here precisely, particularly the problem of user charges for interpretation today, has also been discussed on several occasions, and this also gives reason to say that the Ministry of Justice's assessment is that the collection of user charges for interpreting services may give rise to some legal concerns, but that the weight of those concerns will depend entirely on the situations involved. But that means that we cannot simply introduce an absolute requirement for full user charges for interpretation in the public sector after two years' stay in Denmark, with the exception of the judiciary, which the motion for a resolution proposes here. However, in view of the above attitude of the government, i.e. that we reject the proposal, I would say that the government does not wish to reject a discussion on user charges for interpretation, because we believe that there can be situations where it is justified to question the reasonableness of the public to pay for interpretation and because we believe that there should therefore also be a limit to what the public should pay. I can therefore say that we are willing to discuss the whole question of interpretation, but that the proposal as it stands here is rejected by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161530	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161534	Thank you. In contrast to the Minister's previous speech, I would like to acknowledge that there were also some positive voices on the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution. I would then like to ask a little more precisely whether the government has any thought about where it would like to introduce user charges for interpretation, and is there any part of the public sector in which one thinks that one can intervene? We have had it in hospitals in the past; we had it under the former VK government, but then the Social Democratic-Radio-Socialist People's Party government abolished it, and it could be that it was one of the things that could be reinstated again. Is that some of the thoughts the government has?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161615	That is to a large extent some of what the government will be willing to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161624	It is good that the government is willing to discuss it. Then it might be relevant to know a little more precisely what the government has of considerations, and it might also be relevant to know whether the government is working on some schedule. Because it is fair enough that the government says it is willing to discuss it, but is there some timetable for it; is it before summer or before next Christmas? It could be very nice to get it on the field.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161650	There is no timetable as it stands now, but I can say that this is an area in which I think we should have a good discussion, and I would also believe that this is a discussion in which the Danish People's Party wishes to take part. It certainly has something to do with the fact that we are having a look at this area, and that is quite correct, as Mr. Martin Henriksen also said that in the time of the former VK government there was precisely user fees in the health care system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161720	Thank you to the Minister and then we will move on to the number of rapporteurs. The first in line is sir. Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161729	Thank you. And thank you for the suggestion. We have spent some time discussing back and forth in the Social Democratic Party. After all, we are basically in favour of a welfare society in which we redistribute wealth, first and foremost between wealthy and less well-off, but also between parts of the country and between generations. And it can only work if there is a high degree of cohesion between people in our society. People who come here as refugees and immigrants must therefore learn Danish. That's how Denmark works. They need to understand what the rest of us are saying in order to understand what we mean, how we feel and who we are. And they must be able to speak Danish, so that the rest of us can understand what they mean, how they feel, and who they are. Cohesion, community, solidarity presupposes a common language. It cannot therefore be right that some citizens cannot live in Danish after many years in the country. Nor can it be right for the remaining citizens to have to pay for expensive interpreters for years. People have to get in the fight themselves. You must learn something Danish. That is the starting point of the Social Democrats, and that is why we actually have a great deal of sympathy for the intention of this resolution from a general point of view of fairness. But if we cannot support this specific motion for a resolution, it is because we also have other considerations to take into account. Firstly, we fear that in practice the resolution will mean that more children will be in the hospital and translate the doctor's messages to their parents. That's not fair. Children should be children. It is the parents' responsibility to explain to the children that the diseases are incurable. It's not the other way around. Secondly, we fear that many immigrants will stay home from parent meetings in kindergartens and schools. But that's what they have to do, you can think. No, we do not think so on the part of the Social Democrats. This affects not only the parents but, above all, their children and the unity of the entire class. We fear, in this way, that user charges on interpreters will put integration back, and that will not work. Finally, there are some legal aspects to the management of e.g. social legislation, to which we must pay attention. As I have said, we are voting against this resolution, but we would like to say from here that we would very much like to contribute to a subsequent discussion of whether the state's expenditure on interpreting services can be tightened up. It must only be in a way that neither affects children nor destroys integration. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161935	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213161954	Thank you. And thank you to the proposers for this relevant debate on user charges for interpreting services. For the Left, it goes without saying that those who want to stay in our society speak Danish. If you don't speak Danish, you're automatically on the sidelines of this society. There is often no, or at least very bad, opportunity here to become part of the community of which the rest of us are a part. The consequence of this is that you often do not work at a Danish workplace, which is absolutely necessary for integration. That is why I also have sympathy for the proposal made here by the Danish People's Party. It is and remains unsatisfactory that people can live in Denmark for a number of years without speaking Danish. We must and must be able to expect, at least after a few years, to be able to communicate with the doctor in the hospital, with the school teacher, with the neighbour and at work without extraordinary help from an interpreter. That is why the Left has already supported the initiatives which provide increased incentives to learn the Danish language. This applies both to general integration, which we have given a boost through the two and three-way negotiations, but it also applies to the concrete measures that we have adopted in the field of languages, for example. Danish supplement to the integration benefit and the stricter requirements for Danish knowledge if you want permanent residence permit or citizenship. That is why we are positive about the intention of the proposal put forward here by the Danish People's Party. But the format it has here is simply too rigid for us to support it. I am therefore pleased to hear the Minister say that we would like to look at what can be done in a more appropriate framework. Therefore, the Left does not support the proposal as it stands here, but we would like to see whether we can work towards what to call the purpose of this proposal in a more appropriate way. I should say from the Conservative People's Party that they share our view.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213162151	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213162203	This proposal, if adopted, would, fortunately, not seem to lead to misunderstandings, misreportings, mistreatment. Children would be pressured into interpreting for their parents and grandparents about serious health and social conditions, and this is something we have fortunately been trying to combat for many years, that is, the fact that children interpret for their parents, among other things. in the health system. Doctors, midwives, nurses, educators and teachers would find it harder to communicate with their patients and with parents who, for one reason or another, do not speak Danish enough. And that would be detrimental to human health, to the upbringing and well-being of children. Already today, people who settle in Denmark as a refugee or as an immigrant have strong incentives to learn Danish. In some cases it does not succeed. There may be good reasons for this, for example. that you are severely traumatized or come here without any schooling. There may also be bad reasons for this. But no matter what, I don't believe for a second that this proposal would make more people learn Danish. When we talk interpretation, there is a need for something quite different. We need a certification system, a publicly available list of interpreters with a clear indication of the interpreters' qualifications, in order to ensure that interpreters in the public sector can quickly and effectively obtain an overview of where they find the most suitable interpreter for the task. We need increased use of remote interpretation with tablets and other modern aids, so it is no problem if the patient is in Hjørring and Denmark's best-qualified interpreter for the task lives in Nexø. We need an SU eligible, publicly funded interpretation training in the most important refugee and immigrant languages. And we need language teaching, such as Arabic, Turkish and Somali high-level secondary schools spread across all regions, so that we exploit and improve the great resource we have in the form of well-qualified and knowledgeable young people with a different ethnic background from Danish. This will make it possible for these young people or some of them later to apply for good interpreting training. In other words, I think there are all kinds of things we can do to strengthen the interpretation in Denmark, and this is in fact very much needed. The staff in the health sector, the judicial system, the social system and the asylum system have been calling for this at long last, but it has nothing to do with this proposal. This proposal will just lead to patients who can't talk to their doctor, doctors who can't talk to their patient, children who are put to interpret, school teachers in primary school who can't talk to the parents who have children in class, educators who can't talk to the parents whose children go to kindergarten. There is nothing good about that, on the contrary. The Enhedslisten does not vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213162454	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213162504	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance is in favour of user charges for certain public services, especially when this is done as a substitute for our very high taxes. That is why, on the basis of the motion for a resolution, we are also in favour of demanding user charges for interpreting services, especially when the judicial system is excluded from the proposal. However, if we do not support the resolution as it stands here, it is because the Ministry of Justice considers that there are some legal problems in what the Minister also explained. Consideration of international conventions must be balanced and the administrative authorities are obliged to make interpreters available to people who cannot speak Danish. So more user charges, yes, but it must of course be possible to roll out within the framework and not outside the framework of the conventions that we have signed. And within that balance, we would like to continue working on the idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213162602	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213162613	Thank you. We are now discussing the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party to introduce user charges for interpretation in the public sector after two years' stay in Denmark. This must apply throughout the public domain except in the Danish judicial system and in cases where a person is seriously ill. The Danish People's Party justifies this by saying that it is unreasonable for us as a society to make interpreters available to foreigners who have not learned Danish after 2 years. It is explained that it will be an incentive for them to learn Danish as soon as possible. I shall start by saying that we cannot vote in favour of the proposal, and we cannot do so because, in the alternative, we believe that this is fundamentally contrary to administrative principles. We believe that it will compromise the legal certainty of citizens and, in addition, in fact, it will have a negative impact on integration. The Minister has already explained the administrative and legal issues, but just in order to clarify it from the point of view of the Alternative, I would like to say that it is the municipalities that are responsible for the reliable information of the cases being dealt with and that the citizens have a duty in this regard to contribute to the disclosure of their case. Similarly, health care does not allow a treatment to be initiated or amended without the informed consent of the individual citizen and it is important that the decisions taken in the health care system are taken together with the patient and on the basis of the individual conditions of the patient. There we are now providing free interpretation services if the caseworker in the municipality or the doctor considers it necessary to comply with the law. So in order for the client or patient concerned to understand what is going on, we're catching up with interpreters. If this proposal is introduced, I am very, very concerned that, firstly, we are seeing a large number of citizens left behind. If e.g. A mother must make contact with the hospital because she has a sick child but cannot behave properly in Danish, it can prevent her from even showing up with the child in question. This may also mean that parents who are currently being provided with interpreters will use their children to interpret. I do not know whether the Danish People's Party has thought of the situation of having a parent who is seriously ill but who does not speak well enough Danish to understand his own illness, who cannot afford to seek interpretation and who therefore takes his child as an interpreter. And then the child, for example... sit and hear that its parent has a very serious illness. This is certainly a situation we do not want to put anyone in. Nor do I believe in the assumption that learning Danish will help. I am of the opinion that we have done a great deal to ensure that all our residents in Denmark can learn Danish, and I simply do not believe that the fact that we are saying that they themselves now have to pay for their interpreters will increase the motivation to learn Danish. That motivation, I think, is abundantly present today. I think it is very important to say that legal certainty and the administrative and legal guarantees that we have here in Denmark apply to all the citizens of the country. I find it incredibly difficult to understand that we must compromise on it. I must also say that I find it difficult to understand the positive statements that are being made from up here. I think we all agree that it is a very good idea for all our fellow citizens to speak Danish, but to use such a proposal here, as the Danish People's Party would like, to deprive our fellow citizens of legal certainty in the administrative system, I think is a completely, completely wrong way to go in the Danish judicial community. And I hope that the Danish People's Party agrees that the guarantees of legal certainty continue to apply to all Danes and all citizens of Danish society. I would like to repeat once again that we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163045	There is a brief comment from Mattias Tesfaye, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163050	We cannot support this resolution either, but now the rapporteur has just mentioned something that I am thinking of, among other things. is aimed at the Social Democratic Party. So I would like to ask the Alternative's rapporteur whether the alternative thinks it is reasonable that, for example, we should be able to do something about it. I have seen two or three interpreters standing at parent meetings in schools and interpreting to people who have lived in the country for 15 or 20 years. Seems the alternative, it's fair that other citizens in this community should pay 600 kr. per hour per hour interpreter?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163129	I think we need to take the consequences of the policy we have pursued, including in the past. In other words, yes, I think that is fair. If we have some citizens who still cannot Danish, in Denmark, then I would like to help the common fund pay for this. I get so worried when I'm asked this question with that outrage in my voice: do I think that's fair? What I think is reasonable is that we ensure that all citizens who live in Denmark and who we have allowed to live in Denmark can have their administrative and legal guarantees fulfilled. I think it is incredibly dangerous to embark on the path in which we allow that outrage over what we pay from the common fund to dominate our statements, our statements and our rhetoric.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163222	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163222-2	I feel a great responsibility for ensuring that the welfare society is linked and that the money is spent on what we think is reasonable for it to be spent on. I do not know if I am outraged, but it is a political position that I have. Now I know that the alternative has been set up, among other things. from a concept called empathy. The rapporteur can try to understand the situation of foreigners. If, for example, the rapporteur: Imagine that the rapporteur had moved to China, had children in China and had children in the Chinese primary school, would the rapporteur think that it was right and proper for the Chinese state to provide a Danish interpreter for a parent meeting after the rapporteur had lived there for 15 years? Or would the rapporteur think it was just as handsome?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163306	After all, when it comes to empathy, you always have to take into account the people to whom you have to show empathy. There is no doubt that some of the people who have come to Denmark over the years and who we also see coming to Denmark now are illiterate. They come from some cultures, for example. Women do not share in public life in the same way. That's what empathy is all about. Not everyone is as resourceful as I am. I'm not sure I could learn Chinese, but of course I would make the greatest effort to learn Chinese, but it may well be that I would never be so good at Chinese that I would understand what was said without an interpreter if I were admitted to a Chinese hospital and had some diagnosis. I'm not gonna be able to say that. I don't know a word Chinese, and I don't know if I'd be good at it. Excuse me, Chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163410	The next question is Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163412	Thank you very much. In fact, I think that the rapporteur for the Socialist Group has a very good point. For the rapporteur must have an upper limit on when it is reasonable that the Danish state should no longer have to pay an interpreter. After all, these are people who have voluntarily gone to Denmark. Then I can have some limited understanding that in the first very, very short time you need an interpreter. But people who travel to Denmark do well for the purpose of being part of Denmark, to learn the Danish language. I guess you don't come here just to sit in a parallel society. So does the rapporteur have an upper limit on how long Danish taxpayers will continue to pay interpretation assistance to people who have been here for years? I ask precisely because we have great sympathy for the Danish People's Party's proposals here. We just think that the way it is formulated is too rigid.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163503	Well, of course I have a presumption that people who come to Denmark would like to learn Danish in order to be included in Danish society. But what do we do about the people who can't? Then I will refer the question back to Mr. Marcus Knuth. Does the Left really care if we respect the principles of administrative law?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163521	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163523	No, I'm not. But people who come here do well with some kind of expectation of learning basic Danish. After all, we see some refugees who, in a few months' time, speak incredibly well Danish. Then it cannot be right that there are people who, after 10 or 15 years, cannot survive in society without a tax-paid interpreter. Then the rapporteur said before that there are also women who do not participate in public life. Does this mean that the rapporteur actually accepts that some immigrant women just sit at home and do not participate in Danish society and that this is quite all right?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163558	Well, there I am again asked the question of whether I will accept that there is someone. There are just de facto some groups, and there are, for example. Some women. We know that. It's because it's been many years since they've come. In the past, our ability to integrate has not been very good. I think that a great many initiatives have been taken, including: our tripartite agreement now here, which will ensure that we quickly get refugees cleared of jurisdiction. They're being matched with the municipalities and stuff like that. I think there are a lot of good initiatives, so we can get them into the labour market and thus become part of Danish society. But we just have to accept that, at least I would like there to be some people who don't necessarily know Danish as well. I think it is so problematic if we do not think that the same legal requirements should apply in society as apply to the rest of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163651	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163700	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we are also opposed to this proposal, as the vast majority of parties are. For us, how we make the most sense of our integration is crucial. Who is it that we want to help when we provide interpreting services? In fact, as the Socialist rapporteur, I can be both annoyed and sorry that there are people who have lived very, very many years here who have not learned Danish. But you also have to go behind and see what the reason for this is. At the moment, I am very much in the socially vulnerable residential areas and meet, for example. with the women's groups that are there. They are large groups of women who have really taken a fight that has done away with oppressive standards. A lot of them speak good and fluent Danish. Some don't. A great many of them, not to say all of them, are deeply, deeply concerned that their children must do well. This is among other things. Therefore, that they attend parent meetings and because they want to participate in their children's community life. We want them to come there. It is very important for me and the Radical Left that they are not prevented from participating in the development of their children and take responsibility for it, even if it requires an interpreter. In the Radical Left, we think it is absolutely crucial that we can communicate together across all public authorities. Unfortunately, it is often public authorities that can be really difficult to understand if you come with a different background. That is why communication is the first way to better integration. We need to understand each other. You have to learn Danish for that. We must do a great deal about that. Therefore, we should not prevent children from having the best integrated parents at all. They are the ones who follow their lives best, and by the way, we should not put the children at all at risk of being the interpreters of the parents, which would also be the result of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163944	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213163948	Thank you very much. I am glad that the rapporteur agrees that the way in which the proposal is formulated here is not something that can be supported. However, we have made it very clear that we support the intention of the Danish People's Party here, and we intend to see whether it can be met in some way that is more appropriate, both in terms of balancing what is fair to refugees, but at the same time not just to let it go, so that people can use interpreting aid year after year as they like, without learning Danish. Does the rapporteur agree with that approach, in other words, that we should look critically at whether we can tighten up these rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164027	No, I'm not. I believe that this will have dramatic consequences for children and for integration and that it will have much greater economic costs for society, and that will be the concerns that I will weigh up and consider. So, immediately, I do not imagine that we can support it, but that will depend on a concrete assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164048	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164049	I'm a little surprised. There must be situations out there where the rapporteur sees that there is a man or a woman who has been, for example. 15 years in Denmark without learning basically Danish we take our heads at least and say: This is not good enough, we have to tighten up the rules. Of course, they need to be tightened up in a way that is not as rigid as it is here, but the rules need to be tightened up. Is the rapporteur really so open-minded that people will simply be allowed to come here and use Danish interpretation aid without restrictions?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164121	No, I'm so preoccupied with the economic consequences of society. Well, sir, that's what I'm supposed to do. Marcus Knuth be, too. I am concerned about the consequences that this will have for children, what it will cost our society, and what consequences it will have for integration. And that will be what concerns me and the Radical Left most, because that is what will eventually lead to far greater costs for our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164142	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then I give the floor to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164155	We cannot support this proposal either. I agree with those who have said that it is important for integration that people who come to this country learn Danish as soon as possible. I think everyone here in the Folketing agrees on that. That's not what we discuss so much. The question is how we do it and whether we are willing to impose sanctions which will have very major legal consequences and also a large number of practical consequences. It really surprises me that there are some who want to, because this is not a necessity in relation to the fact that we can raise the level of Danish knowledge. This is basically just a sanction that will make it far, much more difficult in schools, in the judicial system, in hospitals, in all the places where you have to be able to communicate fairly accurately with each other if you are to have a proper result. So it is possible that the Danish People's Party assumes that this is the case per year. Automatically causes foreigners to speak Danish, but it is a very optimistic premise, and until that happens, there will be some terrible consequences out there. So this is a proposal that we cannot promote. And I think that instead of discussing this, we should discuss how, if I may say so, to make more people learn Danish for the sake of integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164338	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164346	Thank you. And thank you for the speeches and the debate. If the proposal which lies here is adopted, the Folketing will require the Government to submit a bill introducing full user charges for interpretation in the public sector after two years' stay in Denmark. In the Danish People's Party we believe that foreigners who have spent 2 years in Denmark should be able to stand on their own feet. Foreigners who have been here for a long time cannot expect public bodies to pay for interpretation year after year because they have not learned the Danish language. It is unreasonable that Danish taxpayers should pay because there are foreigners who do not want to learn the language. The proposal gives foreigners time to learn the language, and if they do, they will not be burdened financially by the proposal. The foreigners concerned are therefore very much responsible for whether or not interpretation is needed. The user fee shall apply to all parts of the public sector, with the exception of the judiciary. In relation to the judiciary, the Danish People's Party intends to make a separate proposal on this matter. In other words, this proposal proposes user charges for interpretation in relation to hospitals, municipalities, schools, kindergartens, etc. The proposal will support the incentives for foreigners to learn Danish as soon as possible in order to be able to commit themselves in society, including in relation to public bodies. In addition, Danish society will save a larger amount if user charges are introduced, which is why the proposal will also improve the public economy in Denmark and free up resources that can be usefully used elsewhere in the public sector. I would like to thank you for the debate. I understand that there is no support for the proposal as it stands, but that there is a majority wishing to restrict the use of interpretation. That is a good thing, and I would like to sign for it. Then there is something to work on, either in the Integration Committee or in the Ministry. So we'll get back to that. It has to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164535	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164539	Thank you. After all, we cannot support this proposal for three reasons: firstly, we fear that children will be used as interpreters for their parents; secondly, we are nervous that it will damage integration by parents staying away from day-care sessions and, secondly, because we... No, let me start somewhere else. We have discussed the possibility of requiring that, if you have been granted a permanent residence permit, you should pay for interpreting services yourself. What will the Danish People's Party say about that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164618	The rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164620	I think that would be a step in the right direction from the point of view of the Danish People's Party. By the way, I'd like to sign for what Mr. Mattias Tesfaye has said and that the Social Democratic Party certainly welcomes the intentions behind it. But that they said that when you have been granted permanent residence permits, you have to pay for yourself, I think that is the least you could ask, namely that you should be aware that according to current rules you can get a permanent residence permit after 6 years, and according to the rules that are probably adopted in the Folketing before the summer of next year, you will be able to have it after 8 years, and it may be a very long time to wait, so we would like to see user payments introduced before that. Anyway, it's a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164702	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164704	Our immediate idea is, of course, that we think it might be sensible if there was a connection, so that people who applied for a permanent residence permit could also expect that then one could be able to perform in society on an equal footing with others and could work in the Danish language. Our last concern was about legal certainty at the aid office, in other words social legislation. If, for example, you're gonna have to... We also think it is quite important that this should be done after very precise discussions and that there is no misunderstanding whatsoever in this respect. So I just want to ask whether the Danish People's Party, apart from the judiciary, which we are delighted to be exempt from this proposal, could also agree that this should also apply where there could be some legal certainty aspects of social legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164748	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164750	It goes without saying that in general terms we want to introduce user charges on interpretation, we are of course also interested in entering into a debate on the border where the cut should be. I don't care if it's right there, like Mr. Knox. Mattias Tesfaye says, I'm not gonna get stuck on my feet. But one could also imagine that there were some situations where it was said that a public authority estimates that there is a need for an interpretation, and if the person concerned does not then have to be able to understand the message delivered by a case worker or what it might be willing to pay, one might well have a rule that says that if it is then over a certain number of years, and even if one considers that there should be interpretation, he is required to pay for that interpretation himself, and if he cannot or does not want to do so, then, for example, social benefits may be deducted. So you can find different models for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164836	It does not appear that there are any more who wish to make brief comments, and so we thank Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161213164857	There is nothing more to be done in this sitting, so I should like to thank everyone for their work today in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 14 December 2016, at 3 pm. 9. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
