ParlaMint-DK_20161125100005	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Hasteforskning nr. F 12 (What will the government undertake of initiatives to limit biker and gang crime in general and gang-related shootings in public spaces in particular?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20161125100051	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125100103	Thank you. Our healthcare system consists of a great many tasks to be solved, mainly tasks that are being solved in the municipalities and in the regions. Hospitals appear as if you could say lighthouses in our public health care. Here, citizens can and must be treated and, if necessary, hospitalized when they need it. Hospitals are absolutely indispensable, but it is also clear today that, for the sake of their health and well-being, citizens should only be hospitalized when it is absolutely necessary. That is why, in every context, we must ensure as targeted a prevention of admissions as possible. This task is largely the responsibility of the municipalities, both the citizen-oriented and the patient-oriented prevention. An evaluation of the municipalities' incentives made in 2015, incentives in relation to what the municipalities can and should do to avoid hospitalisation of the municipality's citizens, shows that there are modest incentives to weight this task, that the incentives are not linked to the municipalities' real opportunities in preventing hospitalisation of citizens. The Minister for Health and the Elderly has now entered into an agreement with the Municipality of Landsforening and Danske Regioner, and it is built into the economic agreement for 2017, where the incentives are changed and coupled with the municipalities' co-financing of the hospitals' operations. The content is outlined as follows: firstly, that local authorities should give greater weight to their efforts in the area of home care and health care; secondly, that there are some technical adjustments to promote cooperation between municipalities and regions; thirdly, that the benefits should be redistributed when operating the new super hospitals; fourthly, that municipalities can and must now differentiate co-financing of regional health care according to some age criteria, so that priority is given to children under 2 years of age and older people over 65 years of age, and that this is what becomes a framework for co-financing; fifthly, it is also a question of changing a settlement when patients who have been admitted are moved from one hospital to another, and we also need to examine the link between additional payments and reimbursement; and sixthly, there is a change that makes the regions unable to increase the activity of patients only in order to achieve greater local co-financing. The agreement, as I have already mentioned, has been concluded between the Minister for Health and the elderly, the Minister for Finance, the municipalities and the regions. The Social Democrats support the intention of the proposal, because there must be visible and good incentives to increase municipal efforts, but so there are also a large number of issues and points of attention, and the Social Democrats will pay close attention to several things forward to the third reading. The criticism is very direct when you look at the answers to the hearings, among others. from Elderre Sagen, Lægeforeningen, Danske Patients, Danske Eldersråd, FOA, Health Cartel and National Knowledge Centre for Dementia. They all fear that the age criterion may be a question of patients being no, that is what they are not, but citizens who may need to be patients, to a greater extent not being admitted. The fact that it will be some other criteria on the basis of which to admit or not is a concern, and I think that this is a real concern, and that is why we in the Social Democrats will be working to ensure that monitoring and follow-up of the consequences of the law are built in. We will propose to the third reading that a progress report be drawn up for the Health Committee after one year, that an evaluation be included in the legislative proposal after two to three years, so that we can follow the effects that will have on the impact of the legislative proposal. One thing we in the Socialist Group are aware of is that this bill contains more than anything else, I think I have been rapporteur on, a large number of ministerial powers, and the fact that so many ministerial powers are built in always calls for increased political attention. I think that we should also include in the draft law a report to the committee when the Minister takes new powers. I would like to conclude by saying that, for example, the pediatricians, the pediatricians, their association in Denmark, in their hearing answer, state that it is in fact in very few cases, according to their assessment, that the municipalities can reduce the admission of young children. I think we should also be aware of this. If these wishes I have outlined can be met until the third reading, then the Social Democrats will support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125100623	There is one comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125100624	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. Now I could understand that the Socialists will support the proposal if you get this monitoring, but I would like to hear the rapporteur's position. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned a concern for the pediatrics. The Elders case has also pointed out that in fact 47 per cent. of citizens over 65 may be connected with the hospital service, but not related to the municipal home care. It is, after all, a relatively large group of citizens in which it can be said that the municipality has very little opportunity to go in and do preventive treatment for them. Isn't that a concern we should take very seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125100707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125100708	Indeed, I think that the concerns raised in some very specific and very objective consultation answers should be very much taken into account. What we in the Social Democratic Party want with our health services is for the municipal and regional health services to be more closely and more closely connected. We believe that this can help to support and ensure a more healthy life, a life of better well-being, and that is why we must ensure that the regional and municipal sections are incorporated, because if we focus on the patients associated with the regional health service but are not associated with the local community, we can say that the practitioners are in a tension between them, and we in the Social Democratic Group believe that the function of the medical practitioner in the medical centers can also greatly help to focus attention on the citizens who are sick and who come to the regional health service but do not come to the local community. We believe that would be a very good future to set up in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125100814	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125100816	Thank you. After all, I fully agree with the rapporteur that the important thing is to secure the coherent health care where both general practice and the municipality and the region play together. What I find a little worrying about this, and what amazes me a little is that the Socialists do not have much scepticism about it, is precisely the fact that it is going to be so much about the economic sanctions in relation to this, because that in itself will not necessarily strengthen the cooperation between the general practice and the municipality and the region. It's just gonna be a very rigid approach to the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125100845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125100846	Thank you for the question. That is certainly not what we want from the Socialist side. And that's also why I'm saying that this is what we have to follow, this is what we have to monitor, this is what we need to learn more. And it should not only be the Minister for Health and the elderly who can sit with his authority and do something, we as a country must learn more about this, because everyone wants the best for the Danish population in terms of health. That's why we need to connect the vessels even better. We do not want this to be a rigid economic consideration, but the municipalities themselves have said that they lack incentives to do so even better. That is why we think we must try it out, but follow it very closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125100924	The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125100935	The Minister starts the bill by preventing any hospitalisation that could have been prevented. I think we all agree on that, because we must ensure that we take good care of our sick and elderly. However, I do not entirely agree with the premise that municipalities suspect that they are not doing so. Now it's the case that I've been working a lot of years on this field, both on one side and on the other side of the table. This is precisely something that has been taken up widely in the various municipalities. Many good incentives have been made for the elderly and the sick. And the fact that we actually already have a payment to the hospitals today makes it very clear that in many municipalities around here I can just mention my own area, Køge and Slagelse has emergency teams of nurses who have to go out in the municipality and make sure that we do not see the admissions that can be prevented. This draft law, which amends the premise we have today that all admissions cost the same for the municipality, makes admissions of children between the ages of 0 and 2 and the elderly over the age of 65 more expensive. In many municipalities some of these admissions have been looked through. One of the challenges facing admissions is that citizens who are part of hospitalizations are not seen in home care. It's kind of hard when the municipality doesn't know. If there is someone over 65 who is being hospitalized who does not want or does not have his or her home care, then the municipality will not be informed of it. This is something I think we should look at with this particular bill when it is being dealt with. We need to look at how we can take action. The Elder Case points out the same in their hearing answer and states that only 15.5%. of 65-year-olds receive home help and treatment. So it's a little difficult to make a preventive effort on the part of people you don't know. With this tariff increase for the elderly, we in the Danish People's Party are afraid that it will affect the municipalities which already have a high proportion of the elderly and will therefore pay a lot more. We want the Minister, with this proposal, to ensure what we have said several times, namely that the elderly, who have to be printed, are ready for printing, as far too many are printed from hospitals too soon. So maybe we should look at fines the other way too. If you print a patient prematurely, the region should pay, so it is an incentive for the region not to do so. The proposal also envisages an increase in the rate of infant admissions, which I do not like either. We have often talked in this room about how quickly birthing all too often is released before they feel safe, and so quickly that they did not get started breast-feeding. That's why they're being remanded very quickly. This is not something that the municipality itself is in control of. It is now a place where many municipalities have to give priority, and no money comes with it. It is therefore important in both of these age groups to cooperate between all health care actors, as this is not just the municipality's problem. I fear that the admissions of some of the weakest in society will be prevented and will therefore pay close attention to what is happening. One of the good things in the proposal is that you do not calculate extra payments for patient relocation between hospitals. Instead, printing is carried out per region. Here I just want to ask the Minister what happens when you are moved from one region to another. I think that the region I come from, the Region of Zealand, does not have all the specialties themselves. So it costs more when you're moved to another region? As the rapporteur before me mentioned, this is an agreement made with the KL, which I am actually trying to protect. The first time I was presented with the proposal, I also said that this is not something we can support. But when the Minister then made an agreement with KL and has got it into the economic agreement, we support the proposal, but we will sit on the sidelines and pay attention. We also support some of the points raised by the previous rapporteur. We need to see an evaluation; it must be possible to change it if things go wrong. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125101429	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125101438	Today, we are dealing first with the draft law amending the financing of the regions. The bill is based on an agreement on changes to the municipal co-financing concluded between KL and Danske Regioner on the economics of the regions and municipalities for 2017. Effective prevention is a key task for the municipalities, and that makes sense, because it is the municipalities that are closest to the citizens, and that is where you know where the shoe is pressed. There are in particular two groups that are at risk. Both groups are vulnerable and need to ensure care, care and attention in the municipalities, and yes, prevention is also care. The groups that I am thinking of, and which this bill is aimed at, are young children and older people over 65 years of age. Some municipalities do very well, others have little to work with. There is a need to strengthen financial incentives so that more municipalities are encouraged to make more targeted prevention efforts. In my optics 35,000 final days in 2015 are far too high, and in the first half of the year it was 19,300 preventable admissions. We must be able to do better than that. No matter who you are, hospitalization is often associated with some turbulence, uncertainty, and perhaps anxiety. We often talk about preventable admissions, that is, admissions which could have been avoided if due care had been taken or perhaps had just been focused in the right place. Now we put the long light on and support a sharpened municipal focus so that the future's elderly and young children hopefully will not experience hospitalization. There are many skilled health professionals in the Danish healthcare system. One of the groups that plays a major role in early life and has an important task is the health care cores. With the bill here, we also focus on the key role of healthcare professionals, and the goal is that in future they will more closely follow up on the newborns and their well-being in the early days, so that both children and new parents should not experience hospitalization as one of the first in a particularly sensitive period for a small new family. I note that some of the consultations have expressed some concern for the elderly. It is concerned that older people over 65 will receive lower health care. For us in the Left, it is crucial that we stick to the fact that in Denmark everyone is guaranteed easy and equal access to health care. If you are ill, it requires hospitalization, and of course you have to be hospitalized. In my municipality, for example, we have. places of relief in a rehabilitation centre to which doctors may refer if, for example, a citizen: is dehydrated on a hot summer day, confused or just need extra care and care without being so bad that hospitalization is necessary. The rehabilitation centre seems less intrusive and more domestic than a hospital, and it is a good thing for the citizen. One might ask whether the competences in the municipalities are there to ensure that admissions can be prevented to a greater extent than at present. I believe that the opportunities that exist in the municipalities are also being looked forward to, for example. the national action plan on dementia, the major action plan on older medical patients and cancer plan IV, to name but a few. In conclusion, I should like to point out that even if the prices for hospital treatment for young children and the elderly are changed by the bill here, the total amount of municipal cofinancing will not change. It remains unchanged, and the draft law provides for a redistribution of the efficiency gains for quality fund-aided hospital buildings, so that it benefits citizens throughout the country and no new cofinancing is charged when one citizen is moved from one hospital to another within the region. That makes sense, and we can warmly support it on the Left side. I would also like us to follow the area closely, as both the Socialist rapporteur and the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party have proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125101837	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125101841	We very much agree that this focus on prevention is very important, and the rapporteur refers to health care providers as important in this context. It is of course worrying that in many municipalities the preventive part is being reduced. How does the rapporteur think this bill ensures that there will be more focus on healthcare professionals in the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125101909	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125101911	I think this bill should be seen as part of a whole, because if we are to strengthen the possibilities for prevention in the municipality, this is not the only initiative. Just after New Year, there will be a report from the group that has been set up on the close and coherent health care system, and I am sure that there will also be some proposals for tools that can help to strengthen prevention and strengthen the focus of the municipalities so as to avoid, for example, the fact that there is a risk that the health services will not be able to cope with the problem. Small children are hospitalized. So I don't think you should see this bill in isolation, but you have to see it in a larger context. I also mentioned Cancer Plan IV, and I mentioned the action plan on dementia, the initiatives relating to the elderly medical patient. There is, in fact, a whole palette that needs to be in play to ensure that we get rid of the preventable hospitalizations and actually prevent the hospitalisation of young children and older people, sometimes quite unnecessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102010	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102013	Now the rapporteur mentioned that she herself is in a municipality and knows what is going on there, and I myself have been chairman of the Committee on Children's and Education for a number of years. So I actually believe, and my experience is that there is the view of the Left and the rapporteur, that by punishing financially in relation to certain age groups, i.e. by changing the economic incentive, some can do something that they have not done so far? Because I actually believe that most municipalities are aware of the importance of preventive action, including for health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102059	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102101	I'm a lot like in a lot! This KL has suggested that the focus should be precisely on the young children, i.e. the 0-2-year-olds, and the elderly over 65 years of age. So I just don't recognise that this is punishing anyone. This is creating an incentive to do something better for a vulnerable group of citizens: young children and the elderly. And then, in connection with the legislative proposal here, we should remember that there is also the possibility of a relatively large economic gain. So I'm very surprised at that approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102139	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102152	Today we are going to first process L 74, which contains two main elements. There is a change in local co-financing, which includes: This means changed, and that means increased rates for municipalities when children under 2 years of age and older people over 65 years of age are admitted to the hospital. As the second part, there is the introduction of regional redistribution as a result of the expected efficiency gains of quality fund-supported hospital buildings. First, there is the part which deals with municipal co-financing, which means increased rates for hospitalization of children under 2 years of age and older people over 65 years of age. At the same time, the rules for the repayment of over-paid co-financing will be amended. The current rules mean that the amount will be returned to the municipalities through the block grant. In future, the government wants it to be repaid regionally, and this is in order to create a closer link between the individual municipalities' features in the hospital system and then the reimbursed co-financing. In the Enhedslisten, we are sceptical about the proposed change in municipal cofinancing. We thus share the government's view that there is a flat-line problem of hospital care and municipal treatment and prevention, but for us the solution is not to increase the payment for municipalities to send their children and elderly people to the hospital. We believe that this creates an unfortunate culture of punishment that promotes cash thinking rather than providing a real incentive to strengthen prevention in the municipalities. The main problem is, of course, that the municipalities lack financial resources to carry out the whole prevention task. We find it difficult to imagine that a change in the rates of municipal cofinancing would have to be resolved. That is why we are very sceptical about this part of the proposal. The aim must instead be to strengthen cooperation between general practice, municipality and hospital. For Enhedslisten, it is crucial that the citizen gets the best professional treatment, whether it is in a hospital department or whether it is in a municipal health centre. Part of the argument behind the proposal has been that the municipalities already have contact with the group of citizens affected and therefore have the opportunity to take preventive action. There we just have to say that this is not the case. As the Elders case points out in their hearing answer, it is 47 per cent. of the elderly over 65 years of age who receive only treatment in the somatic hospital and do not have contact with the municipal care. Therefore, there is a need for a general strengthening of cooperation between general practice, municipality and hospital. This cooperation does not strengthen the present proposal, but instead lays the foundations for a model of increased payment, which also increases the penalty. At the same time, we know that the age structure is very unequal between municipalities, so the proposed change is likely to hit some municipalities much harder than others, typically the municipalities that have left young people and families. The Enhedslisten is also sceptical about the redistribution of the very hypothetical efficiency gains of the new hospitals involved in the bill. The efficiency gains are just still hypothetical. It is unclear whether any gains can be realised at all. And it's always unwise to start reaping winnings before you know if they're realisable. The government, both the present and the previous, already imposes a productivity requirement on the hospital system, which has resulted in 30 per cent delivery in the hospital system. more services compared to 15 years ago, a fact that has a major impact on both patient safety and the working environment. There is therefore a great risk that the proposal will promote additional labour pressure and hence a risk of maltreatment in hospitals that will have to rely on double efficiency requirements in the coming years. The Enhedslisten has asked the Minister a number of questions to clarify precisely the burden-sharing consequences of these changes, and we look forward to receiving answers to them. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102551	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102556	Thank you. I would just like to hear the rapporteur, because the rapporteur had many critical observations about this bill, about why the National Association of Municipalities should support this new principle that is being introduced, if it is as terrible as the rapporteur describes it as. I would just like to hear: what would be the murky ulterior motives of the municipalities supporting this if it is so horrible?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102623	Thank you. I do not think that the municipalities have any sinister ulterior motives about this, but I have to say that we have a long, unbroken series of experiences with the fact that the economic agreements concluded between the government and the municipalities involve very, very strict requirements in relation to the municipalities, which means that they are getting harder and harder to carry out both the prevention task and the care task that we impose on them. That is why I do not think that the municipalities have a nasty ulterior motive. I just think that this proposal, given that there is a financial framework to be met, has some completely unintended effects. This is also clear from the consultation answers which come precisely from the user organisations and the professional organisations affected by the savings or not savings, but changes in funding that lie in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102714	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102716	I am glad that the rapporteur has just corrected himself, because it is important to point out that this does not lead to savings. It is a question of restructuring so as to increase the incentives for prevention. Finally, however, I would just like to hear whether Enhedslisten's rapporteur does not recognise the use of economic incentives, because otherwise I find it difficult to understand, for example, such things as energy taxes, which are warmly supported by Enhedslisten, and here it is precisely about financial incentives.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102743	In fact, I also said this in my rapporteur's speech, that an economic incentive can be a strong incentive. We just have to look at the sense of the consequences that they will have. And it is clear from the hearings we have been given to this draft law that there is a great deal of concern that this will not only create incentives for better prevention, but can also create incentives for failure to admit patients or citizens where it can lead to more expensive, that is. elderly over 65 years of age and children under 2 years of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102814	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. Next is Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125102823	This bill is intended to prevent unnecessary admissions of older people and young children. The idea is that the municipalities which are even more successful in helping these groups and keeping them healthy will pay less. The background is that the municipalities are already much more in contact with older people and young children than they are with other groups. That is why it is more possible to intervene here and help the elderly and the weak in the community and to ensure that healthcare professionals get out even more quickly and help the newly baked mother. The purpose of this is to prevent these groups from being hospitalized with diseases which they could have avoided. For example: far too many older people are hospitalized with fluid deficiency and other sufferings that they could have been spared by a more targeted effort. The municipalities are already making a lot of effort, but with even more targeted efforts, it is hoped that you can be even better at keeping these groups healthy. If we can avoid some of these unnecessary admissions, it will mean a great deal, first and foremost, to patients who are spared the discomfort of being sick and hospitalized. This means better use of the money we spend in health care. In order to achieve this, local co-financing rates are changed. This means that the municipalities will in future have to pay more for hospital treatment for young children and the elderly over 65 years of age and less for the other citizens. It should be noted that the total municipal co-financing remains unchanged at the maximum of approx. 20 billion kr. So this is not an overall austerity exercise. The Liberal Alliance supports the proposal because we hope and believe that it will make a positive difference to the elderly and young children. We are, of course, aware of the concerns of the Elders and others and therefore believe that we must follow the area and take immediate action if it turns out that the change does not work as intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103034	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103041	With L 74, the government wants to give a greater financial reward to the municipalities which prevent the many repeated admissions. This is done among other things. by differentiating the current system according to age, so municipalities have to pay more for hospital treatment for small and older citizens. By differentiation by age, the government will make municipalities think more about prevention when it comes to young children, aged 0-2- and older people over 65 years. It is positive that the focus is on prevention and that it is proposed that the total amount and not the amount per region should be taken into account in the payment to the regions. hospitalization. However, we can see some problems in this proposal. We take very seriously what is stated in the consultation answers that have been received, and we agree with them. Older The fact that discrimination on the basis of age conflicts with the Danish approach to health care about free and equal access to health care and healthcare. We believe that it should never be a distinction between age and economy that determines access to and the need for health care services. Like the Medical Association, we are also concerned that the proposal may make it more difficult for some municipalities to take care of their elderly, and we wonder, like the Danish Paediatric Society, how it is felt that infant admissions should be more preventable than they are now. We believe that it is very sensible to focus on prevention in the municipalities and that more attention is also paid to it. However, it does not make sense for us to rely on an age criterion and on the number of days spent in hospital rather than on quality. We believe that quality should be the focus, and we would like to have a lot more focus on prevention in the municipalities, including health care, as has also been mentioned by rapporteurs here earlier. So instead, it should be ensured that opportunities are created for a common economy across municipalities and regions, thereby promoting the coherence of the courses and, as the Elders case also mentions, there should also be a focus on financial incentives that reward cooperation between regions, municipalities and practitioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103308	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103312	Thank you. I fully share the rapporteur's approach that we in Denmark should have free and equal access to treatment. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that the principle of this draft law is being abandoned. Would the rapporteur not like to point out where it is quite specific that we are doing away with the fact that we have free and equal access, regardless of who you are, in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103339	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103341	Well, I think I explained that in my rapporteur's speech, namely that we, like the Elders, are looking with concern at the beginning of age discrimination in relation to the access citizens have to, for example. The hospital department. We think that is worrying. I can hear that there are others who also think that this is worrying. There are some who say that it should be monitored, and there are such different approaches to it. But we think that it is worrying that we are starting to get to age.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103414	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103415	Well, the rapporteur mentioned that this was a fight with free and equal access. Would the rapporteur not point out where that is? Where is it made clear in the draft law that some people should not now have the same right of hospitalisation as they have had before? On the contrary, I think it has been made very clear that if you are ill, you must go to the hospital if you need it. So I don't understand why it's a fight with free and equal access. The rapporteur can therefore give a specific answer to that. Where is it in the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103445	Now it is Mrs Jane Heitmann's interpretation that I said it was a showdown. I used the word that there should not be a distinction between age and age, and I said that this is contrary to our Danish approach. It wasn't a showdown. I think it is somewhat more far-reaching if something is a showdown. However, in our consciousness, in my consciousness, it is contrary to a Danish approach to health care that we are beginning to differ from age in terms of access to health care. That is also what I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103521	Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103523	Thank you. I would just like to hear the rapporteur of the alternative, if we are also in favour of abolishing the age gap in relation to the HPV vaccine, the influenza vaccine and mammography screening. There are a lot of places in our health care where we just have a look for age. So I just want to know whether the alternative, when it is evident that the principle is so high that there must never be discrimination on the basis of age, also thinks that we should abolish the age limit for all the things I just listed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103602	Of course, if it has a medical relevance to differ in age, it is relevant. On the other hand, I would like to ask the rapporteur to explain how it is relevant in terms of health care that there is a difference between age here and age. I have understood the proposal as being part of a model of economic incentive, more than that it is a medical distinction to some age groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103628	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103629	The rapporteur can ask me that when I come to the floor. I could hear that the age criterion for these things would not be rejected, but then I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not recognise that there are some interventions that are easier to prevent than others and that is why you want to create a different incentive structure. Because today it makes no sense to give incentives, depending on the age of the person concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103657-2	I am very pleased with this question, because it is mentioned just now that it does not make sense, in the case of infants, to talk about prevention in the same way as it may be in other contexts. So I don't understand exactly what it's gonna be like in relation to it. I believe that, in some cases, age is different, while in others it is not appropriate, for example. When you make agreements, because you have a certain amount, so it can only be within a certain age group. Then it is precisely because you do not have the money to expand the age group, and I think it is really a pity that it is in this way the economy that has to decide whether to go to the hospital or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103749	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125103758	Thank you, President. We need to be better at putting in early rather than waiting until things have gone wrong. We know. And yet it happens so rarely because there is cash thinking in it. With this bill, the government will give the municipalities reason to make more early efforts to avoid people becoming so ill that they have to be admitted. The government will increase the co-payment of the municipalities for children under 2 years of age and older people over 65 years of age. We would like to support this as a starting point, because it makes sense that the municipalities also have financial reasons to invest in more prevention or, at least, do not speculate in sending the bill to the region. But basically, I would like us to put an end to the silos and the cash-in-the-box thinking, because I can be concerned that this proposal will do better everywhere, or that we will simply take money from some of the municipalities which are already under pressure and which will end up doing even less good for the children and the elderly. I don't believe this is just about wondering who's paying. It is also about management, about organisation, about culture and about the fact that there is enough time at all to take early action. That is why we in the Radical Left hope that we can start thinking about quality in a new way: less governance and more governance. We must get rid of cash thinking and instead create meaning, joy in life and joy in work, because it is skilled employees who, together with the families of children and the elderly, can make the effort that makes sense. After all, we are taking the first step with this year's rate pool, where we are trying to break down silos by creating a cross-social and health investment programme to make it possible to make an early effort for children before they get diagnoses and medicines, and a series of programme programmes to ensure the link between children's and young people's psychiatry and PPR. I would like us to think about the whole area in this way, because there needs to be a start-up investment and good management in order for us to be better at putting in place early.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125104026	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125104037	Thank you. How do you get people to eat more oatmeal? Yes, the safe method is to make sure that people can afford nothing but oatmeal. Economic incentives work for those who are pressured on the economy and therefore forced to adapt to the cash flow, but this is not necessarily wise. A law on local co-financing of regional hospital costs was adopted at the time. The criticism was then that the municipalities were paying for something that they did not have any influence on. This is now partly admitted by the new proposal. The incentive system then discovers inappropriateities, such as the link between the activity pool and co-financing being inappropriate. Now it must be decoupled and a ceiling must be created. If co-financing exceeds the ceiling, the money will be passed to the state, which will then pay back according to a key. But what if, in some situations, it is appropriate to increase activity, even if cofinancing would then exceed the ceiling? Then the region gets stuck, or we are encouraged to keep activity just below the ceiling for the sake of funding and not for the sake of need. The municipalities also know the ceiling, and when it is reached it will mean that hospitalization will be partly free of charge. In the SF we are fully in line with the Elders Case, the Medical Association, Younger Doctors, FOA and the Health Cartel, which claims that this proposal is age-discriminatory and that it is highly worrying. Age differentiation of co-financing only makes sense insofar as it is believed that municipalities are actually able to prevent admissions, but it is by no means all elderly people with whom municipal care is in contact. And age differentiation only makes sense insofar as it is believed that municipalities actually have the resources to do more prevention than they actually do, both in the area of infants and in the area of the elderly. It has not been detected, but only assumed. If you look at how much the two extreme groups weigh in the overall pattern of hospitalization, you will see that it can have negative consequences for the municipalities if they cannot actually reduce the number of admissions. However, has a comprehensive study been carried out on the possibilities of prevention and the possibility of maintaining the level of function, including socio-geographic conditions? Do we have to resort again to a new patching-up when it turns out that this incentive structure also leads to unprecedented and unintended behaviour? It is, of course, a question of whether such a complex system as the coherent healthcare system can be managed according to such relatively primitive economic incentive tools. The SF cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it stands. The Minister should at least take age-discriminatory elements out of the proposal. In addition, we believe that the proposal increases bureaucracy in the health sector. There is no need for any more bureaucratic management tools, but there is a need for us to channel health resources specifically to the performing joints for the benefit of improved efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125104351	Thank you. Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125104354	Thank you. The rapporteur talks about age differentiation and prevention incentives. I would just like to ask the rapporteur, in peace, whether the rapporteur recognises that there is a difference between Jane Heitmann riding his bike, falling and breaking both arms, and 100-year-old Mrs Jensen, with whom home care is in daily contact, in relation to the possibility for municipalities to prevent long-term hospitalization, which two broken arms can also provide. Does the rapporteur recognise that there is a difference between the possibilities for municipalities to prevent hospitalisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125104437	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125104438	In the case that the municipality is actually in contact with the 100-year-old, yes, the municipality has the opportunity to prevent certain sufferings. Whether the municipality also has a chance to prevent a fall, I am in fact in doubt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125104457	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125104508	Thank you. After all, the former rapporteurs have examined in such a fairly detailed way the elements of this draft law, so I am going to free you from doing so again. I would actually say that for us Conservatives this is very much common sense. There are some groups that are easier to prevent admissions to than other groups, and if you want to operate with financial incentives in this, which I think there is every reason to do, then they should be targeted where the municipalities actually have the opportunity to make a difference. Then questions will be asked as to whether this is a dispute with free and equal access to our healthcare system. I just want to ask the rapporteurs who have said this: what are you really thinking? Do you really imagine that the individual social and health assistant who is standing at the nursing home says to old Mrs Hansen, who needs to be admitted: Sorry, Mrs Hansen, the Danish Parliament has just first dealt with a bill that makes us change the municipal cofinancing, and that unfortunately means that I cannot send you to the hospital today; it was a pity, Mrs Hansen, but that is how it will be. That's not gonna happen! I refuse to believe that there is a single social and health assistant who will stand and change his decision in relation to an elderly person when this law comes into being. What will happen, on the other hand, is that the municipal director becomes aware of this law, that the municipal director becomes aware that it may make sense to increase the efforts being made in the field of prevention, the new emergency centres, which we have concluded an agreement that there should now be in all regions where prevention of hospitalization should be possible. This isn't gonna affect the individual social and health assistant, this is gonna affect the municipal director, who's gonna be forced to allocate funds to this area. That is why we are not concerned by the conservative side. On the other hand, we are very, very happy that at the same time we are getting rid of this rather silly rule, which has been that if you are transferred to a new hospital within the same region, there will be an extra taxing. It's been crazy. So in those words, we in the Conservative People's Party support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125104723	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's the Minister of Health and the Elders. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125104739	Thank you for the comments on the draft law and also for the overwhelming support for the draft law. For a long time I have come across the municipal co-financing, both when I was on the town council and here in the Danish Parliament as a health rapporteur and now as a health minister. I have thus also had the opportunity to see the scheme from a number of different angles. Yet there is still only one angle that matters to me, and that is the citizen's. It was also with the focus on the citizen that the municipal co-financing was introduced back in 2007. The aim was to give municipalities a higher incentive to deliver timely and good preventive action for the benefit of their citizens. Citizens had to be treated in the near health care sector, and we would thus also ensure that we could avoid unnecessary hospitalizations. However, in 2015 we found that in Denmark we have approx. 65,000 preventable admissions, 79,000 re-hospitals and 171,000 acute medical admissions. There are a great many hospitalizations, for example. older citizens with bladder inflammation, wounds, fluid deficiency, etc., and quite simply, there is a potential for municipalities to prevent much more targeted use. With the demographic challenge and more older people, I can only fear that we will see more admissions and re-hospitals if it is that we do not intervene and strengthen the preventive action • admissions, which we will simply be able to prevent for the benefit of the citizen and society. This is where local cofinancing comes in. Because we have an arrangement today which is good but which does not work as intended. From my point of view, the existing municipal cofinancing is simply too general. For example, it goes without saying that a municipality cannot prevent if I go and break my leg on my run, but a municipality can act actively against the dehydrated 80-year-old elderly in their own home, with whom they have daily contact in home care. That is why, with the bill, we in the government want to change the scheme by giving the municipalities a greater financial gain if they make preventive efforts and early detection. The scheme must be aimed at the elderly and young children, with whom municipalities are already in contact and watching daily through home care and healthcare, and where their efforts have a direct effect on the citizen. The change will help municipalities to ensure that home care is more effective, for example. extra supervision of inflamed wounds on Mrs Jensen in 90 years of age, and ensure that the health care provider makes early contact with mother and child after birth, for example. to show effective breast-feeding techniques. The change in municipal co-financing is not, of course, the only measure that the government has taken or intends to introduce for the benefit of the patient and the close and coherent health care system. This is a step out of several. Just this year we have come up with an action plan for the elderly medical patient, an emergency package against overcrowding and the presentation of a national dementia action plan. Finally, we have also set up a committee for the close and coherent health care with the municipalities and regions, which will report back here in the new year. Then I can also listen to the fact that the proposal, with a differentiation of local cofinancing, has not gone quite quietly and has been criticised, among others, by some. It seems that some people have been told that financial incentives can control the need for hospitalization of older people and even hollow out the municipal fund. That is why I would first like to state quite clearly today that the draft law does not in any way violate the principle of easy and equal access to our health care. It does not alter the individual doctor's incentive to admit citizens, and frankly, no doctor looks at the citizen's baptism certificate to determine the citizen's access to our common healthcare system. To claim the opposite seems to me simply nonsense. If the need for hospitalization is there, it goes without saying that a citizen must of course be admitted. With the bill, we do not remove any money from the municipalities' finances. The municipalities are being compensated, as they are today, for the 20 billion already. kr., which the co-financing represents, but the costs between the municipalities are changed. The municipalities which have more costs, because they may have more elderly people and more young children in their municipality, are largely compensated by the compensation system. The differentiation is essential if we are to hopefully see a reduction in the number of preventable admissions, and I believe that the change benefits both the citizen, who avoids unnecessary hospitalization, the municipality, who gets a greater gain by delivering the core task well, efficiently and in time, and finally society, because overall it means better use of our tax dollars and therefore also more health for the money. It is important to me that the municipalities themselves have also wanted this change. That is the change that we are now making, so we are almost tempted to put the first question from here to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, because if what the rapporteur had described as being in his rapporteur's speech is really correct, why on earth is it that the municipalities themselves wanted this change? On the contrary, they in the municipalities have asked for a scheme which allows them to influence the hospitalization of the citizens with whom they are in daily contact, which is not a scheme like today, where everything is covered equally thinly everywhere, because it goes without saying that a municipality cannot and should not prevent people from getting pregnant and who therefore need to go to the hospital when they are going to give birth. Nor can they prevent me from falling when I'm out running in the woods. But they can prevent the places where they are already in contact with citizens and where they can make a difference. Secondly, I would like to emphasise that the changes will only apply from 2018. It is, of course, for the municipalities also to be given the opportunity to prepare for these changes. We think that's fair. Then the differentiation is not the only one that appears in the draft law. We also implement a number of technical changes to the municipal co-financing as early as 2017. The aim is to resolve some of the shortcomings of current municipal co-financing. This concerns, among other things, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. the behavioural challenges of the regions, as well as other adjustments relating to the inventory and reimbursement of local co-financing. Finally, the draft law here calls for a more balanced distribution between regions of efficiency gains from quality fund-supported hospital buildings. It makes good sense to redistribute the benefits between the regions, so that citizens throughout Denmark benefit from the more efficient operation that we will thus have with the new hospitals. The redistribution of efficiency gains has already been agreed with Danske Regions as a result of the 2017 Economic Agreement. I hope, of course, that the draft law will receive a good reading of the committee and, of course, I will answer all the questions that the committee might have on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125105519	Thank you. There are a few questions. It is only from Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125105526	Thank you for the Minister's intention to do better. I can only hope that it will be as KL and the Minister expect it to be. But the Minister is also aware of his reservations about this, precisely because you can see what it is, what I want to ask the Minister is first and foremost why it is from 65 years of age when the Minister himself talks about the 80-year-olds with whom you have the most contact in home care. There are not many 65-year-olds who are in home care and, as the Elders Case also says, it is 15.5%. of the 65-year-olds who are part of both our health care and home care. So how does the minister think that the municipalities here can prevent inflammation of the bladder and other things so that they are not hospitalized?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125105619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125105621	Age is the best possible criterion at this time. First of all, age is objective... none of us can run from what is on the baptism certificate... and at the same time it makes the scheme transparent for the municipalities. In addition, the age criterion captures the preventable admissions and re-hospitals, as we can see in the statistics on where the most citizens are re-incorporated in the hospital. It is therefore also the best, one might say, proxy, for hospital admissions. You could also imagine other ways of differentiating. I'd be worried if we, for example. said we did it on the basis of diagnoses. Then I think it would be difficult to identify what kind of diagnoses the municipalities can actually influence and which they cannot influence. That is why we have chosen the age criterion together with the National Association of Municipalities, which has also wanted it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125105719	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125105721	I am thinking that it might have just been better to cut the retirement age. After all, the retirement age is something that will be moved up to 68 years over the next few years, and I know that the Prime Minister and the Minister's own party would like to lift it even more. So it's people who go to work we're talking about. And there's a big difference between whether you're in home care or you're still in work. That's what I think is a little weird. But then I would like to ask the Minister: will the Minister look at how to inform the municipality without violating the personal data law and violating the rights there?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125105801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125105802	If you were to allow the age differentiation to follow the retirement age, you could say, with a glimpse in your eye, that I hope we will see you in the Parliamentary Chamber again a little later in 2017. We have chosen an age differentiation because, as I said, this is the best way to create a transparent system for municipalities as well. Then it is clear that there are some places where municipalities see older citizens to a greater extent, and I do not necessarily think you are older either, because you are 65 years old. It is typically very logical that the higher you are in age, the greater the possibility that you are in contact with, for example, home care. And that is where the municipalities also have the opportunity to make a difference, catching the citizens who are at risk of being admitted because they are dehydrated, for example, or because a bladder infection is allowed to develop and hospitalisation is needed. These are the things we need to be much better at in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125105908	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125105912	I would like to know whether the Minister for Health does not agree that the financial incentive contained in this proposal is for the municipalities to ensure that there are as few admission days as possible for children under 2 years of age and for the elderly over 65 years of age. Because it's like what's in it, at least if you're thinking of increasing the incentive for prevention for this group. It is there that there is an economic interest, in other words, in ensuring that there are as few admission days for them as possible. You can do that in two ways. This can be done by ensuring better prevention, but there may well be a risk in municipalities that are financially under pressure that citizens are taken home without having had the necessary care. Well, I can only point out that a study has been carried out in the Danish Nursing Council, where eight out of ten nurses point out that they believe that the municipalities will have patients home before they are completed. And we would also see this development strengthened by this proposal, in other words that it is not precisely the municipalities we are strengthening, but the citizens that we are paying the price because we do not ensure that they get the best professional treatment offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110023	First of all, over a long period of time, there has been a major development in our health services, which means that the municipalities have a much greater share of health responsibilities than they did in the past. And yes, when you're discharged from the hospital, it's not like you're healthy and don't need any more follow-up efforts. When you are discharged from the hospital, there may in many cases be a need for the municipalities to follow up afterwards. I hope that will come as no surprise to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. This is, after all, about giving the municipalities a greater incentive to take early preventive action and giving the municipalities the incentive where they can make a difference. It goes without saying that the municipality cannot make the big difference as to whether the rapporteur himself breaks his leg on the way out of the Parliament hall or not, but the municipality may, on the other hand, have an influence on the fact that the elderly person in his own home does not get dehydrated because they do not get enough fluids on a daily basis. That is why the municipalities themselves have also wanted local cofinancing, in which the municipalities are rewarded for taking preventive action where they have the opportunity to take action. On the other hand, this bill does not change a fool's note about the individual doctor's incentive to admit the citizen, whether you are a child or you are old.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110152	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110154	But now it is just the case that there are a large number of citizens with contact with the somatic hospital, with whom the municipalities have no contact at all. And with regard to that group of citizens, the municipalities do not have the opportunity to take action with additional prevention, at least not more in relation to that group than they have with me. That's why there's just something I have to belong to. If the municipalities have been able to have this opportunity, it is probably because this is an area in which, at least for a group of citizens, there is an opportunity to do something. But that only puts the municipalities that have a different age distribution in an even more difficult situation. After all, it is municipalities that are already under heavy pressure because of demography, and these municipalities are being hit even harder by this. And that means that we run the risk that some citizens will receive worse treatment than they might expect.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110247	It is true that we are changing the cost in the different municipalities. The municipalities with more children or more elderly people will receive higher co-financing costs, but they will also receive more money through the compensation system, which means that they will also be compensated for their additional costs. Then, on the other hand, it happens to the municipalities that if they make arrangements with the early efforts of the health care provider, through home care they get a good financial gain, i.e. by making good and effective prevention efforts in the municipalities. You will not get that prize if you choose to sit back and say: we do not want to lift the preventive action in our municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110334	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110341	It is fair to note that older people are more often hospitalized, but whose age is not meant to determine our free and equal access to health care, why discriminate against the price that municipalities have to pay for the elderly patient?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110400	So, I have to say that I am surprised that this proposal is being criticised at all for having to stigmatise the elderly, and I also very much disagree with that premise. We want to take care of the elderly by means of this bill. We want the municipalities to pay more attention to the elderly than they do today. We want the SOSU assistant to keep an extra eye on emerging inflammation if the elderly has a wound, that home care is extra aware of Mrs Jensen, who often has bladder inflammation. It is all efforts that benefit the elderly, and it is here that we can do something about the many preventable admissions and re-hospitals that we have in our hospital system. And so age differentiation also benefits the elderly. We focus on proactive prevention efforts in the municipalities, so that we can make sure that the citizen is a revolving door patient between the municipality and the hospital.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110511	But is the Minister for Health absolutely sure that the social and health assistant is not encouraged to consider also how to look at the time and try other measures only because it becomes more expensive, although rapid action and rapid treatment would have been preferable?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110524	I would like to repeat that this draft law does not change a joke about the individual doctor's incentive to admit the individual citizen. And I just think it's absurd if you think or imagine that the doctors are starting to say: I want to see your health insurance card before I decide if I want to put you in, because I'm gonna see how old you are. No doctors think that way, and this bill isn't gonna happen either. And that is why if you as a citizen need hospitalization, whether you are 2 years old, 12 years old, 24 years old, 64 years old or 84 years old, you must of course be admitted to hospital.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110606	Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110610	The Minister has several times mentioned some examples of what can be done in the municipalities, for example. in home care, and mention something with the treatment of wounds and other suggestions. I would just like to know whether the Minister thinks that it is not done in advance, for example. at home care. Is it new that you have to do these things in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110633	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110636	It's nothing new. We just need more municipalities to do the best we can. It is no secret that there is also a significant difference in quality in the municipalities in relation to the health performance they provide, and this is also evident when it is diving down and looking at what it is for an effort that is being delivered in each municipality. We will have to deal later here today with the government's bill on finalisation tariffs, and this is a very good example of some municipalities which, it must be said, do not quite get the job and responsibility that other municipalities can well manage to lift. So it's not a new task, but it's about more people doing as the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110714	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110718	Now it was just because several examples were mentioned where it sounded to me as if it is something you are doing already in the municipalities, and there is, of course, a difference. That is also why this can affect some municipalities, which then do not have the economy to care for the elderly as much as other municipalities want. But I am aware that it is also the National Association of Municipalities that has helped to do so and, as the Minister himself points out, there will be a very large difference between the municipality and the municipality. But is it not the impression given by the Minister that the municipalities are already working on some of the proposals made by the Minister, including prevention in relation to this group of elderly people?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110801	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110804	The other day I attended a conference on safe hands, which I hope most people know, at the Danish Society for Patient Safety, and one thing that it was banned to say on the part of the participating municipalities was: This is not happening with us. After all, it highlights the importance of constantly ensuring the best action in the field of health. Because yes, as many of the examples I have mentioned today show, that is, of course, what is already being done in the municipalities today. But is this being done to an adequate extent? No. And can you do better? Yeah. Instead of just saying that everything is perfect in the municipalities and that it cannot be better, I think everyone agrees that we can of course have the preventive action lifted in the municipalities, and that is what the National Association of Municipalities also wants to do, and the municipalities would like to do so by giving them an economic incentive to take preventive action where a real-world difference can be made. Then I have to correct the rapporteur when it is said here that it affects the municipalities. I have repeated several times now that the municipalities are being compensated by the compensation system, to the extent that, for example, there are more elderly people or more young children and as a consequence, higher costs are being paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110920	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110943	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125110949	Thank you. When you talk about health care and you hear concepts such as overcrowding, you hear that patients and citizens cannot come home from the hospital when they are actually finished, it is very negative, it sounds negative. That's why it's a risk? Yes, it is because you are actually in very great danger when you are in hospital. Just think of the many examples we hear about with serious infections you get. The aim of the bill here is that patients and citizens should not be subjected to this, that the number of patients who must remain in hospital should be reduced because the municipalities are not ready to take them home. Therefore, the aim is to strengthen the incentives of the municipalities to take back the finished patients. As I say, this will benefit both patients and citizens, but it will also benefit our overall health care, because we will clearly make better use of health care resources. The ratio today is that the municipalities have to pay 2,000 DKK. Every single day, they have a citizen in the hospital where the patient is registered to come home. Is that an incentive as good as that? No, it is obviously not, because too many patients still have to stay in hospitals and, as I say, it also leads to another negative thing, and that is that there are many times not enough beds in hospitals and thus you get overcrowdings. The draft law provides for an increase in the incentive of the municipalities, the fact that they have to pay. The first 2 days will be raised from 2,000 kroner. to DKK 4,000, and when you reach the third day and the days after that, it is actually DKK 6,000. per day to be paid. The Social Democratic Party has the clear objective that all 98 municipalities in Denmark must be able to ensure both the necessary capacity and the right, high level of professional help so that citizens can return home, either to their own home or to a municipal institution, regardless of when they are reported completed in the hospital. This isn't just an ideal. This is actually a very clear expectation that we have in the Social Democratic Party. We also have a very clear expectation that, for what we are so frequently talking about, which is the transition from hospital to municipality, the sector transitions, we will have a much better coordination, a much more flexible approach, a much greater guarantee that the professional and necessary information will drift from the hospital to the municipalities. The Social Democrats are listening to the answers to the hearings and also the concerns that this arrangement and this change might mean additional bureaucracy. I don't want it to be like that. That is why I think that we should also include in the legislative proposal an awareness that the system must be flexible, and we must also incorporate into the law whether the law will work as intended. That is why the Social Democrats want the Minister to take a stand after one year or one and a half and inform us in the Health Committee of how things are going. After all, the law is supposed to come into force here from the beginning of 2018. It is also the Social Democrats' wish that we should make an evaluation of this change. We need to find out whether it has the desired effect or not. The bill envisages that the money that may come in in the future because of the higher rates for patients who have completed treatment should be distributed to the municipalities in each region according to the size of the municipality. It is the case in the draft law that the region should continue to receive the tariff they are currently receiving of about DKr 2 000. per day. The bill also mentions that, if the law does not have the desired effect of reducing the number of patients who have completed treatment, the Minister has the possibility of introducing a pool model. We in the Social Democratic Party take great note of the fact that the municipalities are very critical of this, because it will actually mean that there will be less money for the service framework for the municipalities. We in the Socialist Group are very concerned about this, and that is why we are going to work towards the third reading to ensure that the Minister for Health is obliged to inform the Committee on Health if the Minister has to take such considerations into account. If the Minister and the Government can meet the demands I have outlined by the Social Democratic Party, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125111457	Thank you. There's a comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125111509	Thank you. I just need to hear about something from the Socialist rapporteur when we are now building this system of financial incentives. Over the last few years, we have seen that the number of days lying within the hospital system is falling sharply. Well, that's one thing. also meant that many nurses in the municipal home care state that they experience that patients come home prematurely, i.e. patients who have not finished their treatment. Is it not a matter of concern to the Socialist rapporteur that this whole system of financial incentives can be used precisely to promote cash-flow thinking, where regions may speculate on getting patients out as quickly as possible and municipalities may have to take home patients for whom they really do not have a treatment offer? Because, as the rapporteur himself points out, the focus must be on patients being given the right professional treatment, not on financial incentives, which then determine whether the patient should be in a hospital or in municipal home care.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125111607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125111610	Thank you for the question. I have just made it clear in my rapporteur's speech that it is our clear expectation that the municipalities will build up the right capacity and not just a professionalism, but a professionalism that is right and it must also be high. It is clear that there is a game going on here, because we have 98 municipalities, and there is a very large variation in what the municipalities can and will do, how they have invested, and how they strengthen their professionalism or even even turn it down. We in the Social Democratic Party are perfectly clear there, and that is why I say that it is not an ideal but a clear expectation that the municipalities should be able to do so here. It must be the case that the staff employed in the municipalities are confident that the patients, the citizens, will come home, and they will be if they have the right professional skills and if the standards and capacity are the right one, and they must be. We will not eat any citizens in Denmark in any municipality with a quality that does not live up to what is our very clear expectation. That is why we must also ensure that the economy and framework are robust and correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125111721	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125111725	But it is just the case that today we can already see that this is a problem. Fortunately, it is true that the number of lay-days for finished patients is declining and that health agreements have, fortunately, produced good work between municipalities and regions. However, I think it is worrying that, when we see that this is already a problem today, we are creating incentives that can help to increase the problem of patients returning home more quickly from hospitals without professional staff assessing that there is a qualified offer for them. In the end, I would just like to acknowledge that the Social Democratic Party has a great deal of attention to the pressure that might arise on the liquidity of the municipalities if this pool scheme is implemented. We'll share that attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125111803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125111807	Thank you. What is our clear view is that no citizen should be admitted to the hospital for one hour more than necessary, because that is not good for the citizens. It's not that we want to save money. That is because we want to increase quality. We want to look after the citizens, we want to increase patient safety. Therefore, the great challenge is not in the hospitals, as I see it. The great challenge may be that an economic cash-flowing thinking is sneaking in. This must not be done, and that is why I am calling for us to evaluate that we should have a status on this, and the Minister must support this, in order to say that we in the Socialist Group support this bill. But what Enhedslisten's rapporteur also has to say to himself is that we have an incentive structure today. per 24 hours. It can therefore be said that it must also be in the interests of Enhedslisten that there are no patients who lie in the hospital unnecessarily long. So we're gonna have to try it out. We'll see if this works.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125111904	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125111912	If there is something we fight for in the Danish People's Party, then it is to ensure that older citizens receive the best treatment in our healthcare system. Unfortunately, all too often we hear that there are patients on the corridors, especially elderly medical patients receiving unworthy treatment, and that there is too little staff. Something needs to be done about this, and we have raised it several times with ministers in office. In the last year, together with the current Minister for Health, we have also taken initiatives in relation to the medical patient. This is an emergency package, so we are preventing overcrowding. Some of these things have started and are in progress, and I hope that we will soon be able to see the impact of this. Unfortunately, we have also been able to see so often that patients who have finished treatment do not come home because the municipalities are not ready for this. Sometimes people suspect that they do not have enough nursing homes, and then it is cheaper to leave the citizen in the hospital instead of building the homes that are needed. The last time, such a geographical overview of which municipalities have most completed, it appeared that they are actually some of the rich municipalities and also one such as the City of Copenhagen. You have money for many other fun things, but it could be that you should give priority to housing and relief places for the elderly. That is why we support this initiative, which raises the price of finished patients. However, I would like to stress that for the Danish People's Party, it is about not sending a patient too quickly home; one must be ready for printing. Not everyone has finished their treatment when doctors believe that you can now come home. It has to be taken care of at home in the municipality, because much of the treatment is done at home. So with this law, we also have to make sure that the citizen is ready for discharge. Today there are between 35,000 and 40,000 somatic final days a year, which means that there is a citizen who is actually ready to go home, but that the municipality does not take the citizen home. Today it costs the municipality DKK 1,976. per day, and this is now doubled for the first 2 days and tripled from day 3 to day 5. The increased payment will not be granted to the region, but will be returned to the municipalities of the region by other means. It's a really good arrangement when you do it this way, because it doesn't matter what benefits the municipality. I hope that the municipalities will take this into account, i.e. that they will set up the homes that are needed, that they will set up the emergency rooms that we have defined from here what should contain, and that they will ensure that there are enough staff to be able to take care of the elderly citizens who are just waiting to come home either with themselves or in a living room where we know there are staff to take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125112231	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125112236	Today we first deal with L 75, the law amending the Health Act, which deals with the adjustment of tariffs for Somatic Finishing Days. If you are seriously ill, you have to be in a hospital, and when you are finished and well, you have to go home. It sounds perfectly right and logical to say so, but unfortunately the reality is often different. All too often, we have heard of patients who are in the hospital and are waiting to come home. It is a pity for the patient, for who would rather not be home in the safe environment, and it is a pity for the hospital, because a completed patient takes up a bed that a seriously ill person could have enjoyed. And here begins the evil overcrowding circle, where patients are in public view on cold hospital walkways, and we take this issue seriously, yes, we actually take it very seriously in the Left. Over the last five years, the number of somatic finishing days has remained stable at around 40,000, and the goal is that we should do better. One place in the hallway is simply unworthy, and in the Left we have long had a look at the challenges that it presents to older medical patients. For this very reason, together with the other parties in the blue bloc, we have also taken the initiative for an action plan for the elderly medical patient, and here are four areas of action. One of the focus points is precisely a reduction in the number of completed days in the hospital, and if we are to achieve that ambition, there are more buttons that can be turned on. One of them is the final treatment tariff, which the municipalities pay to the region for having a completed patient lying in a hospital. In other words, we can increase the financial incentive for the municipality to take the finished patients either home if they are ready for it, or for example. to a relief place if the citizen is too healthy to be in the hospital and too bad to be at home. Today the municipality pays DKK 1,976. per day to the region. On top of that rate, the municipalities will in future have to pay a state final processing tariff of 1,976 for day 1 and day 2 and DKK 3,952. from day 3 to day 5. I have noted that both the Elders Case and the Medical Association point to the cooperation between the region and the municipality as a determining factor in reducing the number of days completed. On the left side, we share the point of departure that enhanced and improved cooperation between the region and the municipality is crucial, and I have a clear expectation that the action plan for the elderly medical patient will contribute positively to coordination, so that a changed economic incentive structure will not be left alone. On the whole, we need to strengthen cooperation in the field of health care, and here the general practitioners play a significant role, but we will be working much more on this when the Committee on Medical Protection and the Committee on close and coherent health care come up with their reports only in the new year. On the left side, we can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125112540	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125112549	Thank you. The objective of L 75 is to strengthen the incentive for municipalities to take somatically completed citizens from the hospital. This is done by increasing municipal final processing charges. In addition to paying to the region, the municipalities must also pay to a state pool, which then distributes the funds again within the region, i.e. a form of double sanction. In the Enhedslisten we fully agree with the overall intention, that is, that finished patients should not take up space in the hospitals. It is absolutely essential to ensure a high level of professionalism that patients are located where they receive the best professional treatment, whether in a health centre or in a hospital. It is therefore also gratifying that the number of completed patients in the hospitals is now decreasing. However, there are a number of problems with the approach to the draft law which we consider to be questionable and which make it impossible for us to support the draft law immediately. We find it worrying that the focus is on the possibility of imposing financial penalties on municipalities. There is no doubt that this is a strong incentive, but, on the other hand, it may have the risk built into that municipalities merely for financial reasons take care of patients whom, from a professional point of view, they cannot offer qualified care. The greater the punishment, the greater the risk. It is already a well-known problem. According to a study from the Danish Nursing Council from 2015, eight out of ten municipal nurses have experienced within the last month that the citizens have not finished when they are discharged from the hospital to their own home or nursing home. It is merely confirmation that there is a serious cross-border problem between regions and municipalities, which we believe must be resolved through local cooperation and in the health agreements, not through economic sanctions. Similarly, we are concerned that the pool scheme puts even more pressure on the liquidity of the municipalities. The economy of the municipalities is already under heavy pressure, and an additional penal measure can push the economically oppressed municipalities further. It will have exactly the opposite effect of the intention of the draft law, namely that we run the risk of getting a worse offer to the citizen who is being taken away from the hospital. Rather than financial punishment, we would much rather see initiatives supporting coherent health care initiatives strengthening cooperation between general practice and hospital and municipality, strengthening the economy of both regions and municipalities so that they can establish a coherent process with the patient at the centre. With the proposed pool scheme, we are also increasing the risk of increased bureaucracy. It will be another pool in which the municipalities can seek funding, and we fear that it will promote the cash-flow thinking between municipalities and regions even more. Basically, we believe that this is the wrong way to go. We recognise the issue of completed patients should not lie in hospitals, but with the one-sided focus on target management and financial sanctions, we are concerned that it will be economic considerations on an excelark that will be the primary, not the medical assessment where patient safety and the working environment will be put in the top priority. That is why the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal, but we will ask a number of questions about it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125112912	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125112918	I just have a brief question... a clarification. I am not sure that I understood the rapporteur's speech quite correctly. After all, a state pool is not provided as part of the legislative proposal, and I should just be sure that the rapporteur agrees with me on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125112935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125112938	I fully agree with that. But that does not change the fact that it is part of the legislative proposal and that it is part of the legislative proposal that can be put into practice. This is just the part for which we express a strong concern, because it is precisely possible to risk what the National Association of Municipalities also expresses in their response to the hearings, on the one hand, and an increase in bureaucracy, on the other hand, and the fact that the liquidity of the municipalities can come under increased pressure. And that is why we are going to look at it with great scepticism, and I could hear that this is a concern which, fortunately, the Social Democrats also share.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125113006	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125113009	Thank you to the rapporteur for clarifying that the pool is an option only if the municipalities do not take their patients home and that is not what to say, in that way as part of the legislative proposal. That is just what I should have clarified. So thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125113022	Thank you to the rapporteur. This brings us to the next rapporteur, Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125113029	Thank you. Unfortunately, all too often we see that patients who are ready for discharge from the hospital are still not being discharged and may even have to lie in a bed in the hallway. In total, patients with somatic diseases spend between 35,000 and 40,000 more days in the hospital than they should. It is not dignified, and it is associated with great discomfort. Therefore, the incentive for the municipalities to take back the patients who are ready for it is increased. The incentive is increased by increasing the so-called final processing tariff. In addition, with the national plan of action for the elderly medical patient, we have set aside 1.2 billion. kr. to concrete and targeted action in this area. It has been shown that some regions are very good at avoiding patients on the hallways, and it has also been shown that some municipalities are very good at getting patients home when they are ready for discharge. I very much hope that the knowledge of the municipalities and the regions can be spread to other regions and municipalities so that in future we will not see patients on the corridors. In addition to this, the proposal aims to create better cooperation between regions and municipalities to the benefit of patients. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125113202	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125113207	With L 75, the government wants to reduce overcrowding in the country's hospitals so that no one should as far as possible lie in the corridors. Therefore, with this proposal, the government will strengthen the local authorities' incentive to take back citizens who have somatically completed earlier from the hospital. Of course, we fully agree that it is unworthy to lie on the corridors, and we also fully agree that solutions to the congestion problems must be found. We just don't agree with the method yet again. There is a need for a solution across sectors, a solution to cooperation between municipalities and regions, and here we do not believe that financial incentives in the form of some kind of punishment for municipalities will solve the problems. Unfortunately, we don't think it is that easy. In addition, we believe that the pool mentioned in the draft law, which is described as a sort of re-priority from municipality to state and back again, seems somewhat unclear and very bureaucratic. In short, we cannot immediately support the bill as we do not believe that such economic incentive models can solve the challenges. Instead, in the alternative, we want long-lasting solutions that promote cooperation between the sectors. But we will ask a number of questions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125113351	Thank you to the rapporteur. This brings us to the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125113357	Thank you. When you get sick, you need good care, whether high or low, rich or poor. This is one of the most important things in our welfare societies. And in order for us to have a strong health care system, we need to use the money wisely. One of the places we can get better is in relation to the finished patients who can't go home. There are between 35,000 and 40,000 final treatment days a year, when a completed patient takes up a bedroom in a hospital. The purpose of this law is to give the municipalities a heavier economic reason to take back the citizens who have finished their work. The final processing tariff for the municipalities will in future be just under DKK 4,000. for day one and two and barely DKK 6,000. from the third day onwards. This represents a doubling for days one and two and a triple from day three onwards. So this is something that can be felt. In the Radical Left we support the draft law as a starting point, although I have the same concern here as I had for L 74 that we have just considered. Too basic, I am concerned about the financial management and cash-flow management that is in the area of health. Although the proposal hopefully leads some municipalities to think in new and better terms, it can also make savings in the municipalities that are not very good at bringing the citizens home and where management does not take advantage of the opportunity to do better, but just cuts down. I therefore believe, as I also said to L 74, that we, as a Parliament, need to be more concerned about how to get rid of the very tight economic cash-flow thinking and instead manage to create coherence and meaning for the individual patient. This requires good management, and it requires a new investment model which allows early action to be taken. I'd like to work for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125113611	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125113618	Thank you. Complex pulmonary disease heart patients, complicated bone fractures, cancer patients, various brain injuries, yes, continue even the list of diseases that we are now able to treat in the established health system. We are treating far more patients in the health sector today than we did years ago. That's good. But that has only been possible because we have grown specialization. On the other hand, funding and health structures are constantly under discussion, and I admit that there are potential for improvement. For example, it is easy to ask who can best advise and guide the newly operated patient. Is it the specialist staff in the heart department, or is it the generalists who are employed in the municipalities? This question is often debated between municipalities and regions when they have to agree which patients the municipalities have to take over in relation to rehabilitation, because some patients, perhaps with a few days' extra hospitalization, can train themselves, while others need help from the municipality when they get home. It must be the goal at all times that patients can be helped as much as possible to help themselves, and it must be the goal at all times that patients receive the best help. If patients are in the hospital and can be discharged, and if the municipalities actually speculate about keeping them in bed at the hospital, because it pays financially, even if it costs a penalty, then of course it makes sense to raise the tax. But do you know whether this is the case? And if you know that, why has it not been changed in the economic agreement? If the reason why there are too many rest days for finished patients is that the end of treatment is constantly being brought forward and that the prescription of treatment and care in your own home is being increased without the municipalities being able to keep up, then it is a structural problem and not an economic discipline problem. If, on top of that, the hospitals of the regions have the incentive to advance the finalisation process because it can release resources for other and perhaps more lucrative activities, then the proposed legislative amendment would also lead to inappropriate behaviour. If the significant increase in the municipal penalty then leads to the creation of relatively expensive hospital substitutes in the municipalities, which are nevertheless very limited in capacity and may be of varying quality, then the socio-economic loss of the scheme will be felt. If municipalities are to avoid paying penalties for the number of patients in whom they have no or only limited influence, and if they do not have an extended scope of activity, funds must be taken from elsewhere in home care to pay for rapid repatriation. This in itself will increase an uncontrollable task slip in home care, the care of the elderly with the transfer of resources away from ordinary care and practical assistance to hospital-like activities. In the SF we believe, like the KL, that this proposal is about bureaucracy of the worst drawer. Nor can the SF support the proposal in its present form, but we will be asking a number of questions during the committee procedure. We will, among other things. Ask the Minister to explain whether it is actually the case that the municipalities are speculating about not taking care of patients, and the Minister must be able to explain whether the municipalities actually have the resources, both financially and professionally, to take care of patients who may be in a hospital bed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114011	Thank you to the rapporteur. This brings us to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114019	Thank you. We did this national plan of action for the elderly medical patient earlier this year, and this included an emergency package against overcrowding. It was part of the agreement we made at the time that these final treatment rates also had to be adjusted with the clear aim of reducing the number of patients who take up beds in the country's hospitals without having to do so. It also goes without saying that it is foolish to have patients lying on the hallways because beds are missing, and at the same time to have finished patients in bed because the municipality has not taken them home. If we are to prevent this, these final processing tariffs are an effective tool. Before me, several other rapporteurs have mentioned that we have between 35,000 and 40,000 somatic final days per year, and 40%. of which are part of courses of more than 10 final days. This is crazy! One thing is that this is too expensive for us as a society, but try to think of it from the point of view of the individual, because that is where it is most crazy: you are in a hospital, perhaps as an elderly person, and you are actually finished with your treatment, but then you have to lie in the hospital for perhaps up to 10-14 days until the municipality is ready with an offer for you. We have some clever staff in our hospitals who have also come in better food over the last few years, but it is not a place I want to have to spend 10 days as finished. So we both have to do this because it's financially foolish to have so many of these final days, but most importantly, we can't be familiar with the individual patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114215	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114220	It's just because sometimes the rapporteur makes it sound so incredibly simple, that it's like the municipalities just leave these patients alone, because it's just as nice to have them lie there as it is to have them lie somewhere else. That's not what the reality is. If the municipalities had the chance to just take these patients home, they would. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to take a look at the fact that eight out of ten nurses in municipal home care say that they will have patients home before they consider them to be finished, that is to say, citizens who are offered an offer that is not well qualified by the professional staff who have to treat them. Isn't that a matter of concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114302	Well, what you see when you look at this is how huge a difference there is between municipalities, depending on how skilled you are at home with finished patients, and this is incredibly related to the offers that you have in the local government to those patients who have completed for hospital purposes, but who still need extra attention, and there are these emergency places that we also made an agreement that now have to be established in all municipalities, who have to be able to deal with this type of patient.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114333	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114335	Of course, emergency places can be part of the solution, but the reality is that, whether we look at the region or we look at the municipalities, we hear from staff and from professional organisations that they are under extreme pressure both in relation to the working environment and in relation to patient safety. It is clear that some municipalities are more challenged than others. I just find it hard to believe that it is only of malicious will and that just the fact that we are imposing an additional financial sanction should make them just solve the task. Can we not have a concern that precisely in the municipalities that have been challenged in advance, by giving them an additional financial penalty, it will be even more difficult for the citizens who live there?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114414	For me, it's about using society's resources most intelligently. I also talk to a lot of nurses in the country's hospitals who tell about how they are extremely pressured. Yeah, they are, among other things. of many of the patients on the hallways, patients who should not lie on the hallways because there are other patients who take up beds that should not take up beds. So it is not appropriate for us to keep some patients in hospitals to stress the staff there rather than moving them home, which is also in the interests of the individual. So it's a big puzzle that needs to go up, but I just don't think it's for anyone to keep people in the hospital longer than necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114450	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114455	I wonder, then, whether the rapporteur simply has examples that patients are in the hospital for ten unnecessary days.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114508	I can say that the material we have received says that there are between 35,000 and 40,000 somatic finishing days per year. 40% of these are part of the course of more than 10 final days. So if the rapporteur reads the legal material underlying this bill, she will see it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114526	Does the rapporteur think that, in all these circumstances, municipalities could have been prepared with special skills to take care of those patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114536	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114538	I find it difficult to see why a municipality should spend more than 10 days accepting a citizen who needs to come home and get an appropriate offer. I do not think it is satisfactory if the municipalities are unable to fulfil that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114551	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are giving the floor to the Minister for Health and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125114602	Thank you very much for that, President, and thank you for your comments on the draft law. I am pleased that we agree that we need to do more to avoid patients lying on the corridors of our hospitals. We have already taken a great many initiatives from the government and done a great deal, and now this bill comes on top of it. After all, there is no doubt that it is unworthy that patients are being referred to lie on the corridors or block up the elevator or a washroom because the living rooms are full. And it is unworthy for citizens to be in hospitals, even if they are ready to go home. None of the two things we can offer to our elderly fellow citizens, and an important step to solving these problems is that all 98 municipalities in Denmark are ready to quickly take home their finished citizens, so that we can get the citizens back in a safe environment with the help of home care, so that there can be more room in the rooms in the medical departments for patients, and so that we achieve better use of specialised staff and hospital capacity. All in all, we are getting more and better health for the money. With the bill here, we therefore strengthen the municipalities' incentive to take the finished patients from the hospitals by increasing the final treatment tariff. Today there are 35,000-40,000 final treatment days in the Danish health service per year. This is equivalent to the entire Bornholm Hospital being filled up or all medical beds at Horsens Hospital. That's a lot, a lot. And of the 35,000-40,000 days, approx. 40% part of the course with more than 10 final days, i.e. Those we call longer-term workers to address the question from the SF's rapporteur before; does it exist? Yes, it does, and it certainly does. Unfortunately, there are too many examples of this. This suggests that there are some structural flaws in certain municipalities and that this is not just a small flick like this every now and then over the weekend. We believe that these are far too many days of finishing and therefore too many wasted resources. That is why we are now increasing tariffs with legislation. A clear division of labour between municipalities and regions is, of course, very important in a single health service across sectors. This means that as soon as the treatment in the hospital is completed, the municipalities will be able to take back finished citizens. And right must be right, most municipalities in Denmark are already taking home citizens immediately after finalisation. That's good, and that tells us that this is not an impossible task. Therefore, if all municipalities continue to do well, they will not be affected by the bill either. The problem of closing days mainly concerns municipalities in the Capital Region. At the new rates we expect them now to make an extra effort to take their citizens home; to do the same as all other municipalities seem to be able to find out, and thus learn from the best. We double the municipalities' final processing tariff for day one, and we double and triple the tariff for day three and forward. The regions will receive the same tariff as today, while the tariff increase will be returned to the municipalities under one within each region, thus also responding to the question put by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who probably had something to say about the fact that the regions now received an unfortunate incentive. No, that's exactly what they don't do. In this way, the money will be in the municipal system, while the individual municipality will receive an increased incentive to take its citizens home once they have finished in the hospital. The increased tariff from day three forward sends out a signal that long courses in which Mr. Olsen is well over 10 days, simply unacceptable. Adjusted final treatment rates are part of the national plan of action for the elderly medical patient and the government's efforts to avoid overcrowding. So the financial incentives are not alone. With the national action plan for the elderly medical patient, which was made together with the blue parties in the Finance Act last year, we are placing 1.2 billion. kr. to increase efforts towards the elderly medical patients. It also gives a priority of 415 million. kr. for an emergency package against overcrowding, which increases hospital capacity with e.g. more staff. An important piece in avoiding overcrowding is also, in addition to several warm hands, that we reduce the number of finishing days. This will help to ensure that there are enough beds and living rooms for sick patients in Denmark. The bill will be a delight to the citizen who comes home quickly in a secure environment. It will be to the benefit of patients in hospitals who receive more attention from the staff and more space in the living rooms, and it will be to the benefit of the health care system, which overall gets free resources. Overall, therefore, we will have a more dignified treatment of citizens in health care, less overcrowding and more health for money. I hope that the draft law will be properly dealt with by the committee and, of course, I will answer any questions that the committee may have in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125115123	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125115131	Thank you. Now it is usually the case with these proposals that great importance is attached to the need for equality between somatics and psychiatry. We are here today with the very special situation that I am actually glad that psychiatry is not being equated with somatics, for psychiatry is being freed from this. It is just that I find it interesting that when one can see in the consultation note that the reason why the psychiatric system does not come in is that it can be risky to increase the incentive to take patients home if the municipalities are not really ready, where is it so that the mechanism differs from the somatics? Can one not have exactly the same concern about the somatics, namely that the reason why some of the patients who are being reported are in the hospital is that it really is not And who is it that defines when the patient has finished? There may also be some patients who do not actually want to return to the offer that the municipality can make.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125115226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125115229	Psychiatric patients are not covered by the law, as the area is much more difficult than the somatic in assessing whether a citizen has finished or not. That's one of them. some of what we have unfortunately seen a number of very unfortunate cases of violence and the killing of housing offers as a result. That is why I do not think we can compare these two areas either. However, if at a later stage an adjustment to psychiatric patients should prove appropriate, I would very much like to look at it. But my starting point is that you can't just make a one-partition and say: Somatic hospital patients and psychiatric hospital patients are the same thing. We must therefore focus precisely on the individual citizen, the individual patient, and thus not just say that the same thing must apply and that everything must be the same for everyone, knowing that what is good for one person is not necessarily the right answer for the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125115323	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125115327	No, but that's what this is all about. And, as I said, I fully agree with and am very pleased that psychiatry has not been included in this because it could have quite drastic consequences. I am just concerned that the consequences that are feared and that it is recognised here that there can be in psychiatry will be exactly the same as we will see in the somatics, namely that patients will be discharged without there being the right offer to them and that, in that situation, whoever will pay the price will be the patient. Then you can point the gun at the region, and you can point the gun at the municipality, but the price paid will be paid by the patient.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125115359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125115402	I simply do not agree with that. First of all, this bill cannot stand alone. Why is it that we have drawn up a national plan of action for the elderly medical patient, in which a central initiative, among other things: is that we need to strengthen the emergency functions in the municipalities, so that we ensure that everyone is prepared to be able to take the citizens back, or to take preventive action, so that the citizen does not need to go to the hospital at all? Secondly, look beyond the Danish map: It is paradoxical that what the municipalities I had almost said in all of Jutland can find out, it is very difficult for the municipalities in the metropolitan area. Could it not be that the municipalities in the metropolitan area could do the same as the municipalities can apparently find out about Jutland, and that we could thus reduce the number of final days?
ParlaMint-DK_20161125115444	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125115458	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125115524	Thank you. The legislative proposal here is about patient safety, consideration for citizens and, at the very least, about constantly moving in the right direction when it comes to patients' safety and the danger to patients. There are two elements to this bill and they both deal with the implementation of EU directives and frameworks. It is first about the safety of medicines and then about the tissue law, which must ensure good traceability. The first element concerns counterfeit medicines. Falsified medicines are, unfortunately, an increasing problem globally. It goes without saying that these medicines, which are counterfeit, where producers are not certain of the content and where producers' responsibilities cannot be placed, come into the legal supply chains of health services in Denmark or other EU countries, then of course this poses a great danger to the patients who consume the medicine. That is why it is very good and good that the European Union has agreed to tighten things up in this area. From the Danish side, the rules agreed on are implemented quietly. And what this bill is about is the outer packaging of medicine. It is now required to make unique barcodes so that you can follow the medicine back to production. Gaskets must also be secured with a breaking device so that it is very easy for consumers, patients, to see if the package has been opened and this helps to provide greater safety. The plan is for this part of the law to come into force in February 2019. The second element of the bill concerns the tissue law. The aim here is to increase the security of the notification of necessary information so as to avoid serious adverse events. Denmark is a very large export country in terms of human tissues. We have large sperm banks which supply the European market and the world market to a large extent. As the draft law indicates, doubts have now been raised as to whether traceability in relation to donor sperm is in order. The bill provides that instead of distribution directly to a home address, the distribution of semen should take place through registered tissue establishments, fertility clinics and authorised healthcare professionals or the like. So it's just no problem? At any rate, some challenges have been brought to the attention of the Social Democrats, which we believe must clearly be examined towards the third reading. It can be said that in relation to Danish consumers, Danish patients who want fertility treatment and use of the sperm, there are not much changes. I and the Social Democrats do not see in it the major problems involved. But if you look at the European market, you will see that, among other things. on the part of the LGBT environment, questions have been raised as to whether this change in Danish law will help to limit and hinder, in particular, the possibility for single women and lesbian couples to make use of semen from Danish sperm banks. I would urge the Minister to take the initiative towards the third reading, through the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection, to initiate discussions on these consequences. I have received answers to some questions I have asked, but I still think there is a need for us to discuss whether there will be an over-implementation of what the Commission in the European Union is saying we should do. We do not want the Social Democrats to be able to help to impose disadvantages on European consumers of sperm that we might be able to avoid. That is why I believe that, towards the third reading, we need to discuss this more carefully. But it is clear that traceability is essential. And, as I also said at the outset in my rapporteur's speech, there is a clear obligation that traceability should be in place so as to avoid situations arising which should not have arisen because of being infected by the semen delivered. As I said, we think it is quite clear that the first element must be introduced; it supports social democracy. However, with regard to the second element on the export of semen, there are some things that we think we need to examine more closely. In conclusion, we are well aware that lone women and lesbian couples will continue to have the opportunity to come to Denmark and buy the semen, get it delivered through authorised channels, healthcare professionals, and take it home. However, we do not want to support the lack of tolerance in some countries by introducing a Danish law which can hamper the consumption and purchase of sperm in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125120103	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125120115	Intentions with this proposal are to strengthen and improve patient safety. On the one hand, the pharmaceutical law is amended to ensure good traceability in the supply chain to consumers in order to avoid falsified medicines and on the other hand, the tissue law is amended to ensure the traceability of donated tissues and cells as well. In the Danish People's Party we are usually very sceptical about proposals from the EU, but here, where patient safety is concerned, we believe that the proposal benefits Danish citizens. We see a great many counterfeit medicines, and if they are consumed by the Danish consumers who buy them, it will increase the risk that they will be harmed. It is only part of an EU regulation, and it is mostly about packaging, which must ensure that the labels and barcodes on it are correct so as to avoid making mistakes. With regard to the amendment of the tissue law, we must ensure that women receiving fertility treatment are also ensured that the semen they receive is controlled and that it can be traced to the individual donor. Unfortunately, we have seen far too many unfortunate cases in which donor sperm had brought some diseases, so we welcome this safeguard. There will now be a systematic monitoring and registration of sperm donors which could prevent the occurrence of serious adverse events in the form of children being born with hereditary diseases which could have been detected before pregnancy became a reality. We support the proposed procedures in the form of quarantine of donors if serious risks are suspected. We know that with this proposal it may become more cumbersome, but from the DF we want the greatest security when it comes to children. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125120313	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann, rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125120320	Today, we are dealing first with the law of amendment of the law on medicinal products and the law on tissues. It is a proposal which, on the one hand, contains provisions implementing parts of the European Parliament's directive on safety requirements for the packaging of medicinal products and, on the other, changes to the tissue law, the aim of which is to ensure better regulation of the tissue law in order to increase patient safety with regard to traceability of tissues and cells. It sounds a little complicated at first, but it's not so bad. It should be safe to be a patient in the Danish healthcare system, and it should be safe to buy medicine in Denmark. Unfortunately, in the last year we have seen examples of counterfeit medicines finding their way to the Danish market. We in the Danish Parliament have dealt with legislative proposals aimed at curbing this development. We are well on our way, but with the bill here we are implementing a number of additional safety requirements for packaging, which means, among other things, that there will be two new safety features on prescription medicines and certain over-the-counter medicines. One is a barcode which ensures the identification of each package of medicinal products and the other is a device to ensure that the packaging has not been broken. In addition, pharmaceutical companies must set up a data storage system in order to store information on the medicinal products provided with packaging protection. What is involved in drug crime, as there are so many other forms of crime, is that it does not know about national borders. That is why it makes sense to create both a national and a common EU data repository so that we can control and track the origin and authenticity of medicines across borders. Traceability is the focal point of the second part of the bill, which deals with the tissue law, where it is estimated that the current regulation does not meet all the intentions of the EU tissue directive and Commission directives. What does that mean? This also means that patient safety is not optimal when it comes to the distribution and export of germ cells directly to private individuals. In Denmark, the legislation states that a sperm donor must donate semen to 12 pregnancies maximum. The point is that when citizens from, for example, Sweden or Norway receive fertility treatment in cases where they buy semen in Denmark or another country for example. home insemination, it is not always that the women who receive the semen report whether they have become pregnant or not. The consequence is that we in Denmark cannot keep track of whether a sperm donor delivers sperm to 12 viable pregnancies or more as the rules are in Denmark. Is that a problem? Yeah. Why, you can ask yourself. This is partly because there is currently underreporting from private individuals and there seems to be trade on social media with crop straw, partly because reports, for example, are being reported. monitor whether children are born with serious hereditary genetic diseases, and that is not possible when you do not have an overview of the number of pregnancies. For us in the Left, it is obvious that no one can have an interest in giving birth to children with serious genetic diseases. It must be in everyone's interest that if it is discovered that there is a risk of a child being born with a serious genetic disease, we can trace the semen, and the possibility of a permanent suspension or withdrawal of tissue permits must be possible if the rules are not complied with. Therefore, on the basis of patient safety considerations, we need to tighten up so that sperm banks do not send semen directly to the recipient in the future. Instead, it must be delivered directly to the buyer on e.g. a fertility clinic. Healthcare professionals treating children born by means of e.g. semen from a donor has and will continue to be required to report genetic disease in the child. I note that there are positive responses from the Danish Fertility Society, which welcomes the proposed changes, and I also note that the Nordic Cryobank Group cannot support the bill as regards the abolition of the possibility of direct distribution to private individuals. When we on the Left support the proposed changes, it is because, among other things, we have a strong focus on patient safety and therefore a strong desire that women who make home insemination also report more. The proposed changes are a way to go. Let me make it clear, for the record, that the draft law here will apply the same rules to all women, regardless of nationality or sexual orientation. On the left side, we support the bill as presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125120802	Thank you to the rapporteur. So we move on to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125120810	Thank you. The draft law deals with a change in the pharmaceutical law and in the tissue law, and in both cases it concerns the implementation of EU directives. In my rapporteur's speech, I shall deal primarily with the changes in the tissue law, as we consider them to be of particular concern. L 76 aims to amend the tissue law with the aim of ensuring better traceability and patient safety in the use of sperm donors. In order to increase the safety of reporting and detection of serious adverse events through the use of human tissues and cells, including donor sperm, reinforced distribution requirements are introduced which would prevent the semen from being delivered directly to the buyer in future but should instead be transmitted and distributed via registered tissue establishments, hospitals or authorised healthcare professionals. This raises some fundamental issues. If the draft law is adopted in its present form, it will make it virtually impossible for home insemination to take place in the future, both at home and abroad. In addition, the desire for greater traceability and reporting can be ensured by less intrusive action. Some of the world's largest sperm banks are Danish-owned with seats or branches in Denmark. Today, individuals and couples, regardless of geographical location, can order donor sperm from these banks over the Internet, bring it home and perform home insemination for the purpose of achieving pregnancy. The possibility is used by many international customers and makes it possible for women and couples living or staying in countries where for economic, social or regulatory reasons it is not possible to obtain fertility treatment in public or private health care, or who simply do not want to put body to anything other than home insemination, which does not necessarily require medication or other interventions, to have access to cheap and uncomplicated treatment. It is a broad group of buyers, but sexual minorities, single women and alternative family types are supposed to be the major part. In many countries, the current possibility of buying mainly Danish donor sperm and home insemination will be their only option for fertility treatment and thus for pregnancy. The restrictions in L 76 must be seen from an international human rights perspective, where sexual minorities and single women living inside and outside the EU are restricted in their ability to form families on an equal footing with heterosexuals. In a Danish context, it can also be seen from the point of view of rights as problematic that groups which use predominantly home-insemination lesbians and single women are deprived of this simple, cost-effective and intervention-free option. From an economic perspective, this is really costing everyone who wants fertility treatment, especially in view of the November 2015 demand for user charges for the treatment of the desired second child. We also have doubts as to whether there really is no over-implementation of the tissue directive. In any case, it is worrying that pressure on tightening comes from a number of Catholic countries where a Danish requirement that donor sperm can only be distributed through authorised healthcare professionals in the country of residence will result in a de facto ban on single women and lesbians' fertility treatment opportunities. The unit list may support the part that encloses existing rules on quarantines and the blocking of sperm donors if adverse reactions or disease due to insemination with the semen are reported. As a result, L 76 gives the Patient Safety Board the right in future to amend, suspend or revoke a tissue permit and to punish. In addition, other minor clarifications are made in the tissue law. We support this part in isolation. This is a clarification of existing sensible practices in the tissue notice. If the intention is to strengthen patient safety through increased traceability, we in the Enhedslist believe that there are other much more useful tools that could be used. Traceability could be improved by a much less pervasive effort on the part of sperm banks, where they tightened up the need to report to consumers. This could be done on all the sperm banks' platforms, in info material and by a more intensive follow-up from the sperm bank. Now we have received a note from the Minister who demonstrates that this is a requirement to comply with the tissue directive. All we have to do is continue to get evidence that the demands I read out here will not be met by these reinforced actions alone. We shall ask for proof of this in the committee's work. The adoption of L 76 has economic and social consequences for couples, single women and sexual minorities, which seem completely out of proportion to what the law aims to achieve. According to the sperm banks and the Ministry, Danish donor sperm undergoes a screening of very high standard, and Danish sperm donors are thus generally better prepared for genetic diseases than the average male. That is why the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125121258	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125121306	There are two parts to the bill. The first part concerns the implementation of EU legislation to prevent falsified medicinal products. It appears that there has been an increased incidence of falsified medicines within the European Union. This will be countered by introducing a new unique barcode and a special scheme to check whether a package has been broken. In addition, a new data storage system will be created. The second part of the bill concerns the distribution of donor sperm. Much of the donor sperm is now distributed directly to the woman who wants to become pregnant. This bill wants to change that. If adopted, women will in future have to pick up the semen from a health care professional. The reason is a desire for increased traceability of donor sperm so that the donor can be identified if children are born with genetic diseases. That is a very sensible wish, because we all want to increase patient safety and avoid diseases. I am just a little in doubt as to the extent to which this objective is achieved by the present proposal, or whether we are simply overimplementing and perhaps even at the same time gaining less traceability and less patient safety. I therefore hope that we can ask the Minister for help to clarify this in the forthcoming committee's work and to clarify any misunderstandings. The increased traceability must be achieved by inserting a link between the sperm bank and the woman. This link is a health care professional. And it is believed that more women should be reported if they give birth to children with hereditary diseases, thereby increasing traceability. In the cases we are familiar with, women have reported. That is why we know about the problem and that is why that part of it has not been the problem in those cases. But this is also one of the things that I hope we can shed light on in committee work, so on what grounds it is believed that women would rather report to a health professional than to a sperm bank, and why it is that the bill will ensure greater traceability. After all, women have reported, so that is not what has been the problem in the cases we know about, but perhaps the problem is that the sperm bank has not fulfilled its obligation and has not responded as it should. I don't know. However, if that is the case, perhaps greater traceability could be achieved by imposing additional safety requirements on the sperm banks. The Government has considered that Denmark is obliged to comply with the request made by the EU to amend the legislation. I would also like to ask the Minister for help in furthering the work of the next committee. I very much hope that the Minister will be in favour of a dialogue on whether or not we are actually committed and to what extent, and also to see whether there should be a way of meeting the EU's wishes in a slightly different way, and yet maintaining the possibility of single and lesbian families being established throughout Europe under safe conditions. This must be done in a way that enables us to do as much for patient safety as possible, but without prejudice to women's rights and in a way that respects Danish attitudes and values in relation to single and lesbian people without forcing healthy women into the health system. So the Liberal Alliance looks forward to a positive and constructive committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125121723	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125121731	I would like to start by saying that, when I was elected in the Folketing, I did not imagine that I would stand on the platform and mention the word semen as many times as I come to now, so I will try to be brief. L 76 consists of two parts which are not directly related. The first part of L 76 is about false medicines and about preventing counterfeit medicines and introducing safety requirements for packaging. In 2010, SKAT estimated that 50 per cent. of the medicines sold over the Internet are counterfeited and thus potentially dangerous to consumers. It can, for example, be done. Pepticides containing three times as much of the active substance. In 2016, this year, a worldwide action was taken against the illegal sale of medicines, for example 4,900 websites were closed or their payment options removed. Falsified medicine is at best ineffective and, at worst, very dangerous. So we're positive about that part of the bill. However, we want to deepen the processing of personal data and the security of data in the proposal. The second part of the legislative proposal is the part about providing greater security in the reporting of necessary information on serious adverse events when using donor sperm for fertility treatment, and we find it a little more complicated. We recognise that there may be a need to ensure that no adverse events occur. In 2012 a single donor gave nine children in Denmark a very serious hereditary disease, and in this context it was directed against the sperm banks that they should sound the alarm and have the semen stopped as soon as they get the slightest suspicion that a donor can pass on hereditary diseases. In 2014 the same problem was again experienced, where a girl among others. the same dangerous disease, NF1, was transmitted by a donor. The sperm bank only reported the problem to the Health Authority after six months, and by that time at least 42 children had been conceived by semen from the sick from various sperm banks. According to the National Health Service, at least seven children were diagnosed by this donor. So, of course, we would like to help stop the risk of children transferring these kinds of dangerous diseases, but we also have some doubts as to whether the particular distribution requirement proposed in the bill, where private buyers can no longer receive the semen directly at the home address, solves the problems of these serious unintended and unwanted incidents with a donor's sperm. At the same time, we also fear that this law will put people alone and homosexuals in other countries badly, as others have also mentioned today, because right now they have the opportunity to have semen delivered directly from Denmark over the Internet. It is particularly important for us to clarify the consequences for these minority groups before we can take a final position on the legislative proposal. I would like to conclude by saying that we consider it more sensible to take a stand on these two proposals separately. In the alternative, we will await the work of the committee. We want some technical details in the draft law to be clarified before we take a final position on or against L 76.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125122116	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125122124	Thank you. I am simply so happy because we have just heard the Danish People's Party say how important it is to work together in Europe. You could do something more, I would say to Mrs Liselott Blixt, because it is really important that you can rely on medicines. It's just so gross to imagine that you get something wrong into your body because it's rigged. We cannot solve this in Denmark alone, and that is why it is important that we have strong cooperation in Europe. Where this bill gives rise to political discussions is, of course, the part about the stricter distribution requirements and the control of donor sperm. The government will introduce a requirement that semen to private individuals should in future pass through registered tissue establishments, authorised health professionals or the like, instead of being able to get it directly. It is important for safety reasons that the semen is under control so that it can be found out if something is wrong, and that is why I support the intention of the proposal. I understand that it is difficult in the sperm bank, and I do not feel that it should necessarily be exactly this solution, but I have not seen a solution that is better and less bureaucracy and that can provide the same patient safety. My main concern with the proposal is the concern raised by the homosexual environments. We must not destroy the opportunities for lesbians to have children. The Minister says that there is no problem because, for example, there is no problem. Polish women can continue to get semen from Denmark, as long as it goes through a health care professional. After all, the balance in this should be that we should strengthen traceability and thus the safety of lesbian women and not take opportunities away from them, and that is why we want to help to see whether women can be better placed. I mean, you could, for example. Imagine that you can continue to receive semen from Denmark as long as it just goes through a health person, or should you physically show up in Denmark? These are some of the things we will try to address with the Minister so that we can make the best possible agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125122358	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. This is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125122409	Thank you. I think I'll try if I can just say it once. SF always looks with great sympathy at actions that can strengthen patient safety in society. That is why, as several other rapporteurs have said, it makes sense to strengthen the traceability of the consumption of medicines in society through better safety requirements for packaging and data storage systems, etc. On the other hand, we are concerned about tightening up the business law, that it will have consequences for women and single people, as LGBT Denmark points out in their consultation response. According to LGBT Denmark, it will now be completely impossible to distribute donor sperm and donated eggs via private individuals in the EU. This may mean that in future lesbians and singles in a number of European countries where rainbow families are not allowed will be referred to a totally grey market or random donation from friends and acquaintances. This problem could seriously jeopardise the security of our citizens. That is why this issue must be clarified in committee before we can take a position on the overall proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125122526	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125122537	Thank you. As previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, there are two elements to this draft law that I find difficult to argue for is connected, so I will not try to do so. But I can say that the first element, namely this one on packaging, I can also hear that there is broad support for. It is so crucial that we take action against the developments we have seen in the European Union, where there have been several instances that medicines do not contain what is on the package but are falsified. I think this is a very good way of doing it, because at the same time we are ensuring that there is an implementation time that is also realistic for the industry, because it has major consequences for them, because it is another way in which they have to produce their packaging and new demands are being made. So it is very good that a balancing approach has been found which, of course, places the safety of the patient at the centre, but, on the other hand, also has an implementation that is not unduly restrictive. Then there's the other element of this bill that's about artificial insemination. It has to be said that the fact that more and more children are coming into the world by means of artificial insemination gives us a political responsibility to pay extra attention to the safety of artificial insemination. We must be sure that the necessary reporting takes place and, unfortunately, as others have said before me, there is a tendency for under-reporting. We need to make sure that we get a record of successful fertilizations, so that we ensure that the threshold of the 12 is respected. We must also be sure, most importantly, that there are no genetic hereditary diseases passed on to children if it could be avoided. This requires better traceability. On the basis of that logic, we on the conservative side are in favour of this bill and intend to support it. I can hear that some concerns have been raised and I can well follow that it is important that we do not, in our zeal to ensure better traceability and greater security in relation to artificial fertilisation, take action against the possibility of having different family types. However, I also think that the Minister for Health has given some good answers to how this can be dealt with in order to avoid this. So from the conservative side, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125122803	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are giving the floor to the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125122816	Thank you for that and thank you for the comments and for the predominantly good reception of the draft law. It shows our common interest in jointly strengthening patient safety by ensuring good traceability both for medicinal products and for human tissues and cells, that is. good traceability throughout the supply chain, link by link, from production or delivery to the citizen. The proposed amendments to the pharmaceutical law must protect us from counterfeit medicines. This is important because, unfortunately, counterfeiting is an increasing global problem, a problem which must be minimised as far as possible in the interests of patient safety. A fake medicine can be extremely harmful to health, because fake medicines may lack important active substances, contain too little, too much, be toxic etc. Here, the two new safety requirements for the packaging of medicinal products will provide us with good protection, on the one hand, with the requirement that with a unique barcode, every single package of medicinal products will be traceable back to the place of manufacture and, on the other, with the requirement that each package be fitted with a break-up protection. It provides an effective system to prove whether a drug is genuine or it is falsified. The pharmaceutical industry itself must ensure the practical implementation of the safety requirements and pharmacists and other dispensers must be responsible for checking each package. With a combined effort on the new requirements, the safety net under our medicine will be even more finely masked. Then there are changes to the tissue law. The main element of the amendments to the tissue law is the proposal for requirements for the distribution of semen by sperm banks. Here the government is proposing to tighten up the distribution of sperm in the interests of patient safety. The aim is, on the one hand, to prevent and limit the number of donors carrying serious hereditary disease and, on the other hand, to detect and inform about the risk of disease in other children of the same donor, so that children know that they can get as soon as possible into appropriate treatment when needed. With the proposal, private individuals will continue to be able to select and buy semen from a particular donor from a sperm bank such as today, but the donor sperm will no longer be able to be delivered, as it were, to the door of Mr. and Mrs Jensen, who can then do with the semen as they please. Instead, the donor sperm should in future be provided to professional operators such as fertility clinics, authorised healthcare professionals and the like, operators who already have the obligation and experience to ensure traceability and reporting of necessary information and thus form part of an already functioning safety system. Although I think these are absolutely appropriate amendments to the tissue law, I understand that there is uncertainty as to whether the changes are now necessary in the form they have in the draft law and whether they can be implemented in a different way, and that is why I would also like to invite all the rapporteurs to a discussion in which the Patient Safety Board can also be present, so that we can have answers to the various questions, concerns which may be of both a professional and a more legal nature. There I make myself available to take the initiative for such a meeting, and I hope, of course, that the committee will also be able to deal with it properly, and I will, of course, answer any questions that the committee may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125123143	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161125123157	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 29 November 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
