ParlaMint-DK_20160115100019	We'll start the meeting. There is today the following review: Martin Henriksen (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Hasteforskning nr. 16 (What can the Minister say about the increasing number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark and what significance, including economic, will it have for the municipalities this year and the coming years?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160115100100	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115100141	The debate is open. We are in favour with the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115100152	Thank you. The bill is about greater road safety. This is something that we attach great importance to in the social democracy, which is why we have also looked forward to today's debate. Back in September 2014, the Ministry of Transport published an action plan to strengthen efforts to combat the sale of illegal safety equipment to children in cars and buses and the illegal installation of equipment. Of course, safety for children in traffic is essential. The action plan then needs to clarify the legal basis for market surveillance of road vehicles and personal safety equipment for road users in order to ensure that the necessary controls can be carried out. Of course, we fully support that. It is good to see that the proposal here today follows up on the good work of the previous government. Of course, we must be able to have confidence that the safety equipment on the market is in order, that there is sufficient supervision in this area and that there is enough scope for enforcing the rules that exist. The legislative proposal will correct this, because there will now be a wider range of supervisory powers in relation to product requirements, which will be possible for the trader to be required to provide information on the product within a given period of time, while some of the illegal conditions will be rectified and there will be a real possibility of supervision because all business premises can be checked, including storage rooms. There will also be greater regulation of the testing bodies carrying out tests in the field of driving technology. We have also noted that there is general support for the draft law from the consultation parties, among others. from the Council for Safe Transport, which also believes that this will improve road safety, and from the Consumer Council Think, which has regularly experienced problems in this area. Then we also think it is positive that the consumer Ombudsman's proposals for changes have been listened to in the light of the hearing. So the Social Democrats support the proposal and we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115100343	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115100349	The Danish People's Party is also positive about this bill. All that can contribute to increasing road safety is, of course, common sense. We may not be able to have the big debate on that today. However, we have some reservations, because the draft law also says that this supervisory authority can easily buy products and charge the cost to a manufacturer or a dealer. I would say that this must not be a burden on business. Above all, you cannot just run around as a supervisory authority and print bills unless you discover a mistake, because then it is quite all right for you to pass the bill on to the person who made the mistake. But otherwise, I think that if you do not find fault with some products, you cannot just write out a bill to some producer on these visits. So we will have a little more clarification on this during the committee procedure. The part of the draft law dealing with test bodies is quite excellent. Hopefully, then, we can get some good and sensible guidance for the sighting halls so that they do not torment the lives of old diesel cars, as is actually the case in some places today, where we have a bit of strange rules in that area. But it's fine that we get better rules in this area too. After all, we are all familiar with the case of VW and about this issue of erroneous consumer information in relation to emissions. You think you're buying a car that doesn't mess up a lot, and then it turns out it's not true. You may also occasionally buy a car that you think can drive almost from Jutland to Zealand on a tank full of petrol. It also turns out that neither can it. So I think it's great that you get these test procedures done. So all in all, we have to say that we in the Danish People's Party are positive about this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115100551	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115100603	The purpose of this bill is for companies and consumers in Denmark to have confidence that products sold on the Danish market also meet the applicable product requirements. The Danes must be able to have confidence in the safety of the products sold. This also applies, of course, in the field of vehicle engineering, including with regard to equipment parts and accessories for vehicles and safety equipment for road users. Failure to comply with the requirements could seriously affect road safety. In concrete terms, for example, we are dealing with seat belts in buses with children, car seats and other things. As part of a more effective supervision of the driving sector, this bill provides for the possibility for the supervisory authorities to have access to workshops, etc., against appropriate identification, but without a court order. to exercise control. Thus this area is treated as e.g. food control, fireworks control and electricity safety, and I welcome that. To sum up, the draft law ensures greater transparency in the market for vehicle safety equipment. This leads to better conditions for fair competition among the players. No one should be able to cheat on competitive advantages by ignoring the safety of road users and the quality of products. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115100727	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mr. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115100739	Also Enhedslisten finds that this is a good bill that helps to strengthen road safety. It's true that you're strengthening the supervision... with the Traffic Authority as the supervisory authority... and we think that's really good. The supervision of equipment parts and accessories for vehicles and safety equipment for road users in general is strengthened, and that is a very good thing. It can give a hope of cleaning up the area sometimes you have the feeling that there is such a whole jungle of illegal and traffic-dangerous products, and that is from bicycle lamps that do not meet the conditions and reflexes and to vehicles and their equipment. It is also quite clear that the legislative proposal strengthens the supervision of misleading marketing, and we think this is very good even with the possibility, as happens in other areas, of requiring traders to withdraw the products. Market surveillance comes with this bill at the same level as that in other product areas. Now you can check the documentation, and you can even carry out tests. So that's how you get at lap level. It provides for the possibility of imposing fines on traders who have sold or marketed products that do not meet the requirements, and this may lead in the extreme to a notification to the police, and then fines are imposed under the Road Traffic Code. I note that the Consumer Council Think in their hearing reply has some comments on fines, which I think might be worth considering. They consider that the imposition of fines has a greater effect than a fixed amount of fines on misleading marketing or the sale of products which do not meet the requirements. I think you might want to think about that. However, allow me to make a few comments on these testing bodies, which are also a central part of the legislative proposal, and which are dealt with in detail. I will allow myself to do so in the wake of this VW scandal, where there has really been cheating on the measurement of emissions, i.e. emissions, from cars and simply cheating on the information provided by the car manufacturer, in this case VW. The Enhedslisten has called for consultation on these matters; we have had both the tax minister, the transport minister and now here last Wednesday the Minister for the Environment in consultation. And we have proposed calling for a national testing laboratory to be set up to test whether cars comply with the standards they have provided, including testing the information provided by car manufacturers. Now it turns out from the bill that there are actually no less than six test laboratories and I do not quite know the nature of all of them. The Enhedslisten had in the course of the consultations suggested that the Technological Institute could be used in this area. But it turns out that, as the comments state, these six testing laboratories are actually recognised to carry out tests on the basis of which the eyesight and approval of a vehicle are based. And one might almost ask: what more do we want? We really do have the device that we can draw on in this regard. In fact, we have the bodies that can monitor the information provided by car manufacturers if otherwise the comments in the draft law stand to believe, and after all, they have to assume that they do. At the conciliation meeting with the Minister for the Environment on Wednesday, she reiterated that she was certainly not satisfied with the new EU tests on diesel vehicles agreed in the EU, but, as she said, it was the best thing to achieve in the situation, and that is why Denmark voted in favour. Only the Netherlands voted against the new tests. The Minister for the Environment himself pointed out that it is a problem that there are so many car producing countries in the European Union, including the strip of virtually all the major countries. And it is clear that then suddenly some people have something in hand, also financially. And as I also said in the consultation to the Minister for the Environment: why not play the role of watchdog? Why does Denmark not play the role of a watchdog? After all, we have nothing to do with it; we are not a car producing country. That is why I call on the Minister for Transport and, in so far as this is concerned, the Minister for the Environment to consider the use of the expertise that we apparently already have and which is reflected in the draft law. Then we can contribute to cleaner air, better climate and the environment and to the fact that drivers actually get the car they have paid for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101258	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101305	The Liberal Alliance has nothing to object to this bill, which improves the legal basis for enforcing the supervision of, for example, illegal child safety equipment and strengthens the requirements of the bodies that test and approve this equipment. As I read the proposal, it is intended that a large part of the controls will be designed as a form of documentary check, where it is the trader who may be asked to provide relevant documentation on the labelling applied to the product or for product requirements to be complied with. That's gotta be good demands. And if you can trust the Ministry, the operating costs of these reinforced schemes should be within 0.5 million. kr. and without administrative burdens. So on this basis we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101402	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. Then it's the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. Nicolaj Amstrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101410	My fellow rapporteurs have examined L 83 very well and what lies within it. We also think that this is a sensible proposal. We also attach great importance to the fact that the Council for Safe Transport, in its response to the consultation, expresses the view that this clarification of the legal basis for the exercise of market control and the supervision of product requirements will improve road safety. We also attach importance to the proposal's action against misleading marketing, and it is also good that more precise rules are being set up for testing bodies. There is also an additional right to check non-public commercial premises, but as long as it is necessary to ensure supervision and thereby improve the safety of that vehicle equipment, we are of course in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101501	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101507	Among the consultation answers, I think it is from the Council for Safe Transport that says very precisely that this bill will help to increase road safety, because the Ministry of Transport and Building will be better able to check whether the equipment put in cars and buses actually increases safety or not. It also makes us very positive about this bill, which we also see as a legislative proposal that can increase road safety and ensure that all the equipment put in cars actually works. Therefore, support from the Radical Left for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101551	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur for the SF, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101600	Too many people get hurt in traffic. Good safety equipment is one of the important instruments for continuing along the road to safer traffic. It is therefore a good thing that we can see that the Council for Safe Transport is expressing general satisfaction with the proposal, because they consider it essential that companies and consumers can have confidence that the products placed on the Danish market meet the necessary and applicable product requirements. This is also why the Council's view of the proposal is that it will obviously help to improve road safety in Denmark. We in the SF also think that the comments of the Consumer Ombudsman on the part concerning misleading and incorrect declarations on road vehicles should be taken into account, and we think that we have relevant comments to make the sanctions as effective as possible. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101701	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101710	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. It may sound like a very technical proposal to some people, and so is it. However, I would like to stress that this is a very important legislative proposal and that it is important that companies and consumers in Denmark have confidence that the products placed on the Danish market comply with the applicable product requirements. This also applies in the field of road transport with regard to vehicles, parts of equipment and accessories for vehicles, as well as safety equipment for road users. Failure to comply with product requirements can have a major impact on road safety. That is also why it is important that we have the opportunity to carry out thorough checks to ensure that these products comply with product requirements. Like the rapporteurs, I look forward to further discussion in the Folketing and, of course, I am available for both answers to questions which may arise in this context, and consultation etc. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101807	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101810	I cannot feed myself because we have now had these consultations which I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. And when I was reading this bill, I realized that we actually have a device that allows us to test the actual information provided by car manufacturers on their work at national level. In the light of the VW scandal, it was therefore worth considering in our opinion, and it is also one of the points we have made in the consultation, to stack the apparatus on its feet or not stack it on its feet, because it really exists in advance so that Denmark could play a very, very positive role in the European Union when discussing these things. And Denmark might therefore also have a little tougher demands than those that came out of it, and as I referred to the Minister for the Environment to say that she was also not satisfied with it, but that it was the best achievable. Then Denmark could become a pioneer country in this area. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we have nothing to do with car manufacturers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101912	I mean, I'm always positive about looking at some suggestions made by Members of Parliament. Often it is also what makes this filet well and in place, so that basically it gets better. It should be borne in mind here that, within the rules that exist in the European Union, it is the countries that have car manufacturers who have to ensure that it is approved. And if it is then approved in one country, it is also approved in the remaining countries. But it is clear that when you can go in and say that there are some things you want to check here, you have to have a sensible talk about the other. I'd love to. But I think we should look at whether that is what the centres can do in relation to the other. I understood there when I once asked about it that it was something more complicated. But let us look into it instead, and then we can discuss it. I have an open mind about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101957	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115101958	Of course, I'd love to sign for that. I think that is a very positive message from the Minister for Transport. When I like to pluck on the table or what to call the role of Denmark in this connection, it is because after all we are around the table when the test, which is now on its way, is being developed and decided. It's actually happening these days. Yes, this has already happened in the autumn, but I understand that the last negotiations are taking place right now and here. That is why it would be very good for Denmark to be able to say in this connection: well, that is something we can easily find out. I recognize, of course, the comments made by the Minister for Transport that it is necessary to find out whether this apparatus is available. I am simply referring to the comments made in the draft law, and they say at least that there is some apparatus available.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115102048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115102049	Well, the questioner quotes quite correctly. It is true that we have the centres that can go in and control it. Then we'll just have to look at how far their powers go. I fully share the view of the questioner: I found what happened to be strong, very regrettable, because it is, of course, helping to undermine confidence in the system. So I think it's worth it that we get a few questions on that. It may also be that we need to have a talk in committee; I am happy to come to a consultation where we can discuss it. But I think it deserves us to give it an extra round.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115102120	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Ministry of Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115102136	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115102201	I think most of us have tried to get on the road, and then there is a caravan in front that drives much slower, it drives only 70 km/h., or we have tried to get on the highway where there is a caravan that drives slower than the rest of us. Then you can take care of yourself every once in a while thinking that it was incredibly awkward. You can also imagine the little happy family who are going on holiday, they have gotten in the car and have the caravan on the back, and they are looking forward to going on another wonderful vacation, and so the stress it is about a lot of other drivers lying behind and blinking and signaling and not understanding that they are slower than all of us. That is why we in the Socialist Group are extremely pleased that, after the vote, I must say that a very long piece of preparatory work has finally succeeded in making this proposal, which is a really good proposal and which will mean that you will have more safety on the roads because there will be a more equal driving of ordinary cars and cars with trailers in between. We will have a better appearance, we will have better conditions for the campers and, in general, much more coherent traffic. We are glad that the Socialist side can succeed with this proposal. It is, of course, a proposal that a number of different campers' organisations, including the United Kingdom, have to deal with. Danish Camping Union, but also Dansk Caravan Klub, has fought a lot to make sense of. For what they have experienced is that the reality on the roads is that it works much better when driving at a more equal speed. It is also true that, if we compare ourselves with other countries in Denmark, we can see that they have long since begun to change this, so that we have greater equality in the speed of ordinary cars and cars with trailers between them. It is also the case that the Danish auditoriums have already prepared this. After all, for caravans and trailers, Tempo 100 is approved for driving in Germany, and the Danish sighting halls are already able to approve them for it, so that you can have such a Tempo 100 approval mark on. So we can get started right away. It has the added advantage that if you're going to be allowed to drive these 100 km/h. So the safety of driving with trailer gets bigger with this proposal, because there's a perfectly natural incentive to get your caravan or your trailer approved for this and thus also the safety check. So this is a very important step in the right direction. Then we've heard from among others. Some of the autocampists are therefore those who drive a camping car, as we may say in a little more ordinary Danish, or rather in Old Danish who cannot really understand why they are not in the proposal here. There I understand from the Minister that it is simply because it is not part of this law committee, but the Minister is, in fact, interested in subsequently amending the decree which now imposes on motorhomes or caravans over 3,500 kg to drive as slowly as caravans, so that they get up on the same terms. So to the many autocampists who are out there, we Social Democrats are happy to say that we are at least very aware of this. It must be the case that when we provide better conditions for regular campers, it must also apply to caravans or motorhomes. So all in all, it is a very good proposal and I hope that when the camping season starts, perhaps around Easter, people will sit out there and rejoice that these new rules apply. At any rate, we in the Socialist Group are pleased that the government has followed up the work we did while we had the government power to change this. It is a step in the right direction for safety, a step in the right direction for mobility and accessibility and a step in the right direction for the thousands of Danes who are happy to camp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115102636	Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115102638	Allow me to dispute the rapporteur's talk that this should be a boost to safety, on our roads and on our motorways, that it should provide a smoother driving, that is to say, this famous flow, which is always talked about and which some people refer to. Isn't it true that this bill leads to more slow-moving traffic? people driving below 110 km/h respectively. and 130 km/h. On the second lane, on the motorway, this leads to several lane changes, several overtakes, which are some of the dangerous situations, also on motorways after all, and that this leads to more braking of the fast-moving ordinary passenger cars, which run 110 km/h respectively. and 130 km/h, and more accelerations? I can't just get into my head that it's gonna give me a bigger flow of traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115102740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115102742	It is always good to have Enhedslistens Henning Hyllested present in the Chamber, because then you know that nothing passes by without an extra critical look. If there's something I think annoys us all as drivers, it's when you get there at a reasonable pace and then there, for example. is a truck or something that pulls out to overtake. You can almost bite the wheel of irritation over it. And the prospect that there should now also be caravans pulling out in front of you can make you completely tired. So, of course, I hope that is not the case. As I read here, there is no prospect of it, and when I have been in dialogue with the Danish Camping Union or the Danish Caravan Club, it is not the prospect they have for this. They say they just want to have the opportunity to get up on this in order to fit in with the flow that's like mr. Henning Hyllested himself calls it. But they have no need to lie and overtake. I don't think that the way you drive a car when you have a caravan on the back, like inciting you to lie and zigzag down the highway, where you take one overtaking after another. But it is clear that this is going to be a huge problem, so maybe we should introduce more of these passengers, where you cannot overtake if you are driving one of the slower vehicles, which caravans will still be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115102855	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115102857	I very much agree that the need can also be difficult to see. At least in the case of campers, there are people on their way to and from holidays. I find it hard to see that there is an urgent need to come forward an hour or two more quickly. But I guess it's true that if you get the chance now to drive 100 km/h. and thus overtake the truck that lies in front of you, which only drives 80 km/h. and which there are a lot of on the highways, so I suppose you do too. And then I guess you get the effect that I mentioned in my first question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115102932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115102933	Ahr, once the summer atmosphere spreads and you sense that the other campers have found themselves and the boccia tournament is underway and what it could be, you want to get there. However, I agree that there is no desire to compromise safety. I think that will be the case, too, as we have heard from campers that if they experience a little that they cannot really follow the flow, they would like to have the opportunity to lie down where it is. It's not like they're gonna be chasing one overtake after another. By the way, if you put your GPS, you can see on the car that so much faster you don't get there either, if that's the way you drive. What makes sense, including fuel economics and environmentals, is driving at a fairly steady pace all the way. And it knows if any campers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103019	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103029	We think this bill is a really good bill. I fully support what the previous rapporteur said, namely that this will help to increase road safety. Even though Mr. Henning Hyllested clearly disagrees with me. I would say that the more uniform speeds we can get on the road, the better road safety we get, because then we won't get all this kangaroo rides. I listened to that too, sir. Henning Hyllested asked whether there would be a risk that caravans and cars with a trailer would overtake the motorway. There may be a real concern about that, but we must then deal with that in the traffic law. In the Danish People's Party we certainly do not open up the possibility of Tempo 100, to see that all the caravans are in the overtaking track. If so, it will also be mainly lorries they could overtake, and there is such a small difference in speed that we must, of course, be aware that this will not be a problem. But otherwise it is our very clear view that this will help to increase road safety. The second point in the proposal is this: motor vehicles and tractors must drive 40 km/h. instead of 30 km/h. It is a good thing that we are now legalising what is happening out there, because I believe that most tractors have been able to drive up to 50 km/h for several years, so it is quite good to raise it to 40 km/h. Now that we are talking about this at the same speed, I am a little surprised that when you use it as an argument for better road safety, this has been tampered with by trucks in cities. After all, trucks inside cities are allowed to travel no more than 50 km/h. Although on a four-track ring road there is a sign that you have to drive up to maybe 60 km/h. or 70 km/h, trucks may only drive 50 km/h. I simply do not understand that. If you want traffic flow and you want uniform driving, then you need trucks to follow the traffic that is there. The second simply makes no sense. That is why I can already announce that the Danish People's Party will be tabling an amendment in this area, so that trucks inside the cities, like everyone else, will of course have to follow the speed of the sign. Everything else just doesn't make sense. It is to the detriment of the transport sector that we here in Denmark as one of the only countries have this rule. In any case, we will be involved in this as an amendment, and we hope then that perhaps even the government can decide and see the wisdom and wisdom of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103315	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103317	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Kim Christiansen has an eye for my point that this may not really give the flow of traffic to which otherwise reference is made. Sir. Kim Christiansen himself raises the issue of flow in relation to trucks in cities. Is the logical consequence of this bill not really, and is it not the next thing we see that we are increasing the speed of lorries to 100 km/h?? Then again we have trucks, buses, caravans, trailers placed in the first lane. We got the Tempo 100 buses, now we come caravans, and is the logical consequence of it not if you want to create flow that then we also increase the speed limit for trucks to 100 km/h. On highways?
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103413	I think this is a fantastic suggestion, but I didn't even see it coming from the Enhedslisten. For the sake of the Danish People's Party, we are allowed to do so in such a way that the lorries can also drive 100 km/h. On the motorway, because then we do not have these differences, then we have the same speeds on motorways and on roads, and we think that would be quite good. So, for the sake of the Danish People's Party, we can add it to the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103437	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103439	Yes, it certainly should not be seen as a proposal. I'm just asking if this isn't the logical consequence. So we have heavy trucks of 30-40 tonnes to lie and drive 100 km/h. What does this have to do with road safety? The speed kills, as you know, and the higher the speed, the worse accidents, with more dead, with more injured. Is that not essentially the consequence of what we are doing and what we have been doing over a few years now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103509	This is certainly not how we see it in the Danish People's Party. The more we can standardize these speeds on motorways that are built for this speed, the less accidents we're going to get. At the time, the speed of the motorway was generally raised to 130 km/h. So I don't have the same concern as Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103546	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103550	On the socialist side, we are very pleased that the Danish People's Party remembers to mention the experience that is just with the speed increases we have made some years ago. This has meant more road safety and not less road safety. In any case, it has meant fewer accidents, and that is positive. Now that Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Henning Hyllested, has painted such a scare picture about these trucks, I would like to hear from Mr. Kim Christiansen from the Danish People's Party, who I know is closely following the truck industry, if it is not the case that a lot of those who are road hauliers also have it as one of their parameters to save fuel and therefore as one of the most natural things in the world, if it is not necessary to come forward quickly, drives relatively slowly, that is, because it is very good economy in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103642	There is no doubt that if you raise the speed of trucks to 100 km/h, there are probably not many who will follow it, because then it will start to get really expensive. And for the transport sector, I'm pretty sure it doesn't matter whether you drive 2 or 3 km on 1 litre of diesel. So I agree with Mr. Rasmus Prehn in that if you took the step of saying that now you had to drive 100 km/h, it would actually not be a part of reality; I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103706	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103708	I am very pleased that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party confirms this. And I think that if you had to make such a change, it would be precisely to ensure the possibility of making this flow when it is necessary, but of course not because the average speed has to be increased because there may be all sorts of other reasons not to do so. But when it is that it makes sense to lie down at 3-4 km/h faster to fit in at the speed there is, then there must be that possibility, that is to ensure the flow, so that we get a safer and smoother traffic. That is why we are putting forward some of these proposals. I would therefore like to say that we in the Socialist Group would like to have a dialogue on this with lorries. We need to know more about this before we proceed with it, but it is certainly not the case that we reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103750	I did not really sense any question in it, but I would just like to state that the fact that we are giving the opportunity to drive 100 km/h is not the same as the fact that we have to do so. And that's the way it is at all speeds. We can see that very much on the roads, too. Now I can see that mr. Henning Hyllested pulls a little bit on the smile tape, but I'd say I see a lot of people who don't drive the 110 km/h, you gotta get on a highway. It can then be as much trouble, you might say, and can create some dangerous situations. So we are giving the motorists some opportunities here, and we hope, of course, that they will be accepted and used with care, so that we still have good safety on our roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103829	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115103838	I think a lot of campers and trailers think it's a good day today when we come forward with this bill. As far as the trailer people are concerned, we know that it is primarily the Jutes. So it's a good day for them, because what the government is proposing with this bill is that, after the German Tempo 100 model, we introduce a system where cars connected trailers, that is. e.g. caravans and trailers, can be approved to drive up to 100 km/h. on the highway towards today 80 km/h. and up to 80 km/h. on other roads towards today 70. It is, of course, a clear condition that vehicles must meet a number of technical conditions relating to fittings, equipment, safety, brakes, etc., so that this can be done. I am convinced that this change will lead to a better flow of traffic, with the result that road safety and propulsion will be strengthened, by the fact that everything else will be reduced. It must be stressed that no one is being forced to drive 100 km/h. I don't have the guts to drive over 100 kilometers an hour. With a caravan, I heard someone say, but neither should you. You can just keep driving 80 km/h. as today, but now there will be an opportunity to follow the traffic and, in particular, on motorways, I am convinced that this is an advantage. It should of course be noted that we have introduced Tempo 100 for buses on motorways in the past, and we know that this system now works very well in practice. With regard to the self-propelled motorhomes, I would also like to say that the Left is prepared to include them, that is. The Tempo 100 scheme. So we're gonna have to look at that here afterwards. The draft law will also make it possible for tractors, motor vehicles, etc. can be approved to drive up to 40 km/h. On the roads to 30 km/h. Today. Of course, there are also a number of technical requirements for the quality of vehicles. Tractors are today built far more securely than when I was in my pure youth and I can reveal that it is about to be a few years ago • drove around quietly on the roads of a Ford 4000. It is quite different and safer tractors that are driving today, and we will, of course, take the consequence of that. With regard to lorries on motorways, this has been the subject of the debate, which is why we do not let them drive 100 km/h. Then we get the ultimate flow, then we have the same speed. We are prepared to look at this from the left, but there are a number of safety issues we need to investigate. The horror scenario is, after all, when there is a queue on the freeway that holds still, and then there comes a truck from behind where the driver is inattentive and thunders in the back, and then there are five or six passenger cars that are damaged. It is, of course, the horror scenario that unfortunately we sometimes see. But we are prepared to look at it and look at the consequences in close dialogue with the transport industry and the people who know about safety. One of the things that could be imagined if such a system could be introduced is that an automatic braking system is put in the truck so that it automatically slows down if the driver has fallen asleep and there are some cars in front that are holding still. So we are prepared to look at that afterwards. The proposal mentioned by the Danish People's Party that buses and lorries should follow urban traffic so that there will be a good flow, so that we avoid the delays that are taking place, so that we avoid that trucks get stupid fines if they are going to drive 56 km/h. and follow the traffic, we think is a very good proposal. I think that we should give thorough and positive treatment to the committee procedure and have looked at this, because it is common sense in my world that lorries should be allowed to follow urban traffic. I think that would be an advantage for all of us and an advantage for road safety. To sum up, this bill will increase the mobility of campers and traders, and it will improve accessibility on the roads without neglecting road safety considerations. I note, among other things, that 3F, ITD, DTL, the Council for Safe Transport and the Transport Group are generally positive about the proposal to increase speed and thereby ensure better traffic flow. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115104316	Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115104318	Yes, but on the other hand, the National Police Department, DTU and traffic researchers at Aarhus University are respectively very concerned or directly opposed to the bill. So that's how you can set it up. This is really disturbing, because now I understand that there is a common break that the next thing we see is that the trucks are about to drive 100 km/h. on the motorways. And the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, points out that it needs to be dealt with by technology and that there has been technological development, not only in relation to trucks, but also in relation to passenger cars, and that we have got better roads. And that is all very well, but why not collect the benefit of this development in terms of better road safety? Higher speed and we agree on that, after all, is moving in the other direction. Why, if I may say so, compensate negatively for the good technical development that has been achieved, in relation to cars and, for that matter, lorries, in relation to the fact that we have got better roads?
ParlaMint-DK_20160115104422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115104424	When we talk about transport, there are two important factors. One is mobility, that we have a society that has good and high mobility. Enhedslisten has not been so concerned about this, at least not when it comes to what is happening on asphalt. The second factor is, of course, road safety. And the two things must go hand in hand; it must always be a balanced approach. And I did not stand here and say that boom, now we are introducing speed 100 for trucks; I just said that we are prepared to discuss it with the industry and have the road safety consequences drilled out. And if it is the case that new technology can make us feel better in traffic and that we get the effect that in the inner track is the normal speed of 90-100 km/h, then maybe it could be a really big gain for road safety. I don't know, and I don't want to stand here and be sure, but I just think it deserves a closer look in the future, and I can hear that more parties, including the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party, are also prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115104523	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115104524	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen basically agrees with me that speed kills that high speed everything else equal means more serious accidents, more dead, more injured. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160115104543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115104544	Well, speed kills, it's clear, especially if you drive crazy and break speed limits, etc. But that is not what we are talking about here. Here we are talking about establishing sensible speed limits, balancing the issue of mobility with regard to road safety. So with regard to the mantra that speed kills, I would say that everything else is equal, but it is on the basis of what situation it is in. And a great many of the accidents in which speed kills happen because some people drive their heads under their arms, completely reckless to other people. But that is not what we are talking about here. Here we are talking about fixing conditions for our road network and creating reasonable speed limits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115104620	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115104640	We could, of course, believe, in the exchange that has taken place earlier today between the Social Democrat rapporteur and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and, for that matter, also the rapporteur of the Left now, that it was actually quite unnecessary to put forward this bill, because no one really wants to take advantage of it for why, and there is no rationality in that. It was just before you could believe it based on what was said that I do not have the confidence of truck drivers or campers driving caravans, etc. etc. I think this is a really disturbing proposal, but it is not surprising; the right wing has been pushing for a long time to get through at a higher speed in a whole range of fields, and just around the corner is waiting for an increase in the speed limit on motor routes to 100 km/h. It has already been mentioned that the speed limit for trucks in cities of 50 km/h has already been mentioned. today must be increased where it is permitted for passenger cars to drive 60 or 70 km/h. It will then have to wait for 2016, because some problems have arisen in this regard... otherwise it would have been part of the bill. This then follows the increase in the speed limit for Tempo 100 buses on our motorways, and soon we will also see a proposal to increase the speed limit on roads to 90 km/h. That is, of course, only where it is properly understood. And, as the debate has shown, we will also soon see a proposal to increase the speed limit for trucks, Tempo 100 trucks, to 100 km/h. on our motorways. After all, the Danish People's Party is pushing very hard to increase the speed limit on motorways for passenger cars in many of the places where you can drive only 110 km/h today, at least if you are to believe the many questions that Mr. Kim Christiansen has been addressing the Minister of Transport lately. Just around the corner is also waiting for a reduction in age to take a driving licence for car and for small mopeds. It is in fact and indeed a disturbing development that is taking place here at a time when the pace is actually falling, and it is doing so as a result of an increase in the pressure of control, the many photocars that have come onto the street and which the Left and not least the Danish People's Party hate, but which, after all, have proved their worth. As a result, 2015 has become another good year for road safety in terms of the number of people killed and injured. Nevertheless, the majority chooses to compensate, if I may say so, the negatives that I mentioned for the good development that has come about due to increased control pressure: safer cars, better and safer roads. But it's the Speed killer! I have said so many times from this platform: the higher the speed, the more dead and the more seriously injured. For all the accidents, if the Minister of Justice is to be believed, the pressure of control is now relaxed. The target figures are scrapped and they are not replaced by new and other target figures for the time being. The money machine is pulled by the barn again as an argument, and it is a little interesting to see that those law and order parties that we have do not think that law and order in this very area should apply. It must be the case that there should not be a real risk of being caught in a speed check. Although the police are currently under heavy pressure, the bill here imposes new burdens, including financial ones, and this is very clear from the reply from the National Police, to which I do not think the Ministry of Transport responds very convincingly. Enhedslisten disputes the whole purpose of the bill. Is it to increase mobility and improve the availability of campers on their way on or from holidays really a real need? We do not think so. The argument is then, as we have mentioned in the debate that has taken place, that it provides a better flow of traffic. This is, in our best opinion, nonsense. Now, as I have said, we are getting more slow-moving in the second lanes of motorways, with more braking and accelerations resulting in passenger cars running 110-130 km/h. That is also what is very clear from the answer from the Kingdom Police, which makes a lot of sense here. Then there are the consultation answers from DTU Transport and the Transport Research Group at Aalborg University, which simply says: Higher speed causes more accidents, and more lane changes also cause more accidents. There are no research-based results in favour of the bill. Slinger, of which there will be more, is a prominent accident situation, and it is increasing as the pace goes, leading to more accidents. I understand that Germany has become the very big thing, and I am hurrying to finish my role model, and that is despite the fact that they do not rank over Denmark in the top five or top ten that are being made. So why Germany has now gone and become the great example, I do not understand, but it was perhaps worth examining what it really is that they are doing better than us, because I do not believe they are doing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105217	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Kim Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105220	Thank you. What tripped me a little was sir. Henning Hyllested's comment that Dansk Folkeparti is pushing heavily to get the speeds up on some highway sections. What I have asked in all modesty about is that the viewers out there do not have to have a completely wrong impression of the position of the Danish People's Party. The fact is that new motorways and new highway sections are being built, extensions are being made on long stretches from 2 to 3 tracks or from 4 to 6, if you want to build safer roads. And then I am so surprised that the Road Directorate and the police choose to separate them down to 110 km/h. I think that is a strange agenda and that is why I have asked these questions. Well, then, sir. Henning Hyllested agree or disagree. But what I really wanted to ask you is this thing about the speed killing. Yeah, it does, but did Mr. Knox? Henning Hyllested any figures on how much has been done in the fatal accidents which have been fortunately the lowest number ever? Did Mr. Henning Hyllested figures on how many of the fatal accidents have been within the speed limit that has been signposted on the site or applied on the site, and how many of them are caused by excessive speed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105337	I can clearly not know what is the Danish People's Party or Mr. Kim Christiansen's reason for asking the many questions about the speed of our motorways, i.e. from 110 km/h. to 130 km/h. I was just sitting with the question: why do you ask so much about it if it is not for the purpose of raising the speed limit from the 110 km/h? to the 130 km/h. Many more places than can be done today? But okay, of course I can't know that. It was just the feeling I was left with. I can only say that the Road Directorate can almost say again again in their very recent study very clearly points out that speed plays a crucial role in half of the fatal accidents we are seeing on the Danish roads today. That is enough for me to say that speed plays a very, very important role. I do not have any figures as to whether the speed limits have been exceeded in those cases I do not think so, but I do not have any figures on that. Of course, it must be possible to determine whether this has been the case. I don't know if you know that in the Road Directorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105449	There is no desire for further brief comments. We thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. And then it's the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105458	Thank you. I am not going to prolong the debate on increasing the speed limits for campers and businessmen so that we can increase mobility and accessibility on the roads. If it does not seem to have road safety implications, as described in the German Tempo 100 scheme, then it will probably also work in Denmark. I read that precisely the technical requirements can be met, for example. the risk of trailers getting into slings when driving stronger. That is an important point, and I think we should start from that. Everyone knows, of course, how annoying it is that caravans and others with connected trailers stop the flow of traffic because they drive very slowly on motorways. It is not always in the interests of safety. We think it is a good proposal and we are happy to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105552	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105555	I am sorry, but when the rapporteur says that it is annoying to lie behind caravans that, like stop traffic, I have to say: well, that is not the case. Caravans and trailers run today in the first track 80 km/h. together with all the trucks that are also lying there, and after all, they are the ones that lie most of all. They're not gonna stop anything. All of us driving 110 km/h. 130 km/h respectively, is in the second track and overtakes. What's going on with this bill is that we get those Tempo 100 caravans and trailers out on other tracks on a much larger scale than the current rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105643	Or you could have the assumption that we achieve far fewer of the slightly annoying overtakes if you can drive a little stronger in the first row. There are a great many of these measures that are obviously due to the fact that you can't get up at the pace you want to, and when you can't, you have to overtake. If you can drive a little bit stronger, it may be that we get a little less driving out and in between the different lanes. That is, in principle, my assumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105709	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105711	Yeah, but I guess that's assuming that the trucks will get up in a hurry, too. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense. Then Tempo's going to have 100 caravans and trailers overtaking the trucks. That is what is happening, and it gives many more dangerous delays, because lying and overtaking with a caravan or trailer is unequally dangerous. So that really presupposes that, but it is also announced by other parties today, and perhaps the Liberal Alliance agrees that the trucks will also be speeded up to 100 km/h.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105744	We do not assume that you always drive exactly and exactly up to the speed limit. We're assuming you're going according to the circumstances. And if there are a little higher limits, you can drive even more according to the conditions, and this may provide the most flexible traffic flow.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105802	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. Nikolai Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115105807	Thank you. As a starting point, in the alternative, we are not very much in favour of raising speed limits. There are several reasons for this, above all an increased safety risk. And then we have also noted that the change that comes in CO2 we are rather sorry about. However, despite the fact that this proposal is, as a starting point, about increasing specific speed limits for trailers and agricultural vehicles, it also contains some safety-enhancing elements which have not been so much talked about. The labelling system described contains a check of the vehicle combination every two years, and in particular the action to which a safety-enhancing element is very positive. Then it is stated by some that greater speediness will contribute to smoother traffic flow. I understand that there is not a complete consensus on that. I'm sorry, sir, but I don't have the same thing as sir. Rasmus Prehn first-hand knowledge of biting the steering wheel. I do not have a driving licence, so I have had to rely on a hearing answer and what my colleagues have said in the Chamber. And there are some critical consultation responses that point to a greater safety risk. It could be called a sledgehammer risk and, at the risk of being accused of doing the same politically, we would like to give conditional support to this. But we hope to be much wiser both on the sling risk and on the possible increase in emissions in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115110002	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115110022	This speeding up is not something you have to do just for fun, because of course it is one of the factors that kills people on the roads. On the other hand, we in the Radical Left do not think that we should be as vicious as we are, for example. Enhedslisten is today. This bill makes it possible to drive 100 km/h. with caravans and trailers on motorways and 80 km/h. on roads. And then tractors are allowed to drive 10 km/h. extra. But what I do not think has been fully up in the debate yet, not enough at least, is that you will only be allowed to do so with trailers or caravans if you have approved the trailer or caravan for it. This means that as the owner of a caravan or trailer you must have the caravan or trailer checked once more, also regularly if you want to continue to have the permit to drive 100 km/h. This alone will increase road safety quite considerably from our point of view, because it provides an incentive for the owners of trailers and caravans to perhaps buy a new one or refurbished the one they have in a way that will allow them to run this extra. That means we can get some of these old caravans and trailers out of here or at least get them improved. Actually, I think it's a really good idea to get it done. I think that will increase road safety. If you look at the effects on the roads and when you talk highways, trailers and caravans will be able to drive the same thing as passenger cars. And all the other things will mean that you do not get so many overtakes on roads where it is really dangerous, because you have to pass over and overtake in the roadway where there can be oncoming traffic as opposed to on motorways where, as you know, there are two lanes in each direction. On motorways, we already feel that buses are allowed to drive 100 km/h, and now caravans and trailers come up on it. So no matter what, we're going to have different speeds on motorways, 80 km/h. for trucks, 100 km/h. for passenger cars. So we are very close to the consultation answers, including from the Safe Transport Council, which actually says that there will be fewer delays here, I think they are thinking a lot about highways and that it will generally increase road safety. And then it gives some opportunities for those who drive trailers and caravans to be able to speed up a little if they have a modern, newly-visioned caravan that has been approved for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115110255	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Radical Left. And then it's the rapporteur for the SF, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115110303	It is good that the number of people killed in traffic is going the right way, but the speed continues to kill. The good development is due to a large number of initiatives ranging from campaigns to speed control, but there is still a long way to go. I understand the desire to be able to drive faster, but as it seems today, this is just a step on the road towards giving the lorries new speed limits. I think the perspective is scary. After all, the recommendations made by several competent parties also indicate that we must maintain the current speed limits. DTU Transport writes to us that the speed limit should not be raised from the current 80 km/h. to 100 km/h, with half of the accidents involving caravans during the period 2009-2013 taking place on motorways and the situation of the caravan in slings being a major accident in this regard. The Transport Research Group at Aalborg University also writes that higher speed causes accidents and that it can be assumed that three different speed limits give more lane changes and/or greater spread in speeds, which will also increase the risk of more accidents. We have also seen that the National Police have expressed great scepticism about this bill. I think it must be concluded that if you are going on holiday with your caravan, road safety must be above the desire to drive Zulu Devil's Race towards the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115110502	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115110507	Conservatives can support the bill. We think it is a good idea to raise the speed limits for some selected groups of road users, taking into account that vehicles should be suitable for this. That's what we're doing with this bill. We give, among other things. caravans and tractors are able to drive a little faster, but in the case of caravans it is the case that they have to have a Tempo 100 approval, and therefore it requires that the vehicle is in a condition where it is considered safe that it is running at that speed. I feel a little opposite to several of the rapporteurs who have been up here, for example the radical rapporteur, namely that speed limits should not be kept down just for fun. I have such a general approach to legislation that there must be a reason for having legislation. There must be a reason to restrict citizens from doing what they want to do. You shouldn't just put some restrictions on what people have to do just because you think it's funny. There must be a reason to believe that it would be problematic for vehicles to drive a little faster before banning it. In this case, I am not convinced that there should be any road safety problem by letting caravans whose vehicles are considered to be in a good condition drive 100 km/h. on the roads, like a large number of other vehicles do. We have experience from Germany to draw on and they say that when they did the same, there was no increase in the number of accidents. We also have good experience of the time when we raised the speed limit for buses in Denmark, which has also not led to an increase in the number of accidents. The benefits are to be seen. Of course, it is nice for citizens to be able to come forward a little faster. It is also nice for the others who are on the roads that there are no rocks on the road, which they must lie around and drive around that it almost feels like when you have to overtake road users who drive very, very slowly. The same considerations also apply, of course, to tractors and the other vehicles, for which we are raising the speed limit a little too with the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115110725	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's the Minister of Transport and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115110732	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the positive reception this bill has received. I think it is gratifying that, with the proposed arrangements, we can meet a wish which has been felt for a long time by the camping industry and agriculture in particular, with the Tempo 100 scheme for passenger cars with caravans or trailers and the scheme for tractors. The proposed authorisation schemes strengthen the mobility of campers, traders and agriculture without compromising road safety. I look forward to further consideration here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, I am at your disposal to answer any questions that may arise in this connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115110814	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115110819	After all, the Ministry of Transport is well known for sticking to the expertise, if I may say so, in this area. Does it not concern the Minister of Transport at all what they might call the expertise in this country? Traffic researchers, both at DTU and at Aalborg University, directly recommend that the bill does not benefit, and the National Police say overall that you do not turn against the proposal, but I think you can say that it is then included in their consultation answer, where they draw attention to a whole series of problematic issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115110902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115110905	I have seen the basic view that either you turn against a proposal or you do not turn against it. Well, I'm not quite sure how to do both. So I note that the National Police writes: we do not oppose the proposal negatively. Then I have noted that there are researchers who are out to say: if we sit and assess, we know how we see it going to work. I am, of course, listening to that, but I am still surprised that no one is impressed by the fact that Germany has been doing this for 17 years without causing any more road accidents. It's like they say it's out in the real world, so you can't bring it. Well, it's gotta be something about what you're sitting there calculating yourself up to, or what you think or something. What has really happened cannot be used as a basis for this. Isn't that something that's bothering you at all, sir? Henning Hylllested, who often talks about getting out into the real world? It has been in Germany for 17 years and has not led to any more accidents. It may well be that the same thing happened in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111005	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111010	Germany now ranks no higher than Denmark in the ratings that are made; on the contrary, Denmark is no higher than Denmark. 5, and Germany is, I don't know just where, but a piece below us. And as I have also understood in terms of both consultation answers and so on, there is not much foreign experience in this area. But it is true that there is some experience from Germany, which I also think it would be worth examining a little more closely than just knowing that it has worked in Germany: how high is the level of accident in Germany? Where did you come from 17 years ago, etc. etc.? With regard to the matter with the National Police, I would just like to say that, although they do not object to the bill, they do draw attention to exactly the same problems as the traffic researchers at DTU and Aalborg University, namely that there will be more lane changes, more speeds, and that this will lead to more accidents.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111101	Well, I note that it is true that scientists write that we will now have three speeds. I just want to point out that we have that today. Well, we do today. Well, there's nothing new in it. We have 130 km/h, we have 100 km/h, and we have 80 km/h. Some would say that we have 110 km/h because it parted in some situations. But you have three fixed speeds, and we will have that after we have adopted this bill. That's why I'm just saying, let's see how this works. However, experience often leads you to the best results.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111139	Sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111143	Thank you. That's in relation to the traffic of trucks in the cities. After all, the Minister speaks a lot about the fact that we must, of course, lean on the years of experience, among other things. in Germany. I am then surprised, as the Minister indicates in the consultation note, that the possibility of having trucks follow signs inside urban areas will be assessed in more detail. This will be assessed here in 2016. Now Denmark is virtually the only country where this rule applies, so there has actually been enough opportunity to draw on some experience from Norway, Sweden, Germany and other European countries, as has been the case with the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111226	I think, in fact, that the rapporteur quotes this very correctly and loyally, namely that this is something we would like to look at in 2016. What is the problem is that when you drive inside a city and there is a very dense traffic, we know that at the speeds if it is 60 km/h. or 50 km/h, there's even a significantly longer brake length for these heavy vehicles. But I do not wish to deny today that one can also say that well there are also some advantages to it, because if people now follow the traffic... if the flow is there... it may help to avoid so many dangerous situations. So, I would like to say to the rapporteur: an open door is being kicked in with me, because I would very much like to look through this. I just want a little more safe ground under my feet before I go any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111311	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111314	Well, I'm glad I'm kicking in an open door. I would have liked to be able to unpick the door completely when we come up with this amendment. For what is it you don't know? If, in so many other contexts, you are going abroad, you must also be able to see in this case whether there have been road safety problems abroad, for example, by allowing lorries to follow the signs. It must be very easy to find out, so you don't have to make big, chromed solutions. And the police have already made an assessment when they sign up on, for example. a four-track ring road saying that here it is safe to drive 60 km/h. or 70 km/h. Then the road safety assessment must have been carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111357	I think that we could continue the debate here, and there is often something fruitful coming out of talking to Mr Beazley. Kim Christiansen, so that's good. But what I just want to say to that is that where some have raised the flag, they have said that we have to go in and look at how much and what it means weighed up against us getting a flow that was better and how big these accidents would be... how much is it we're talking about? So that's only what does it. I just want to do some research on those things. I believe that the study that is to be carried out will also live up to the fact that Mr. Kim Christiansen can evaluate it afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111436	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111457	The debate is open, and we start with the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Erik Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111505	The purpose of the bill is to repeal a number of provisions of the DSB Act. This applies, on the one hand, to the repeal of some provisions which, with the dissolution of DSB S-tog A/S, are no longer of practical importance. the provision on separate financial information relating to DSB S-tog is repealed, on the one hand, to align the rules of the Civil Service Act with the case-law of the Supreme Court in 2012. The previous government also had this bill on its programme, but because of the elections it was not put forward. The aim of the bill is to provide DSB with the same opportunities as other public companies in the process of renewing the company. DSB must therefore be able to offer tasks to private companies using DSB's own employees in return for payment. With the adoption of this bill, DSB will be able to lend employees against payment in any future tender, but of course this must be done in respect of employees' rights as described in the Civil Service Act. So in other words, we need to find the right balance between giving DSB opportunities for the renewal of the company and securing the civil servants employed. The Danish Railway Federation's response indicates that it is required to clarify all the criteria that must be met in order for an official to be obliged to lend to another undertaking. It will probably not be possible to describe all the possibilities or details of a possible loan of civil servants, but in connection with the work of the committee, the Socialists would like to help clarify some of the problems raised by the Danish Railway Federation in their consultation responses. With those comments, I can inform you that the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111644	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111649	Now I would like to say that, with the latter, as the rapporteur says, I am a little more confident and that perhaps I was a little quick on the keys. For I have also noticed the hearing from the Danish Railway Federation and from the Public Employees' Organisations, which clearly points out that they do not in fact believe that the Civil Service Act provides the same protection as DSB officials currently enjoy by renting out to a private company.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111718	That is absolutely correct. That is also what I referred to in my final remarks, and that is also what we would like to look at further when we go to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111723	There is no desire for further short remarks, and I thank the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111730	I shall be very brief: we think in the Danish People's Party, it is a quite sensible bill. Now all we have to do is get some invitations to tender to make use of this loan from civil servants. I think it might benefit, among other things. the entire Danish rail sector that we got some of the tenders. So we are waiting for them so that we can also have the opportunity to lend some of these officials. There is another point in the draft law that really concerns me more. As we all know, we helped to change it, so that we actually laid down DSB S-tog A/S and placed it under DSB, and it was probably a small rescue operation in relation to DSB's overall economy. When we did so, it was at least one of the explicit demands I had then that these segment accounts were precisely held so that we could still keep up with what was S-train's economy and what was DSB's other economy, so that we did not get any confusion about it. If I read this correctly, it is possible that I am wrong, and we will have that established during the committee procedure, then you will be doing it in a new way. But I hope that this will not help to remove the segment accounts from DSB S trains, and that it will then be put in and somehow stored inside DSB. At least I'm gonna be very obsessed that we don't get that. It is important, I think, that we have an overview of the different parts of DSB's economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111912	Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111915	There is no doubt that the Dansk Folkeparti has been pushing for many years to get a call for the services of DSB at all levels and everywhere. Is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kim Christiansen, in this regard, is not concerned at all with the civil servants who work at DSB today and what future they will be offered and the protection they may have?
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111944	We are absolutely concerned about that, and I sense that this bill ensures that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115111948	Sir. Henning Hylllested? He does not want any further comments, and so we thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115112000	The purpose of the bill here is to make the provisions of the DSB Act more up-to-date so that DSB will be able to lend civil servants to private companies. This is done with a view to bringing the DSB Act into line with the rules of the Civil Service Act, but also with the case law that follows a Supreme Court ruling of 2012. The civil servants of DSB are, by their very nature, covered by civil servants' legislation, and they will continue to be in a situation where they may be lent to a private undertaking. The persons concerned continue to be employed in DSB, but can be lent to a private company under defined conditions, such as: ensure the maintenance of civil servants' rights. The employees concerned will continue to be entitled to the same salary and work, i.e. the same type of work. This will be reflected in a written agreement between DSB and the private company defining the terms and conditions of the loan to the employees. What is crucial here is that the rights of civil servants are not lost, as DSB is then obliged to accept. With this bill, I would also like to say that we are facilitating the transition to more competition on the ground. This is something that the Left is concerned with, we have never concealed, and I look forward to, from 2020 onwards, really getting more competition going, for the benefit of both the Danish rail passengers and the taxpayers. So all in all, this is a good bill that the Left can support. And we have taken note of the concerns of the Danish Railway Federation, but they must of course be bored out and answered during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115112203	Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115112206	Then I would like to hear what some reflections have been made on the responses from the Danish Railway Federation and OAO. One thing is the Civil Service Act and the Supreme Court ruling that has fallen in this area; another is the protection that is currently enjoyed by civil servants of the DSB. According to the Danish Railway Federation and also OAO, there is at least a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115112232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115112236	But what is important is also what the draft law says, namely that their fundamental rights as civil servants are carried over. What the rights will be more precisely will depend on the situation in question. What kind of company are they to be transferred to? What exactly are they supposed to do? But the fundamental rights of civil servants are guaranteed by this, and I think that is absolutely central.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115112256	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115112259	Yes, fundamental rights. But like I said, there's a difference. It is therefore an employee group which goes from one situation to another if they are lent to another company. I note that the rapporteur also did in his rapporteur's speech that it is, after all, DSB that has to enter into agreements with the company to which the civil servants of DSB are to be hired. After all, there is no guarantee whatsoever that officials will be consulted, I think. And, as you know, the trust between DSB and DSB's employees is at present at the bottom. What is it that is suggesting that the officials should be taken into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20160115112339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115112342	I would regard it as a natural part of modern management that when such a situation arises where one has to lend employees, one obviously involves the employees in a discussion. But it is not the case that some people have a right of veto; it is an interaction and cooperation that I think is quite natural. I have noted that when tasks were entrusted to North Jutland Railways, perhaps there was not quite as much involvement as one might have wanted. But involvement in my world is part of modern corporate governance, and that is not something we need to legislate precisely about. So I think this law is the perfect framework for this future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115112415	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115112435	One is so concerned about asking and taking part in the debate that one completely forgets when it is one's own turn. It is quite obvious that the DSB Act must of course be amended in that DSB S-train has ceased to be a public limited company and is now part of DSB SOV. I have to say that I could imagine that there should be an editing of the existing law where S-trains are written out of the law. But I must also say that I think the Ministry of Transport slashed the DSB question mark! The editorial amendment which I had imagined would be made to these paragraphs will now be left entirely to the civil servants' legislation and to the interpretation of it in the form of inter alia. a Supreme Court ruling. Moreover, the judgment was given under some very specific conditions for some municipal officials at Fynbus applying to a workshop, so it must be assumed that it is mechanics that are involved. The Ministry of Transport argues that this creates uncertainty... you have to understand almost conflict... if the DSB Act contains some civil service provisions and they are at the same time contained in the Civil Service Act, but why so? In practice, therefore, it is really a question of extending the protection provided by the Civil Service Act in relation to what can be offered by invitations to tender and loans to other companies if you have some additional provisions in the DSB Act. It is not enough, in my opinion, that wages and pensions are guaranteed; many other conditions are also really involved, and you can find out about them by reading the answers from the Danish Railway Federation and the Public Employees' Organisation respectively. Is it now so wrong that the protection provided by the DSB law will be extended today? After all, we are living in very changing times, and there is no doubt that DSB will sooner or later face very major changes in terms of supply and also changes in the organisation. Does it do so much that we are trying to create a little security for those who make sure that trains run on time every day, i.e. train drivers and train officers, traffic control staff, administrative staff, and what are these 7,000 employees who are in DSB all called? Let me just remind you that the employees of DSB have had to bear the greatest burden on the recovery of the economy in DSB, which was, after all, sorry for the term "derailed" in the years ahead, namely through a healthy DSB, which meant that in a very short period of time, within well over a year, there were between 1,000 and 1,200 fewer employees. It is also a fact that trust between DSB and staff is at the bottom of it shows the staff surveys carried out in DSB and I do not think we should contribute to digging the ditches any deeper. As regards the question of uncertainty raised by the Ministry of Transport, I note, of course, the Danish Railway Federation's response to the hearing, which states that the repeal of Article 15 really serves to create uncertainty about the legal status of civil servants. I also note that DSB has chosen almost wisely not to comment on the repeal of paragraphs 15, 15a and 15b of its hearing reply. Indeed, I believe that the consultation note of the Ministry of Transport, or the comments made by the Ministry of Transport in the consultation note, would appear as a party contribution in favour of DSB so easily. I believe that there would be a very, very small difference between the comments made by the Ministry of Transport and the DSB's hearing response in such a case. The unitary list will present amendments to the committee's work which will take into account and reassure the civil servants of the DSB. Should we not get through with those amendments, we will have to vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115112915	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And then it's the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115112922	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance believes that we will have the richest society if we have a flexible labour market. In the near future, when we are going to discuss how to put out some of DSB's main lines, it is of course not going to help anything to have a sticky civil service system that goes in and becomes the decisive obstacle to these important steps. We recognise, of course, that we must maintain our existing conditions, but it cannot be the case that just because there is DSB on the pay slip, we must be treated quite differently from other civil servants in the public sector. Let us put an end to these particular concerns and adopt this bill quickly; perhaps this should have happened a long time ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113016	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Nicolaj Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113030	Thank you. As a starting point, we have no comments on the part of the proposal relating to DSB's S-train. We have been considering the part dealing with the conditions governing the lending of officials. As a starting point, of course, we believe that the employee's legal status in an employment relationship should not be impaired by such a loan. And having taken into account the draft law's comments on the intention of the law and the critical consultation responses from the Danish Railway Federation and OAO, we have come to support this proposal. We believe that there are good reasons for updating and simplifying the law and for bringing together the regulation of civil servants in one place and allowing the law to reflect the case law following the Supreme Court ruling. In addition, we believe that, in connection with the submission and description of the Supreme Court judgment, sufficient clarity has been created as regards both the intention of the law and, above all, the legal status of civil servants for such a loan. Thus, according to the Civil Service Act and in line with the case law, the seconded officials maintain their civil servants' employment, their pay and pension conditions and, in fact, all other relevant matters. We therefore believe that sufficient consideration has been given to officials and that the law will be made more flexible by this amendment of the law, which is why, as I said, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113153	For the time being, someone has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113156	I just need to be absolutely sure of what Mr. Kim is doing. Nicolaj Amstrup said. I think I heard the rapporteur say that the alternative would support the draft law with reference to the hearing from the OAO, but they are precisely recommending that we do not adopt the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113216	What I said was that we had taken into account the comments of the draft law and the intention of the law and that we had taken into account the critical consultation responses and, in relation to the balance we have found in it, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113230	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113240	If you read the consultation note and the answers given by the Minister for Transport and Building and the Ministry of Transport and Building, you can see that it is quite clear that this bill will not change working conditions such as salaries, pensions and everything else for civil servants. We in the Radical Left think that is absolutely crucial here. And we also think it's a good idea, and it was also mentioned by the Alternative's rapporteur, to show due diligence and update this law so that it fits with the ruling that has been in the Supreme Court, and at least simplify this area. For the most important thing for the civil servants who are in DSB and elsewhere must of course be that the government which sits complies with the civil servants' legislation and the benefits and rules contained therein. So we can support the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113339	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113344	The rapporteur says that wages and pensions and everything else have been secured. But if you take the hearing answer from OAO, that is not the case, to say the least. Because an official's appointment at DSB includes a whole lot of other things. Allow me to read from the hearing answer:.. Are all these matters covered by the Civil Service Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113443	I do not think they all are, but I also think it was a long list, so if Mr. Henning Hyllested wants the correct answer, I think that Mr. Henning Hyllested and Enhedslisten have to ask the minister the question. I just note that the answers given by the Ministry of Transport and Building are that if you look at the right to, for example. If you do not reduce your salary, the right to save your pension and the right to a civil servant's pension, that will certainly not be changed. I think it's pretty important that the Ministry goes in and guarantees as they write it in the answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113519	There is a further brief comment from Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113524	There is no doubt that wage and pension conditions play a huge role, but when I mention this whole range of things, it is precisely to make it clear that being a civil servant and there is a difference between business and business that involves a great many other things. After all, to some extent, this is about creating security for those who are currently employed, those who have been dragged, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, by restoring DSB's economy, and those who are now basically threatened by the forthcoming supply and major changes in DSB.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113605	I do not agree that they are a threatened people. You could say that maybe they are, at least that's what we think is most important.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113625	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113634	The bill is based on a decision by the Supreme Court, but the question is, is it even holding water in this matter? After all, the Supreme Court ruling is about some specific matters in the municipal civil service area. The judgment has been delivered under very special conditions and, according to several hearings, cannot be directly transferred to DSB officials. The current legislation does not prevent the voluntary lending of civil servants through individual agreements. SF is very concerned about the security and protection of DSB officials in relation to loans to private companies. There is already a tradition of framework agreements for voluntary lending agreements which each official can then agree to through an individual agreement. After all, the public sector is living a changing life with constant reorganisations, and this places great demands on flexibility on the part of employees. Security is the best foundation for people to be positive about entering new work situations. Unfortunately, this bill will touch on the safety of civil servants. We will take a very positive view of the amendments that come from the Enhedslisten, and unless this will lead to a fundamental amendment of the bill, the SF will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113824	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113830	Conservatives can support the bill. I do not think that this is going to go down in history as one of the most controversial legislative proposals. This is a technical amendment to some legislation, so that civil servants in DSB will have the same conditions as other civil servants. We think this is quite reasonable and, in fact, rather uncontroversial. We don't share this fear that you're going to get another employer. We do not have the idea here that working for the public is the best thing in the world. So in this context we see no great danger to the employees of DSB.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113915	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Transport and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115113921	Thank you to the rapporteurs for their contributions. I would like to summarise the background to the draft law, because I think that although the debate has been intense and committed, it was perhaps also with a few angles that I would like to say at least how I look at. The main purpose of the amendment is to bring the DSB Act into line with civil servants' legislation. It is therefore the main purpose of the DSB Act to be brought into line with civil servants' legislation. The background is a 2012 Supreme Court ruling and the case law on which it is based. After this, it is possible to commit officials to loans, even to undertakings not owned by the public authorities. It can, for example, be done. become relevant in situations where DSB wishes a private company to carry out tasks on behalf of DSB, but using DSB's employees to date. However, some precise rules for lending to it are even very precise. For example: loans can only be made if each official retains the previous wage and pension conditions, and it is the public undertaking which is responsible for the loan, and in this case DSB is responsible for it. However, according to the current wording of the DSB Act, the possibility of lending is not possible in the case of loans to a privately owned company. The official may object to the loan, even if his salary and pension conditions remain unchanged. This is because the preparatory work states that DSB cannot lend officials to companies which are not a subsidiary of DSB. I can therefore now see that the legal situation described in the preparatory work for §15 (1) is now established. 1, in the DSB Act, is not in line with the Supreme Court judgment and the case law on which the judgment is based. That is what we need here. So, the DSB Act is not in line with the case law on which the Supreme Court judgment is based. With this amendment of the law, we are now correcting it so that officials can be lent to other companies, but among other things. on condition that they maintain their current wage and pension conditions. I heard that there were several rapporteurs, and I quite rightly thought that they were concerned about the salary and pension conditions of civil servants. One has to remember, and this is a little in contrast to what one rapporteur said, that what is now happening is that there is equality between civil servants in the state and civil servants in the DSB. It is perfectly legal if you say that you cannot support it here, but it can only be interpreted in such a way that you do not want there to be any agreement between civil servants in the state and civil servants in the DSB. I would just like to say that, if that is the case, I think we should have a discussion on this, because I hope that we all think that there should be a level playing field for government officials. In any case, I believe that this should be the case. I would like to stress, because I am aware that I will have questions about the fact that the purpose of the amendment is not to place the civil servants in DSB at a disadvantage compared to other civil servants in the public sector. And I can already warn you that I am going to say the same thing; it's just that nobody thinks otherwise, because when we go into it like this, this has filled something when you have to debate this and when you have to prepare it. So I would like to say right now, if anyone is trying to say that this means that we are putting DSB officials lower than other civil servants in the state, that this is not going to happen. On the other hand, there is equality. It is therefore merely a question of removing a special rule so that civil servants in DSB are treated on an equal footing with civil servants elsewhere within the State and the municipality. Furthermore, the amendment of the law entails the repeal of a provision of the DSB Act requiring the incorporation of segment information from DSB S train into DSB's annual accounts. The provision refers to the Financial Statements Act, but the rules governing the provision of segment information in the Financial Statements Act have, however, been amended so that this law no longer requires segment information of the type of companies to which DSB belongs in the accounting sense. That's what's called D companies. I'm sure this is very technical, and that's probably why we haven't really been around it. But it's just to say it's there. The current provision is therefore not meaningful and it is therefore proposed that it be repealed. However, I would just like to say that in any case, the public will be able to follow the economy of DSB S-train, which is also mentioned in the draft law. With these comments, I would just like to recommend the draft law to the kind treatment of things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115114458	There is, for the time being, one brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115114501	I fully agree with the Minister that this is, of course, a matter of putting DSB officials on the same footing with other officials, but it is going to appear to be a deterioration if we can see in the DSB Act, and we can see that DSB officials may have better conditions. After all, these are conditions that the Danish Railway Federation has negotiated over time and which have been incorporated into the DSB Act. In any case, however you turn and turn it, it will appear to be a deterioration, so that what you call your conditions, which you may have sympathy for in some context, in reality means that the conditions of some officials who have better conditions today are reduced. I do not think that it is up to us in the Folketing to begin to regulate the matters which the civil servants' organisations have negotiated, and that is what they are calling attention to here. The DSB Act, the Minister says, must comply with the Civil Service Act, but is there any contradiction in the fact that there are better conditions in the DSB Act than in the Civil Service Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160115114614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115114617	Yes, if you have that view and I must point out that it is the state that owns DSB that civil servants throughout the state should have a level playing field, yes, it is the way to change it here. I also think that the Supreme Court ruling clearly gives the signal. However, I have also heard many rapporteurs express their support for the proposal, and of course I am pleased about that, and I also recognise that some may have a different view, and it is also entirely as it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115114644	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115114648	Well, the Supreme Court ruling, which we are also aware of in our rapporteur's speech, has fallen in a very specific area, and it is about municipal officials, namely people employed in a workshop under FunenBus; as I said, it must be mechanics or whoever it may be, it is in a very specific area. And in the hearings from both the Danish Railway Federation and the OAO, they clearly say that they do not believe that the Supreme Court judgment can simply be transferred to the area of state officials, and certainly not to DSB officials, who may enjoy better protection than other government officials. But why should we object?
ParlaMint-DK_20160115114726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115114729	No, well, now I'm just gonna say, and I understand that Mr. Henning Hyllested also knows, for he has said that what is coming up now is not something that has come up because we have had a change of government. Well, this was something that was already planned. This is the lucky situation you are in when you are a minister, so you can ask for the papers that have been there all the way through. So it is easy to see that it has already been nodded and that it is now being changed because, as the Socialist rapporteur said, there was an election. I mean, that's absolutely right. And I have to say that when it is not in accordance with the judgment there, and that is what is the legal assessment, yes, then we are going to comply with it. But I admit that you can have a different view, and I respect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115114809	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor, and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115114836	This is the position of the Minister for Industry and Growth, who is not in the Chamber. We hope that he will be here very soon, but at least we will open the negotiations. The Minister is not present and we shall postpone the sitting for five minutes. The Minister must be in the Chamber. Okay, so it's the Transport Minister who's covering for the Minister of Industry and Growth. It's a good thing you can help each other. That is why we are not postponing the sitting for five minutes, but are moving forward as planned, and the first in the series of rapporteurs is Mr. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115114925	The draft law L 94, which we are considering first today, is, after all, part of the agreement on strengthened action against tax havens from December 2014. Overall, the bill should make it more difficult to send wealth out of the country into tax havens by providing more and better information about companies, foundations and companies' real owners. It is estimated that between 3 and 5 billion are sent each year. kr. out of the country in direct tax havens. It is actually a rather staggering amount, which is roughly equivalent to what Denmark would be able to build a new supersickness centre for every year. It is therefore a huge loss for the Treasury, but also for the community and welfare throughout Denmark. Not only does the use of tax havens cause a welfare loss, it also affects Danish companies, because when some companies fake the tax payment, it gives them a competitive advantage over the honest companies that do everything according to the book and contribute to the community through tax payments. That is simply not acceptable. We have a political responsibility to guard against such unfair competition so that it is not possible for cynical business owners to evade tax payments. When you operate in Denmark, you have to compete on equal terms. It should not be a race for who is best at avoiding tax payments. It is our job to ensure that the legislation ensures fair competition and that business owners who cheat on the weight of tax payments are exposed. So far, we have to note that the evaders have had too easy a hand, among other things. Because it has been too easy for the real owners of companies and foundations to hide behind opaque company structures. This means that it has been virtually impossible to hold anyone to account for having used tax havens. This proposal obliges companies and foundations and certain associations to obtain and keep information about their real owners. The information must be recorded and published in the Danish Business Authority's IT system, and the change of law is therefore incorporated in the Companies Act, in the Act on certain Business Companies and Fund Law as well as other laws. Failure to register must also be punishable by a fine. At the same time, an amendment to the Central Business Register Act, also known as the Cvr Act, is proposed. The change implies that the legal persons responsible for registering the real owners must also be registered with basic information such as CVR number, corporate form, starting time, address and company name. In fact, this also increases transparency and ensures that it will be much more difficult for legal persons who are real owners to hide behind company structures. This means that it will be easier to bring real owners to account for tax fraud and to punish such crime. In the forthcoming committee work, however, I believe that we should be reasonably aware that we find an appropriate definition of the concept of real owners, so that we ensure that the spirit of the proposal is actually complied with. However, it is also important that we ensure at the same time that we do not expose the country's businesses to unnecessary bureaucracy. Having said that, there is no doubt that the Socialist Group considers the fight against tax havens and the fight to ensure fair competition for Danish companies to be an extremely important task. This is important for the community, but it is also important in the efforts to strengthen growth in Denmark. Denmark is taking this proposal forward in its efforts to get the bucket under those companies which are deliberately trying to evade tax payments. The next step must be that through international cooperation we will have the work spread across Denmark's borders, so that it will be a joint international battle. Against this background, the Socialists can support the proposal and we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115115306	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115115313	If you try to look back just a little in Danish history, you will often find that some very serious examples have been mentioned in the Danish media that there have been companies that have been extreme in their approach to how you could relate or withhold information about the real owners of Danish companies or companies that act in Danish territory. Often we have seen it in cases where there have been deliberate, culpable, tax fraud, circumvention of Danish taxes, circumvention of Danish VAT legislation and everything else. We have also seen it in relation to the general reporting of advance taxes and all sorts of other things. It was therefore also liberating that, after all, we could find a large majority in the Danish Parliament who, in December 2014, could come together on an initiative that would help to combat the scale of, among other things. Tax havens, including, inter alia: the information which companies acting on Danish soil are required to publish either directly or indirectly by making it a register of the Danish Business Authority. There's gonna be a little administrative tightening up here. This also means that there will be a small burden. We must recognise this, but we in the Danish People's Party think that the small burden that comes to the companies that are now required to report the real owners of their companies in more detail than has been done in the past is actually a very good effort. What will be exciting to see then is whether those who have less pure flour in the bag are able to find other shortcuts to get through in terms of the evasion of Danish taxes and taxes. As recently as this week, we have seen very rough examples of this in connection with road self-sweets, for example, where we saw that in the course of zero comma five we could find a Romanian salesman of the newspaper Hus Forbi, who was made director of a Danish registered CVR company. In other words, it is still possible for those who want to commit deliberate financial fraud in Denmark to make it forward-looking as well. Even with much more extensive legislation, gaps will still be found. What then is our task as politicians, such as Parliament, as a legislative assembly, is, of course, to ensure that the ways in which it is done are getting fewer and fewer. And we must do everything we can to do that, including in terms of legislation. Sir. Erik Christensen from the Social Democrats also mentioned this by saying that it is actually very fundamental, because when some companies do it in this way for a staggering amount, it also means that they are actually helping to outperform the honourable Danish companies, who do it based on Danish case law, audit practice, tax practice, Danish VAT rules and everything else. Then you really get out of business on an illegal basis. It is the clear opinion of the Danish People's Party that this bill is at least a step in the right direction. There are different types of ownership if you look at it legally. There are real owners and there are formal owners and there is also a concept of legal owners of companies or parts of companies. However, as I said, the draft law here, which translates the last part of what lies behind the tax havens in the field of business law, is one that we naturally support from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115115648	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115115653	The Left thinks that it is fine if we have attractive tax conditions for our companies, but it has to be something that is agreed in here. I don't want it to be something you serve yourself to. Because, as the two previous speakers have said, this creates an unfair competitive situation, and it must be the case that companies pay the tax they have to pay, the tax that comes from Danish legislation, and lower taxes should not be self-serving. Therefore, those who do so must, of course, know that we are taking the necessary initiatives to stem tax fraud. This was also the reason why, in December 2014, we on the Left concluded an agreement with the then government and virtually all other parties in the Folketing on strengthening efforts against tax havens in the field of business. And the bill that we are now discussing will then translate part of that agreement. Basically, the legislative proposal is about implementing the EU's fourth money laundering directive, which aims to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. We are actually doing this in a very close manner. We are following the things agreed in the European Union and it is wise that we do not make a special Danish version that makes it more troublesome and difficult, but of course we live up to what we have agreed, because it serves a good purpose. We then make, as we have agreed, a single change to the register in which the real owners are to be registered, and we leave that open, so it is possible to look at some of those, as others have described them, delicate company structures a little extra in the cards. And we really have easier opportunities to see who actually is behind the companies in question, so that it is not creativity in company structures and everything else that allows one to hide one's true identity. It makes very good sense for us to ensure that there are common rules of the game, so that it becomes the ability of companies to run businesses and to be skilled, that is crucial, and not who has found an exciting tax detail that makes them more competitive than others. As mentioned in both the agreement and in the past, the estimate is that it amounts to about 3-5 billion. kr. annual in relation to lost tax revenue. I do not think it will take long to agree that that money could be spent on many other exciting things. For example, it could be to reduce the tax for those who follow the rules of the game, so that it became even better to operate in Denmark. Unfortunately, we are not getting the money directly with this bill, so hopefully the joy of being able to strengthen the effort does not mean, unfortunately, that we are happy to start distributing the money. But this is certainly a step towards combating fraud in the Danish tax system. This creates openness and clarity. This ensures that we comply with our international obligations in relation to the EU money laundering directive. And, of course, it has the positive effect that it will hopefully also make the financing of terrorist activities more difficult and easier to unravel. So, of course, we in the Left support the proposal, and I have promised to announce that the Conservative People's Party does too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115120021	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115120030	Thank you. Each year tax evasion costs the Danes and our society billions of dollars. Businesses and individuals have been evading taxes for years by hiding wealth and income in tax havens or by making aggressive tax planning. It is unreasonable, and it is unacceptable, for some people to avoid contributing to the community they at the same time live well by, for example. to operate in Denmark. It is also unsolidarous to the many citizens and companies who pay their contributions to our community. In the Enhedslisten we have for years, especially with the former tax rapporteur Mr. Frank Aaen at the forefront, tried to put these issues on the political agenda and to take action against it, and we have been raising the problems again and again with changing tax ministers for many years without the great, notable results. Fortunately, in recent years, there has been an increased international focus on this issue, particularly in the OECD, but also in the European Union, and this has boosted things at home. And under the last Socialist-led government, a number of sensible agreements were then negotiated in this area for action against tax havens, which, moreover, a majority has endorsed, which I think is very positive. So thank you for that. And it is not long ago that we adopted a country-by-country bill for large companies, in other words, where it is published, what kind of revenue they have in which countries, etc. The legislative proposal before us today implements another important part of the agreements we entered into under the previous government, namely that relating to a register of the real owners of the companies. The possibility of blurring real ownership has been an important tool for companies and people who have stored assets and fortunes in tax havens. In some cases, corporate structures have made it almost impossible to determine which persons actually owned the company and were taxable on income. The transparency and openness now guaranteed by this proposal can therefore be an important tool for SKAT and for the authorities to detect and combat illegal tax evasion, and therefore, of course, we support the proposal. We see it as a very good day for our community, and of course we are also proud that Enhedslisten has played an important role in putting this issue on the agenda for many years. At the same time, it is also important that we do not stop now because many more important initiatives can be taken to combat this anti-social tax evasion. We must start using public procurement policy and tender policy offensively to combat tax havens. Companies operating from tax havens must be excluded from offering and operating public services. We must not be able to carry out welfare tasks and at the same time speculate about paying taxes to the society that pays for welfare. And, of course, we should never repeat fads like the one we saw when Goldman Sachs bought himself into DONG by using a tax haven. We must also consider whether we should take some steps towards what has been done in France by having a genuine blacklist of tax havens, in other words that we will have a clearer definition of what we really mean when we talk about tax havens. Then we should also look at the advice given by banks. There have been quite remarkable, I think, stories of how aggressively banks advise their customers in the use of tax havens. This is an area that we so much need to address. Then we must step up international efforts to combat these unsolidary tax havens, which unfortunately include more EU Member States. It is very important here that efforts should not just take place in the OECD, which only covers the more wealthy countries. It is very good what is being done in the OECD, but much of the tax evasion that is taking place is particularly affecting the developing countries, and it is therefore crucial that more efforts are being made in this area in the United Nations too. In order for this effort to be effective, so that we can stop this abuse, this cheating and this unsolidarian evasion, it's also important that we have a tax administration that is actually capable of fulfilling that task, and we know that there are major problems in SKAT these years, and therefore it's hard to see this discussion separate from the discussion on resources for SKAT. However, I would just like to conclude by congratulating the government, the former government, first and foremost, which made the agreement, for coming to where we have come today, and I hope we can agree to take new steps towards tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115120548	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115120557	In the absence of our rapporteur in this area, I must inform you that the Liberal Alliance naturally shares the ambition to combat tax havens. It is, of course, important and reasonable that Danish tax legislation should be respected. But when it comes to these specific initiatives, we always have to weigh things up. Does the risk of tax fraud, which is hoped to be prevented, measure up to the administrative burden that new control measures will, of course, always entail? We may not think that balance is entirely present in this case. The proposal is expected to cost about 20 million. kr. in conversion costs, 3 million. kr. annual for industry as well as 7-8 million. kr. annually for the state. These are, of course, relatively small amounts, but it has to be compared to the fact that the Ministry does not expect to recover a single extra tax revenue. And since, as I have said, it is always a question of the effort being made and the difficulties that are being given to companies are in line with that effect, we think the balance is too unbalanced in this proposal and we are therefore critical of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115120726	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Nicolai Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115120733	Thank you. Here again, we are dealing with a legislative proposal which will bring about a political agreement from before the time of the alternative. This is an agreement that has broad support in the House, and there is good reason for doing so. The agreement provides for stronger action against tax havens in the field of business, and we can of course support that. The aim of the register proposed by the draft law is to create greater openness and transparency in the real owners of companies, thereby creating more difficult conditions for tax evasion, and of course we are also in favour of this. In addition, it implements parts of the EU's Fourth Money Laundering Directive, which strengthens the framework for combating money laundering and terrorist financing. This is a directive which, of course, we would like to see implemented as soon as possible. The legislative proposal therefore combats tax havens, money laundering and terrorist financing by creating greater openness and transparency in this area, and the alternative can support a hundred percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115120828	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115120837	Thank you. Today, we are ensuring that an agreement we made in the time of the previous government and the time of the former prime minister is introduced into Danish legislation, while implementing the fourth money laundering directive. What we are doing today is taking some additional steps towards trying to prevent companies from entering tax havens and that terrorist financing or money laundering can take place through, for example. Danish companies. It is important for the Radical Left to ensure that this transparency can be achieved. I think there is something very interesting when you read the hearings for today's legislative proposal. There is a discussion about over-implementation. This is a very good example of over-implementation not always of evil, but of political priorities, for example. would like to have higher standards in Danish legislation. There you can choose to say that in Denmark we want to make sure that our companies cannot be used in this way, that they have to be registered and that we need to have a proper knowledge of who owns the companies. Well, then you can pull up an evil word and say it's overimplementation, but it could also just be saying that in Denmark we will also be allowed to make our own legislation, set our own standards. It is not just an EU framework that has to determine everything. So I think this is a good example of how you can do things in Denmark that go further and set higher standards than the European Union and have good political reasons for doing so. So it was just a small comment on the very interesting discussions in the hearings. The Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115121010	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115121025	Thank you. After all, the bill has been well examined. This results in an agreement from December 2014, which we in the SF were very happy to conclude. And we were really happy that it was a broad agreement that both SF and Enhedslisten could see themselves in particular in connection with a number of the criticisms that have been made. If we are to be completely honest, perhaps it was not only the goodwill of all the parties in the Chamber that resulted in this agreement, but also the fact that we see increased pressure from both the OECD and the European Commission in relation to the creation of common rules. When capital is cross-border, as we see more and more in these years, international rules are also important. And there I think there is reason to pay particular tribute to the OECD, the Commission and indeed also to the Danish Competition Commissioner for increasing the focus on this area. We are sometimes put in check as national parliaments because the Danish rules or the rules in the other EU countries are filled with holes, and every time we try to open a hole, a new hole appears. There are examples of bell-clear rules where something is legal and where something is illegal, but the big challenge is the grey zone sometimes. With regard to this bill on the register of real owners, we have seen a myriad of companies where it is difficult to see who are the real owners. There have also been several very good documentaries that have shown that when you follow the cash flows it's always a good rule to follow the money... you can see that you end up at a post office box somewhere exotic. And who are the real owners? This is also one of the reasons why SF tried to tighten up the rules on limited companies, which it is also very difficult to see who is behind. So it's a really good day. This is a really, very important step in the fight against tax evasion and what some would call aggressive tax planning, which is also an expression of the fact that we are always a step behind the capital flows flowing both in Europe and at national level. And then I hope that the minister present, despite the fact that it is not his area of responsibility, will nevertheless answer some questions. Because this is so important that, unfortunately, I cannot hold it back, even though the Minister is a minister in another area. One of the questions is that the bill states that it is then granted to the Minister for Business and Growth • to issue detailed rules on the technical conditions for registration and publication of information about the real owners. Behind that, of course, there may be a concern about what the more technical circumstances mean in relation to it. We from the SF are very pleased that there will be full publicity. We could not fully clarify that when we made the tax agreement: what did it mean? But it is really important for us that there is full publicity, and that is why we also want answers to what it means: is it a hundred percent public? If the Minister cannot answer that, it is also fair, but then we will of course ask some questions in committee. Another issue raised by my good colleague from the Enhedslisten also relates to the fact that some of what we really need in the fight against capital flight is, of course, knowledge and transparency. And there has been a long discussion about the open tax lists introduced by the previous government, which both the government, the Left and other parties have been very opposed to, but there it might also be interesting to hear whether it has been shelved, so that it will not be dropped. But all in all, I would like to say that it is a very good day. It's a very good bill. I also think that the government has very loyally put forward the legislative proposal, which includes both what we agreed on in spirit and letter just over a year ago, but also the representations that have been made by the OECD and the concrete demands that are contained in the money laundering directive and the wishes that have been made by the Commission. In the future, I also believe that we should look at the 28 or 29 points that the Commission made • I think it was as far back as December 2012 • where there were a number of proposals on what the Member States could do without requiring the different Member States to do so, but also, as my colleague from the Enhedslisten mentioned, look at blacklisting, blacklisting, by different companies. I also think that we should mention today the press conference which was the other day when Commissioner Vestager was out to tell us about another step forward in this area. So I am actually optimistic for the first time in many years that we are going the right way, and I would also like to thank the government for bringing forward this bill and having stressed that there must be full publicity about real owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115121548	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Transport and Building, who takes this matter to the Minister for Industry and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115121557	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments. Although it is not normal for me to have legislative proposals with the rapporteurs here, it has been a good experience. I'll just sign for that. The bill we are discussing today implements the initiative on registering real owners from the agreement to strengthen action against corporate tax havens, which most of the Danish Parliament's parties entered into in December 2014. Moreover, it is the case that EU legislation is implemented here in the form of individual provisions of the Fourth Money Laundering Directive, which is intended to help prevent the abuse of companies of any kind for the purpose of money laundering proceeds from financial crime or terrorist financing. In accordance with the tax haven agreement, the bill will help to create greater transparency about the ownership of Danish companies. Transparency is an important tool to ensure that companies are not abused for tax evasion or the like, and with the proposed register of real owners we ensure transparency and publicity about the essential ownership of Danish companies and in a large number of companies and foundations. There was, of course, a question from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen here, and I understood that it was a question of whether there could be any legal considerations to be taken into account in the wording that lay down. And I can only say that I think that if Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has not been able to clarify this in the negotiations themselves, then I would say that it is probably wise for me not to start making an offer from here on how I think it should be knitted together. I would say that I think that would be a good idea. That is also what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen herself proposed, that you could ask it as a question, and I think you should. However, as I said here, the idea is that there is openness and transparency in the proposal. In short, about being a real owner, it is one who ultimately exercises control over a company, a fund or another of the types of business covered. The proposed changes mean that companies etc. must know who their real owners are and they must register it with the Danish Business Administration. The information contained in the register will be available to the public. This means that there is transparency for everyone about who is a real owner in a given company. This also means that the Public Prosecutor for Special Economic and International Crime and other public authorities can easily and quickly access information in the performance of their supervisory or control tasks. The register is thus a good tool which makes it much harder for those who do not have pure flour in the bag and who hide behind different company structures to blur their ownership of a company. So I would like to point out that the draft law and it was to Mrs Ida Auken who mentioned whether the bill went further than the fourth money laundering directive requires no further progress except that the register is made publicly available. And public accessibility is a direct consequence of the tax havens agreement, which creates greater transparency and does not have any economic impact on businesses. So this doesn't have any economic consequences. I believe that with the tax havens agreement and this proposal to register real owners, we are creating more transparency and making it more difficult to exploit Denmark for example. Tax havens. I also believe that we are implementing the rules in a way that takes account of the fact that it must still be easy to operate in Denmark with as few administrative burdens for business as possible. In those words, I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and hope for a constructive discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115121936	There is one brief comment for the time being. It's from sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115121940	Thank you for your reply and thank you for recognising the comments. I have one question which concerns a slightly different debate, namely the one on the open tax lists, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also mentioned. After all, this December, the Minister of Taxation again chose to implement the agreement, i.e. a publication of Danish companies' tax payments. I think that was really, really positive, both because there is an agreement and because it is wise. The aim is not that it should be a mouthpiece, but the aim is that it should be an insight which can also provide insight into companies that actually contribute. But there is some confusion, I think, about what the government really wants now. The tax minister was out to say that yes, one would continue, but perhaps one would adapt them in a different way, that now one should also talk to the Danish People's Party and other things. So you can get a status on this? Are there still plans to change or abolish them as tax lists, or has the government, like it has accepted, that there is a majority in the Folketing that has decided that it will continue to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160115122041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115122042	Well, I feel completely covered by both the tax minister and the business minister, and the things that they have put forward so I have also been informed whether it is about cases that they are investigating. And I don't think we're getting any closer today. On a subsequent question you may be able to do so, but not at the present time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115122100	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export, and if no one objects to it, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115122125	The debate is open. The first in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115122139	This bill aims to implement an EU directive on collective management of copyright, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament in 2014, and it must be implemented in Danish law by 10 April of this year. Copyright law, including copyright management, is incredibly important for Danish artists and Danish cultural content and production. For this reason, it is also vital for the Socialists that the implementation of this directive in Danish law takes into account the special and good way in which we in Denmark have managed to manage copyright for many years, and this is not least through our collective management organisations such as Denmark. KODA, Gramex, Copydan and their member organizations. And the directive, after a long process and also after the influence of the European Commission and the European Parliament, also allows for this. The implementation of the directive means that collective management organisations throughout the European Union, and therefore also in Denmark, with this bill, must meet a number of minimum requirements in relation to the management of copyright. They will have to meet a number of requirements such as: the organisation of the general meeting, the management of rights claims and also transparency. Rules should also be laid down on how to deal with rights claims, including the setting of time limits for the distribution of remuneration to rightholders. This also means that collective management organisations must publish an annual transparency report. In addition, the draft law also contains rules which impose obligations on the member organisations of the collective management organisations. Finally, the draft law lays down rules on licences for the rights of musical works that apply to several countries, and this is for the provision of online services. The aim of those rules is to make it easier for music services on the Internet to obtain licences covering more than one Member State. The Social Democrats believe that this bill creates a good framework for implementing the directive in a way that is in line with Danish practice and Danish traditions when it comes to the management of copyright. I can also see that in general terms is the attitude of the many actors who have given a hearing response to the draft law. However, there are many organisations which stress that the proposal also, compared to today, entails increased bureaucracy and administrative costs. It is important for the Socialists to keep it at the lowest possible level in terms of implementing the provisions of the law. There are a few points that I hope the Minister is willing to look at during the legislative process. The first is whether it would not make sense from the outset to involve the management organisations established outside the EEA area to be covered by the law. I think that signal can just as well be sent immediately, so no one is in any doubt that all management organisations operating on Danish soil are subject to Danish law. The second is that associations and organisations should be given a reasonable time to implement the law in their statutes and in their organisation, because this requires new statutes and the organisation of the general assembly and proper information for members and perhaps the introduction of new IT systems. That is why I think it is right to set a reasonable time for organisations to be able to implement the provisions of the law in their organisations. It could, for example, be done. be 1 year after the entry into force of the law. Finally, the final point is that, as a result of the legislative notes, it is possible that a board of directors of a management organisation may consist both of members elected directly at the general meeting, but also of members selected by the members' associations. This is important in relation to the tradition we have had in Denmark in this area. Therefore, I also think that it should be stated directly in section 6 of the draft law rather than only in the comments. But I hope that this is something the Minister will look at when we are going to start the committee procedure. With those comments, the Social Democratic Party will be able to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115122620	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115122634	Last year, Professor Morten Rosenmeier published a fine little book on copyright entitled "Copyright and Cultural Heritage," and in it he tells about a visit by two professors from Kosovo, who said that they no longer had textbooks at the University of Priština because the courts did not enforce copyright, which had led to the sale of it in a copy shop a few days later as soon as a book was published. The little story says something about why it is so important to have copyright and to protect it, because it is under pressure, not just in banana states like Kosovo, but all over the world. Fortunately, this is not the case in Denmark, because here we have a fine little law on copyright, which is enforced zealously. Now we need a law on collective management of copyright, even though we have had a good arrangement for many years through the flexible licensing system. In Denmark, Sweden, Norway, we have contract licenses which manage the use of works for everyone, both those who are members of a collective management organisation and those who are not. It's something you don't know outside the North. In the rest of the EU, organisations manage only the money of their members. However, England is on its way for inspiration from the Nordic countries, and as far as I have been told, Hungary also has something similar to ours. Examples of collective management organisations are KODA, Gramex, Filmex, Copydan etc. KODA is probably the most famous. If a tavern or radio channel wants to play music, you can pay only KODA, which then settles for the musicians. Copydan is then, on the other hand, an umbrella organisation that settles to member organisations, which in turn settles to their members. All in all, however, all parties are satisfied with the system. Then, when the system is so well functioning in Denmark, you can ask, why on earth should we then have a new law. This is what we need because of a directive from the European Union that will create uniform rules for collective management organisations in the European Union. There was great concern in Denmark when the directive became known a few years ago because it did not take account of the Nordic agreement licence. After several years of work by the Danish collective management organisations and Danish MEPs, among others. By Left Morten Løkkegaard, the contract license was written in as an opportunity. This law does not transpose the whole directive, but only parts of it. The law was actually completed before the elections on 18 June with the good assistance of collective management organisations, but the new Left Government would avoid overimplementation, so that the many good things that correct the EU directive were rewritten. It is usually a good thing to avoid overimplementation, and the government should be commended for that, but in this situation it was perhaps a little to the detriment of Danish copyright owners. After the consultations, the improvements have been rewritten, and that is what the legislative notes then call clarification, and that is quite good, and we are very pleased with that. The law also makes it easier for online services such as Spotify, Apple Music and many more to enter into agreements with collective management organisations so that they can offer music throughout the EU. Now there is a difficult word, and it is so-called multi-territoriality, in other words a licence for several areas at once. The law also ensures that only companies with the right capacity can be eligible to make licences. It protects both users and rightholders as it creates proper contractual relations for both. The law also prevents companies which are in principle unable to deal with these licences from doing so anyway, and that would mean great uncertainty for users. Organisations must then monitor that the services comply with the law and invoice properly. However, there are some small things we want to have looked at during the committee procedure. The Social Democrats have already mentioned this and that is section 6 of the draft law. 3, for some are concerned that it opens up direct elections to all the seats on the board. Then there is the question of the entry into force of the law, as a number of consultation responses have pointed out. The directive says that the law should enter into force in April 2016, but it creates a lot of trouble for the organisations, so the Danish People's Party believes that the law should only be incorporated into the organisation within 1 year of its entry into force, as many have wanted. The Folketing is there to help and not to make life difficult. The last thing we have is the European Union. Finally, the Danish People's Party will say that we are in favour of the draft law, but we will just wait for our final position because of the above-mentioned problems and therefore we look forward to the discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115123153	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115123201	Today, we are dealing first with the proposal for a law on collective management of copyright, a draft law arising from an EU directive. The aim of the proposal is to regulate collective management organisations in Denmark, for example. KODA and Copydan. It also aims to promote the granting of licences for the rights of music hosts for the provision of online services across EU borders. As the two previous rapporteurs mentioned, it benefits both the rights holders and the online music services, and the draft law increases the focus on the transparency of collective management organisations. The legislative amendments proposed thus bring benefits to a wide range of the parties concerned by the current legislation. In addition, this is a minimum implementation, since the draft law is close to the wording and structure of the EU directive. Against this background, of course, the Left supports the proposal. And on behalf of Mr. Naser Khader, I must inform you that Conservatives also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115123314	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115123331	For Enhedslisten, it is important and crucial that creative and performers are guaranteed a fair income for their work. It is just easier said than done, and it is even more difficult in a time when artistic creation is often disseminated on websites, on Facebook, on Twitter, without the artists getting as much as a red shrimp. On the other hand, companies like Google serve rushing on ads that encircle the free art. This problem does not solve the present draft law on collective management of copyright. However, the draft law is a step in the right direction, because it means that collective management organisations across the EU must meet minimum requirements for their management of copyright. As has been mentioned, the draft law is based on an EU directive which Denmark is required to implement. We have noted with satisfaction that in the context of this implementation the Minister has listened to proposals from various stakeholders in this area. For example: It is good that the bill opens up the possibility that collective management bodies established outside the EU/EEA may now also be required to meet minimum requirements if they wish to be active in Denmark. Well, we'd like to go along with it, sir. Mogens Jensen said, go one step further and already require them to do so. For example: It is a good thing that proxies are valid only for a single general meeting and that no continuous proxies can be given which may be valid for years. But we still wonder why the Minister is so busy stressing that he does not want to overimplement the directive. What is meant by that? It is in the obligation imposed by the government and a majority of the Folketing through membership of the EU that directives should be transposed into and implemented into Danish law. But whether they should be translated or implemented should depend only on whether they are reasonable. Why, though, should we fail to do something sensible just because it is not specifically required in some random EU directive? From our point of view, in some areas, the proposal is under-implementing rather than the opposite, for example. with regard to the requirement for the management board of management organisations to be elected at the general meeting. Why, then, does the bill suggest that some of the board members can be elected in other forums? And when, for example, the directive... Does it require supervision and control not to be carried out by the management organisations' own organisations? Why does the legislative proposal suggest that this can actually happen? In general, the question is whether the bill guarantees the individual rightholder sufficient insight into, influence and control of the collective management bodies. Speaking of control and insight, we are in the middle of a gigantic scandal in which, over a four-year period, a producer association seems to have been cheated for a three-digit million dollars. It is money that did not benefit the real rights holders. That is why it is only natural for us, when dealing with this draft law, to discuss whether anything can be done in law to avoid future cases where the right-holders do not get what they should legally be entitled to. In conclusion, we find ourselves in a rather absurd situation where the revenue of collecting societies is growing year by year, while many artists and rightholders are getting less and less. Not least in this situation, it is essential that creative and performers have better insights and opportunities for direct democratic influence in their management organisations. This bill should contribute to this and we look forward to exploring the possibilities for it in the forthcoming committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115123758	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115123807	In the absence of our rapporteur in this area, I should like to say that we support the draft law as it stands here. With the introduction of the law on collective management of copyright, we are, of course, implementing the EU directive in this area. The Liberal Alliance believes that the management of copyright works quite well in Denmark today. That is why we are pleased that a level of implementation has been chosen, which retains the status quo to a large extent in Denmark. At the same time, of course, we can see the advantages of having a common European regulatory framework so that it is easier to enforce its rights abroad. However, as I said, we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115123853	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Nicolai Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115123858	The draft law aims to implement an EU directive on collective management and will require collective management organisations throughout the EU to meet a number of minimum requirements for collective management of copyright. We are generally in favour of the draft law. This will improve the conditions for the whole industry, and with the comments made by the Ministry on the consultation responses in the commented consultation note, I think we are reaching a very sensible implementation of the directive in a Danish context. Of course, there are also some thistles in the bill. There will always be when we are dealing with such a big bill and when it is born out of an EU directive. One example is the Copyright Conciliation Committee, which, in their consultation answer, is concerned about the liberalisation of the rights management that the directive will entail. According to the Copyright Council, liberalisation will challenge what can be called the Danish model in this area and create cultural policy challenges, not least for cultural diversity. The Danish approach, which has so far been characterised by a collective and solidarity approach, can make a difference. I fully agree when the consultation states that this is an issue that we must pay close attention to in the future, both among the organisations, the politicians and the Ministry. I hope there is a broad consensus on this too. In addition, I look forward to the further work of the committee on the legislative proposal, because I am sure that any problems we may encounter will be dealt with in a good dialogue between all parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115124027	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak. That is why I shall give the floor to the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115124038	Thank you, Madam President. Collective management organisations have for many years played a very important role in ensuring the smooth management of copyright in Denmark. And you have to say, if we didn't have them, we had to invent them right away. If, for example, you're gonna have to... is a school that wants to use music, movies or lyrics, so it is quite difficult to have to ask permission from every producer. That is why we have collective management organisations. They are diverse, and their structure and shape are very different. This can give rise to challenges in a world where, for example, music and films are used not only widely in each country, but also to a large extent across borders. This means, of course, that the rights holders risk being in a very different situation in the different countries. The draft law takes this into account as it establishes a common set of rules across the EU. Composers, authors, actors and other rightholders are thus guaranteed the same minimum protection in all Member States. One cannot fool oneself by choosing the country where one can pay the least or avoid paying. There is therefore clarity as to when the remuneration is to be paid to rightholders and what deductions can be made. At the same time, the implementation of the directive means that the focus is on transparency in collective management organisations. It will also benefit right-holders, users and other collective management organisations, who can then look at each other over their shoulders. The bill also introduces mechanisms to make it easier to be a provider of music on the Internet and to make it easier to obtain licences covering more than one Member State. The draft law has been drafted with two main considerations. Firstly, the draft law represents a minimum implementation, as was also mentioned. Thus, more stringent requirements are not imposed on collective management organisations than those resulting from the directive in question. Secondly, it ensures that, within the framework of the directive, collective management organisations and their member organisations are given the maximum flexibility to adapt in the way that suits them best, so that the well-functioning Danish model of rights can continue. In this context, I, like several rapporteurs, am very pleased with the solution of the draft law, which ensures that the current structure of members of management organisations can be maintained. And that's part of the answer to Mr. Søren Søndergaard. I am very much prepared, moreover, to answer every possible question from the committee as well as I can, because it is a very complex matter. That is why I also sent quite a lot of information to all the rapporteurs, because in terms of complexity I think we need to help each other, and also with understanding. I've heard the request from both Mr. Mogens Jensen and Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen on better time for implementation. I'm not sure it's that easy, but let's look at it and go as far as we can. Then I can also understand that several rapporteurs think that it is too little that it is only in the comments that the boards of management organisations can include someone elected by the sub-organisations, or whatever we should call it. However, I would just like to say that what is stated in the comments is as good as what is stated in the legislative text, so when it says in the comments that the boards can be composed in this way, that is the case. Then I understand, sir. Søren Søndergaard, that he really thinks that we have been under-implemented, and it is nice to hear from a member of an anti-European party, it is really nice to hear, but I would like to keep my tongue straight in the mouth and say that for us EU supporters it is therefore important that the European Union should not be blamed for more than the European Union is actually responsible for. So if there is something that some organizations encounter and ask: what is this? then it is a great advantage if it is clear what comes from the EU and what comes from Denmark. And what comes from Denmark is a little easier to change than what comes from the European Union. So that's another argument for not overimplementing. And I wonder if that is an argument, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard understands deep down. As I have said, I look forward to a thorough work by the committee, in which we will have clarity on all questions of doubt, and hopefully we will have a very broad consensus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115124652	There are several brief comments, and we start with Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115124656	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the material we have received in advance. For the Minister is quite right that this is a very complex matter and we must also have a technical review, and that is good because it is complicated, and that is why there is no need to take up the complex issues now, but we can come back to that. However, I would like to take note of the above, because I do not really understand what the Minister is saying. When you make this bill, you can put it in what you think is right to do. In other words, it has nothing to do with the EU directive. It is clear that you cannot break with the EU directive. It goes without saying that a majority has made the commitment that it must comply with the EU directive. However, if you think it is sensible, you can go further. Then why is there the general opposition to going further? Can it not be very reasonable to go further in a number of cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20160115124755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115124757	As you know, it is the government's policy that we will be clearer about what comes from the European Union and what we ourselves have put on top of it. In this case there is a little upstairs, but it is true that we could have put more upstairs, and there are previous sketches where there were several things that were put in legal clauses. However, I think it is extremely reasonable that we should have the greatest possible flexibility so that we can adapt in the best way possible so that the model of rights can continue. But Mr. Søren Søndergaard is right about the fact that we could have fulfilled several wishes in relation to this legislation. Of course we could. But we have chosen to be very clear about what comes from the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115124859	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115124901	Yes, and the Minister is quite right that the proposal actually goes further than the directive. Then you just hasten to stress that this is not overimplementation. But I don't understand why. Because we are going further than the directive, and it is quite all right to go further than the directive, if that is sensible, and that is why we need to discuss the content instead of discussing whether it is over-implementation. Because these are the kind of spells that I really don't think can be used for anything, but that can be more confusing than good. In this context, I would just like to ask the Minister about the case we have had about a rightholder who seems to have lost a great deal of money and whether this is an aspect that has been considered in the Ministry at all in the formulation of the details of this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115124950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115124952	I cannot explain in detail what has been going on in the ministry, also because I am a rather new minister in this area, but we can certainly inform the committee of this, and this is something that must not separate us at all. I mentioned myself that I had accepted a request from the organisations, which led to something that might well be called overimplementation. You should not be more Catholic than the Pope and even if the government does not want overimplementation, we are talking to when there are really good reasons for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115125028	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115125031	Thank you. There was just one question that I didn't hear for a moment that the Minister commented on, and this is the question of whether the rules now laid down in the law should not apply immediately to management organisations operating on Danish soil but located outside the EEA area. I agree that an authorisation has been given for the Minister to lay down a rule that in time they are covered, but why not immediately say that all management organisations operating in Denmark must be subject to the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160115125111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115125114	I heard that sir. Mogens Jensen actually mentioned it as the first in the speech, and when I did not reply it was because I am not fully aware of what the answer is, but I will provide it. First of all, I don't want to make myself smarter than I am. If it is possible to involve them in the past, then we must do so. But I'd like to think for and against before I take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115125141	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115125144	The questioner is very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115125147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115125149	Well, then the day ended well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115125152	Yes, it certainly did. No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Culture. No one else has asked for the floor at all, and that means that the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160115125209	This also means that there is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 19 January 2016 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule set out on the Danish Parliament's website.
