ParlaMint-DK_20160523095959	The meeting is open. There is today, Monday 23 May 2016, the following review: Jakob Sølvhøj (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Jacob Mark (SF) and others.: Haste query no. F 42 (What can the government say about the ongoing prosecution of elected parliamentarians in Turkey and the consequences for a possible peace process?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160523100029	The debate is open. The first one we welcome up here on the platform is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523100055	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance and the Radical Left have tabled motions for resolutions No. B 188 on the introduction of a social card for vulnerable citizens on public support, which we are going to deal with in this Chamber today. I fully agree with the intention that vulnerable citizens should be helped and encouraged to find jobs. For some citizens, the road to full-time employment is quite a long one, for some it may not be within reach, but self-reliance is the ambition of all who can. That is why we need to ensure that a dependency system that has the right balance, a dependency system where self-reliance is worthwhile and where, for the most vulnerable, it is also possible to work, for example. A few hours a week. Of course, a few hours of work is better than no work. We already have a healthy balance in our dependency system, where it is both worthwhile to be self-employed and where it pays to take small jobs when it is currently best opportunity. Let me start from the area of cash assistance. The introduction by the government of a ceiling on cash benefits and a 225-hour rule means that it has become more attractive to work rather than to be on public support. With the ceiling on cash benefits, there is a ceiling on how much a person can get in cash benefits, housing benefits and special support. When you work, you get paid and less cash benefits, which allows for more housing support under the cash benefits ceiling, and this results in a significant gain. At the same time, the rules for deductions from cash benefits generally mean that you do not get deducted from what is equivalent to the entire income from wages in the aid. You keep 25 kroner. per hour, you work. This means that there is a single cash benefit recipient with two children will therefore, after the government has introduced a cash benefits ceiling, have actually DKK 3,500. more to themselves per month if the person is in small jobs 10 hours a week than on cash benefits alone. This corresponds to an increase in the available amount of DKK 79. per hours of work. At the same time, there is still a further financial gain if the person concerned takes a full-time job and gets out of public support altogether. If we take a benefit as a resource take-up or early retirement, there are also clear incentives to work in small jobs alongside the benefit. So the financial gain is actually there today. There is a gain from self-reliance, and for vulnerable groups there is a gain from taking small jobs. In addition, a trial is under way with so-called day-to-day provision of small jobs to vulnerable cash benefits recipients. The experiment was decided as part of the cash aid reform and supported by a broad majority in the Folketing, including the Left. The experiment, which is in progress in 14 municipalities, means that cash benefit recipients or integration benefit recipients are provided with small jobs. At the same time, they will have a more relaxed income regulation in cash benefits. We are, of course, following the experiment, which runs out the year. I therefore share the intention of the Liberal Alliance and the Radical Left that there should be both help and encouragement to take a job for vulnerable citizens. However, we need to be more precise about what barriers might be for the most vulnerable to take up small jobs and how a possible concrete proposal could be designed appropriately. By this I mean, among other things, that full-time employment must continue to be more attractive than a few hours of work per week. Here, tax exemptions for larger amounts can cause problems. For example, a single recipient of cash benefits would have DKK 1,300. more available for a small job next to the cash benefits compared to full-time employment if a social card of DKK 5,000 is introduced. That is not the case, of course. So we need to identify the target group more closely, so that we make sure that the scheme only covers the most vulnerable and does not become a slippery path towards general tax exemption, which • put at the tip of the • could turn into a kind of black work put into a system. We must ensure that such a system can be managed easily and simply, and we must look at the financing of the additional costs which a specific proposal is likely to entail. The government will therefore propose that consideration of improved conditions, in order for the vulnerable to take small jobs, for example. in the form of social free cards, may take place in the context of the relevant economic negotiations in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523100658	There is a brief comment from Mrs Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523100700	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge the positive approach of the Minister for Employment to the proposal. I would say that, of course, we are helping to find answers to the problems that have been raised now. I just want to ask you about the experiment that is going on right now in 14 municipalities. As far as I know, it is based on the requirement of collective pay. I would ask the Minister to correct me if that is not true. This means, of course, that the people involved in the experiments are able to work for collective pay. Those we are talking about in the motion for a resolution are related to section 81 of the Services Act. In fact, these are the people who have the allerallest in their lives for many different reasons. They cannot work on collective pay. It must play a role if one is able to do one thing or the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523100753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523100754	The first question is whether there are contractual conditions attached to the experiments currently underway, I would like to reply quickly and in writing. I simply cannot answer that here on a stand-by basis. However, I agree that if this is to be meaningful and caring, it must apply to everyone. Then it must be all types of functions that we find a way to which those concerned can follow, so that in reality it is the capacity of the individual exposed that governs what foothold that person can get. So thank you for your receipt. It's honestly meant. We want to play along with finding the best possible foundation here for the weakest citizens. So our only reservations are linked to transitional situations, so that deadlines do not arise, so that you suddenly get less out of working more if you get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523100853	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523100855	I would also like to sign for the undertaking that has now been given. For those of us who have drafted the motion for a resolution, I would just like to make it clear that it is people who are actually unable to do anything with others. We have had the experience that the community alone, when playing football on asphalt, which some have set in motion, promises them to be able to do more. That is why it is also vital that we look at the social situation, it is the community that must help lift them and give them the strength that allows them to move on with their lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523100932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523100934	In fact, I have nothing but affirmative comments on that. I believe that the vision is the one that is increasingly marked by the understanding of the challenges we face for the weakest groups. That is why it is a basic view which I would also very much like to work on the basis of in an attempt to get the best possible basis for the people we are talking about here in order for them to have a better life.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101007	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101009	Thank you. The minister says there apparently had to be some barriers in order to be able to take small jobs. I may have misunderstood the Minister, because that was another message we received when we dealt with the cash aid reform not so long ago. That's when we were told there were no barriers. People could just go out and take those small jobs, even if they were activity-specific cash benefits recipients, as they call it, who were not immediately ready for the labour market. But now it sounds like there are some barriers all of a sudden. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101046	This is related to the fact that, regardless of who you are and what situation you are in, if you are going to work today in Denmark, it is with all that it involves in terms of contractual relations, tax payments, tax returns, etc. I understand this proposal in the sense that, for a particular group of citizens, you want to make it very simple and put the citizens in a situation so that, if they can get into employment for a few hours, there are no payments to the public, for example. via SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101127	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101128	Thank you. This is the part we decide here in the Folketing: set-off in cash benefits and any tax exemption etc. But are there any barriers on the labour market to take small jobs of just a few hours' duration? Or was there in the Minister's reply that the Minister imagines that now we have to ask the proposers that this is really about jobs that should not be regulated at all? There should be no contract of employment, there should be no requirement for normal pay and things and matters. What is the Minister's view of this, if that is what is in the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101205	I think I see this proposal as an attempt to give a particular group of very weak citizens the best chance of getting started with something in a community which is different from the situation outside which they find themselves. If it can be done in such a way that in a company, in an association, in another place, you can become part of a community and at the same time, in addition to your cash assistance, or whatever you may be on, you can get a salary that you can enjoy, built up in a simple way, then we should work it through and just ensure that no deadlock situations arise where suddenly, in some way, some sort of mini-job or alternative labour market has been unintentionally established.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101306	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101307	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for his positive statements. For us in the Liberal Alliance and also in the Radical Left, it is precisely here that there is a gap between a number of vulnerable citizens and access to our labour market. That's kind of the gap we want to try to make up for with this proposal. The minister is talking about funding. I'm interested in hearing a little more about it. As I see it, the most vulnerable citizens we are talking about here have not paid taxes for many years and have no prospect of becoming taxpayers either. Does the Minister not share the view that there will be very, very limited tax revenue from this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101353	As a starting point, yes. It is primarily a reservation that I put up because there are a number of parameters that we need to be aware of. Firstly, the proposal is limited in such a way that it is a relatively large population of about 80,000 people, we can see from our figures. About half of that group, as I see it, is on early retirement. We do not know how much impact there will have to be in the proposal, for that group, until we have worked through it. I agree, however, that these are not the large numbers we are talking about, and I fully share the view that if we are able to give the people concerned a foothold on a system such as this one, then that is a good thing. It is not so long ago that there was a wide-ranging discussion on the subject of Café Kaffegal, where it emerged that a number of early retirement workers felt that it was essential for their lives that a derogation should be maintained so that they were able to have a foothold in companies or social economic enterprises alongside their early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101508	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101510	Thank you. That was precisely our view of funding. We totally share the objective of delimiting this target group. The idea is actually that it applies to the most vulnerable citizens, those covered by Article 81 of the Services Act. Not everyone is the most exposed. Then I share the Minister's view that this is about quality of life. It is simply a question of increasing the quality of life of some of the most vulnerable citizens in our society. So, of course, I welcome the fact that the government supports that position.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101545	We fully agree with that and I have no further comments on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101549	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101550	Thank you, President. The minister spoke a little about the number: 4,000. Pre-retirement pensioners and cash benefits recipients are involved in this. These are just cash benefits recipients. Could we not get the Minister to make an overview of how many of these are distributed around the country? This case of exposed persons from section 81 may be particularly pronounced in the City of Copenhagen. It's just the guys in section 81 that's all about. Then we could get an overview of how many are really involved. It's not the early retirement scheme that's going under this scheme. How many are really involved? The proposal also says that they are not paying taxes, but if they are receiving cash benefits, are they paying taxes on cash benefits? Let's get an overview. I do not expect the Minister to respond here. But let us get a written overview of how many these are and what conditions they are living under, to the extent that they can now be settled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101647	I would very much like to commit myself to doing so quickly, so that this is the basis for further reflection. In other words, we simply unpack the group of persons associated with section 81 and look at the arrangements on which they are and how many there are on the different types of schemes. If they can be further categorized with a subdivision, so do we. I fully agree that this is a very important basis for further political reflection.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101717	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. We shall now proceed to the rapporteurs of the parties. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen for Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523101735	Thank you for the floor, President. I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for this both exciting and, in our opinion, good proposal. Combating poverty is at the heart of social democracy, and we all have a special responsibility for the most vulnerable groups in our society. We believe that everyone should have the opportunity to participate in society through education, work and their leisure time. It is important that we invest in people. This applies in particular to the groups in society who are the target group for this proposal that we are discussing today. This is among other things. also because the Social Democratic Party has fought against the ceiling of cash aid and continues to fight against the re-priority contribution. That is precisely the opposite of investing in people. It is to make people poorer economically and socially, and of course we do not support that. I mention this in order to stress that, although this is a very fine proposal, it does not in any way correspond to the negative consequences of the government's, Liberal Alliance's, Conservatives and Danish People's Party's cash aid ceiling and re-priority contribution. Basically, we believe that the vast majority would like to take responsibility for their own lives, and we believe it is our job to ensure that they have the opportunity to do so either through education or work. That is why we are also in favour of the social card proposal. This can be a way of creating new ways of employment for vulnerable citizens. These are people who may find it difficult to meet the demands of the labour market, such as the United Kingdom. stable attendance or many hours of work a day. They can benefit from the opportunity to get small jobs where they are a few hours a week and, when they have a surplus, can come and do a paid job. It is good for them economically, but not least it can make a positive difference to them socially. They are given the opportunity to contribute with what they can and, at the same time, if they can use the social card to get closer to ordinary employment, it will only be a gain. The important thing is, of course, that they are recruited on proper pay and working conditions and that the salary they earn is not offset against their benefits. In the area of the Ministry of Employment, a project has been initiated under the rate pool to test how more vulnerable unemployed people can get a job. The aim is to give participants the confidence that they can get closer to the labour market. The intention behind the venture pool project is the same as with the proposal we are debating here today. Their content is also similar, even though the resolution appears less bureaucratic, which, of course, is preferable as a starting point. However, it would be foolish not to wait for the experience that comes out of the rate pool project. It will be quite classic that we start something in the bet pool without following up on it and then start something similar without knowing if it works as intended. That's not how we're gonna work. We would therefore call for the work of the committee to look at how to use the experience gained from the venture pool project to qualify for the excellent social card proposal that we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102019	There is a brief comment from Mrs Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102022	Thank you. I am, of course, pleased that the Social Democrats share the positive intentions in this with the social card. In relation to the experimental scheme mentioned by the rapporteur, which was agreed in the 2013 or 2014 rate pool negotiations, I am interested in hearing a little about the target group. As I see it, these are two very different target groups. In the experimental scheme set up in the pool of rates, the target group is activity-ready cash benefits recipients. This means that it is a target group of 100,000 people who are ready for activity. Our proposal here goes to the most vulnerable in our society, which is therefore light years from any kind of ordinary employment. So does the rapporteur consider that the target group is the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102115	No, the target group is not the same. I do not think I tried to express this in my rapporteur's speech either. However, there is some experience from the venture pool project that we may be able to use to qualify the proposal that you and the Radicals have put forward. That is simply what we have an intention to try to follow up in committee work, possibly through a joint report or the like.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102139	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102140	Thank you. Apart from the fact that the target group is not the same, I do not believe that the objective is in fact the same. It is clear that in the experimental system that has been set up, employment has been targeted; that more people must be employed, while the aim of our resolution is much more social. This is about the quality of life for a number of citizens and about ensuring that people can feel that they contribute to society and create value in society and have something to stand up for the days they can. That is why I think that the objective is quite different. So I have a lot of doubts as to whether we will really get anything out of looking at the evaluation of it, because I see our resolution as something quite different. I would just like to hear the rapporteur's position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102228	It is not necessarily because I think we are so far apart, except that we hope that it is possible to increase people's value in their everyday lives, and it is for the most vulnerable citizens, and that you can give them some content in a difficult life, hopefully it is also our intention to bring them closer to the labour market once they have the success experiences in everyday life. So I don't think we're so terribly far apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102255	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102257	I think it is really, really important and it is positive that the Socialist rapporteur welcomes this proposal. I think it is really, really important that we share a common understanding of who the target group is, and that is why I think it is at least reassuring at first that the Socialist rapporteur refers to the experiments and describes them as some where collective pay is given and so on. That is true, and that is the objective in any case. However, the people we are talking about are those who come to the rooms, who are often homeless and actually feel really, really bad and who need the recognition that lies in being part of a community. This is the beginning of life becoming more manageable. So if we can share that understanding, I'm very, very happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102356	We share that understanding. I just think we're hoping that the long-term feature of this is that people get closer to the labour market. However, I fully agree that, from the outset, this is a completely different target group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102416	There are no more brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102428	Thank you, President. This motion for a resolution is about vulnerable recipients of cash benefits. I think I will start by saying that the prelude to the motion for a resolution was perhaps not the very best. I think it would have been an advantage if the group that this includes had perhaps been described a little better in the motion for a resolution, so we would have had a slightly better impression of what groups it was, instead of just saying that it is Paragraph 81. But let's just leave it alone. We've got that figured out. It was just such a small remark. At the same time, the minister has promised to make an explanation of this group, i.e. how many people they really are, where they live in Denmark and what conditions they live in. I do not think that anyone in this group can be covered by the 225-hour rule, nor do I think that they are covered by the ceiling on cash benefits, because they probably do not have such expensive apartments that they get such a high level of housing benefits. I don't know, but I don't think so at the moment. So it is therefore a very special group and, as has been said, it may be homeless, and it may be some mentally ill who are on cash benefits and who have been placed there for ages, even if they should not be located there. They may be prostitutes, which has been said about, or they may be others. But we will have an explanation of that, so we will have an overview of what kind of group we are talking about. We must also be aware, as has also been mentioned here, that it cannot be compared with the experimental system. I thought so in the first place, just when I saw the resolution, but I have also learned that it is not possible to do so. Then forget about the trial scheme. These two things have nothing to do with each other. I also understand that for the kind of cash benefits recipients here with the conditions under which they live, it is the case that if they are going to have a day-to-day job, it is perhaps that way that they get a job and that it is not fixed how many hours it is on. But they get a job, and then they make 200 kroner. to carry it out. It can, for example, be done. be cleaning up in front of a store. These are the kinds of tasks involved. I see there's nodding, so I've hit the right track here. That's what it's all about. That is why it cannot be said that there must be a certain hourly wage in order to do that work. It may be that you get 200 kroner, or that you get a day's right to clean up somewhere. That could be the kind of thing you're thinking about. We in the Danish People's Party also think that it is commendable if you can help someone who is at risk in this way. That is why I think it is a good thing if we get a proper analysis of the group and then we work on it in committee, so that we get the right information and get the right group and agree on what we can offer them. Because it's not like you have to pay taxes. We also need to clarify whether it should be reported by the employer, i.e. reported by those who offer the work. What are the conditions there? There are many questions we need to clarify in the future. Because it shouldn't be the case that you suddenly put an employer in a pinch and say: You haven't reported that you had a homeless person to clean up in front of your store and maybe paid 200 DKK. To clean up the mess, and we're gonna come after you if you don't. This is the kind of thing we need to have in place, therefore, the fairness and bureaucracy of it. As I understand it, it should be something that is lenient, so that they may not have to make the big point of providing information. Because I don't think that a social security recipient who is in this situation is thinking that you might just have to tell the municipality that you just earned this. So let us work to clarify what this is all about. There I look forward to the explanation that the Minister has promised to make. Then we have a little to deal with, and then we will work on it in committee. However, as I said, the Danish People's Party is positive about this, and I think we will find a solution to it as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102829	Mrs Marianne Jelved for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102832	I am very pleased that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is identifying the target group we are talking about. So I am just sorry that I am surprised that it is the Minister for Employment who has it, and not the Minister for Social Affairs. So we have been too sympathetic by simply referring to section 81, which is about a group that really needs someone to take them in hand and help them. So I'd like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102905	Well, it's not easy to find out where it belongs either. Cash benefits fall under the responsibility of the Minister for Employment, but I understand that Article 81 falls within the remit of the Minister for Social Affairs, even if they receive cash benefits. It's mixed together in one light bulb, so it's not easy, and I fully understand that. I think we agree that this is a bit confusing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102926	Then we'll go over to mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102931	Thank you. I have also wondered a bit about what kind of jobs you are talking about... it's not really described... and what kind of terms you're imagining. However, I understand that the rapporteur has understood this in such a way that it is not really a job. I heard the rapporteur say: 'Well, that can be done, for example. be that you can get the day's right to go and clean up a bit of a restaurant or something. Is that how the rapporteur sees the jobs being set up here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523102959	Well, if I have understood the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Laura Lindahl, that is what we are thinking of. But sir can. Finn Sørensen asks Mrs Laura Lindahl if that is the case. But that's just the way I've understood it, so it's nothing with any real jobs, because you can't take that in that group. I'm not gonna be smart if I've understood it correctly, but sir... As I said, Finn Sørensen asked Mrs Laura Lindahl when she came up to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103025	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103027	Yes, I will certainly do that, but I just wanted to know if we should see the rapporteur's view of things in that way. But I guess you can ask two questions if it's that kind of job. Point 1: What barriers are there to do so today? And paragraph 2: How much integration into the labour market is there, if you do not get a collective wage for the few hours you can work, but instead get somebody I almost said alms, in terms of getting a free meal and things like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103102	In fact, I do not think it is possible for that group to be integrated into the labour market into collective pay in the way Mr. Finn Sørensen's thinking. Actually, I don't think so, because I don't think this group is ready to take a long-term job. But now the minister has to come up with an explanation of this group and what it is for a type of person who typically goes under section 81. And I do not expect you to be able to say: you must be subject to contractual working conditions. Because I think we're gonna lose that group completely if you make those demands. I think, sir. Finn Sørensen will have to ask the rapporteur for the authors a little more carefully what they have imagined here. But that is at least the way I have seen it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103153	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103202	Thank you. The Radical Left and the Liberal Alliance propose to introduce a social card for vulnerable citizens who are currently on public support. This would mean that this group could earn a small amount tax-free without deduction from social benefits. The intention of this proposal is very much in agreement with the Left, namely that we want to help and encourage vulnerable citizens to find a job, even if it is just a few hours or a little better than nothing. There is a constant need for the most vulnerable in our society to be encouraged and given good opportunities to work, for example. in small jobs of a few hours a week, and it must be more possible, and it must pay for the most vulnerable citizens, to take a job to the extent that they can do it. Therefore, it must be made easy for companies to offer small jobs to the most vulnerable citizens, even on a day-to-day basis. An experiment has already been launched today with vulnerable cash benefits recipients with day-to-day provision of small jobs as well as with a lighter deduction in cash benefits. But it is certainly worth considering whether we can create a system in which it is both attractive to work full time and for a few hours a week rather than to be on public support alone. As I understand the parties behind the proposal, this is about a very limited group of our most vulnerable citizens, where the road to full-time work is long and perhaps even very long, and where perhaps the current system in particular is slowing down their participation in the labour market. The Left has already helped to implement reforms that provide incentives for vulnerable citizens to take up a job and thus become self-supporting. Here we have implemented the cash aid ceiling, we have carried out a cash aid reform with a broad majority in the Folketing, and in connection with the cash aid reform we took a decision to launch an experiment which is currently taking place in 14 municipalities. Finally, I would like to say that the introduction of a social card for a limited vulnerable group of cash aid recipients needs to be considered: we need to clarify the group, the balance in relation to maintaining the incentive to take a full-time job, that the system must also be manageable administratively easily and simply, and, if necessary, any funding must of course also be included in these considerations. Against this background, the Left would like to state that we will consider how we can cooperate with the other parties of the Folketing on such a social card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103513	Sir. Finn Sørensen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103514	Thank you. And that is kind of the same question that I asked the Minister for Employment. This has little to do with this resolution, but because it is being argued that we must now create a system in which there are no barriers to taking small jobs. I don't really understand. We have just dealt with the law on the ceiling for cash benefits, which included the 225-hour rule, i.e. that we should do 225 hours of ordinary work a year if we are not to be penalised financially. And the main argument for that bill was that it was no problem, because with a few hours of work a week, you could free yourself from both the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule. So apparently there were no barriers to people going out and taking small jobs, even though they are not ready for activity and more or less far from the labour market and, for some, very far from the labour market. All they had to do was go out and take the little jobs. So what kind of system is the rapporteur now talking about to be introduced to make it easier to take these small jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103620	I think we are talking about two different groups. Here we are talking, as I understand it, about a very, very limited group, where taking 10, 15, 20 or 225 hours of work is not really realistic here and now. We are talking about people where 1⁄2 half hour or 1 hour within a week, and not necessarily on the same day of the week, can be a challenge. I do not think we are talking about the same group of people, and that is why we in the Left want to enter into these discussions with a positive mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103704	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103705	I fully agree with the proposers and the rapporteur that the group of people we are talking about here has enormous challenges, even in all kinds of ways other than just getting into the labour market. And these things are connected. But it is simply not true that they are two different groups. To the extent that the group referred to in the motion for a resolution receives cash aid, it is, after all, people who are categorized as active cash benefits recipients. It is therefore exactly the same group that is affected by the ceiling on cash benefits to the extent that they have a rent, they can pay a dwelling, which the majority of the group has or is affected by the 225-hour rule. There is, of course, a very great coincidence between the whole group affected by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, and then the group we are talking about here. So that is simply not right, and I just ask: why did one consider it easy to take small jobs when one had to implement the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, while suddenly a system has to be created where it is easy to look for small jobs? It doesn't really add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103813	I am of the opinion that the group we are talking about here is certainly the most vulnerable group at all when we talk about cash benefits recipients. They are unable to take a job so that they can work 225 hours in one year. I certainly don't think they are. That is why it is a question of saying: how can we create a stepping stone that allows them both to gain higher self-esteem, but also to move slowly towards being able to participate in a working community? And we would like to consider some answers to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103854	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no more brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523103909	Thank you. There are certainly some positive tactics in this resolution, as the previous rapporteurs have also noted. However, as has already been pointed out, there is at least a great deal of ambiguity which we must then hear the authors of the motion for a resolution on how they look at. There is an expression here in the motion for a resolution of concern for a very vulnerable group of people, and it is always pleasing when such proposals are made in this Chamber. But when you look at who the proposers are, it is a rather surprising concern, you might say. For the two parties, both together and separately, have contributed to several legislations and an economic policy that has made life much, much more difficult for exactly the group that is now to be helped. We can take such a thing as a much worse regulation of cash aid as a result of the 2012 tax reform and that priority has been given to an economic policy where it is more important to give some tax relief than to provide some welfare in the municipalities and for there to be a manning in the municipalities that can take care of the social policy efforts that this group so badly needs. One can think of the previous government's cash aid reform, and one can think of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. So the two parties individually and sometimes together have helped to make life considerably more difficult for this group here. That is why they should not be criticised for putting forward a proposal which might make life a little better for that group. There we welcome what is at stake is a more relaxed set-off in cash aid compared with the hours of pay available. There are already 25 kroner that you can earn without being offset in cash benefits, and so Enhedslisten was happy to raise it, because one of the major problems for this group is their economy. What we should then be aware of is that it raises a discussion as to why it should only apply to that group. For all sorts of other people on cash benefits who are in the same financial situation will of course say: Well, why not everyone who is on cash benefits? And it is Enhedslisten's view that it should do so. The same applies to the discussion on tax exemptions. If this can be done as part of a shift in the tax burden, so that a tax exemption at the bottom of society is financed by those who have so much pleasure in the many tax cuts that have been given, namely those at the top of society, then it is certainly worth considering. This should not necessarily prevent Enhedslisten from being involved in something in connection with this when we clear up some of the many ambiguities. But it is like saying that this proposal opens up discussions which may make it difficult to implement it, because there will immediately be discussions that if one group of cash benefits are to be granted a tax exemption, why not other groups? That discussion has to be taken with us. What I think is perhaps rather unclear in this proposal is what kind of jobs you are talking about and what your rights are to the extent that they work. Who are they actually employed by? Are they employed by the municipality so that they go out and work for the cash benefits, or is it an actual employment relationship with an employer? If that is the last thing, then it should be the case that you have to have some rights, no matter how few hours you work. The Enhedslisten's view is that at least the legislation on having a contract of employment must be complied with, because you are in a completely new situation and a vulnerable situation with an employer. And is that all you want to skip, or what? The Enhedslisten has the same attitude as the Social Democrats: although you can only work a few hours a week, you have to have a collective wage or what corresponds to it. We should not demand from the Danish Parliament that there should be an agreement. That is not the discussion we have. But it has to be a salary that corresponds to the contractual remuneration. It also has something to do with the ability of those groups to regard themselves as an equal part of the working community, and what lies in the proposal is, of course, that it would be good for them. And I think many of them would like that too. But it is a bad start if you do not basically have the same rights as others in the workplace where you work, but of course with the reservation that you can only work very, very few hours. Finally, I would like to say that it would have been nice if proposals had been put forward to ensure that we could make a proper social policy effort for this group. For that is probably what they need most in view of the cuts in the municipalities that have taken place for many, many years and the way the labour market has developed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523104423	Mrs Laura Lindahl has a comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523104425	It seems that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is more concerned with having state control over the labour market than actually helping the most vulnerable citizens in our society. So I would really like to hear if it makes an impression on the rapporteur that many of the user organisations that work every day with the most vulnerable in our society • it's the Men's Home, it's the Gadejuristen, it's the Users' Academy, it's the social workers themselves burning desire exactly this motion for a resolution adopted. The people who work with the most vulnerable in our society believe that there can be an increase in the quality of life in exactly the form we have presented here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523104512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523104513	I do not know what state control the rapporteur is talking about. The rapporteur will have to elaborate on this when the rapporteur is given the opportunity to do so. In fact, I believe that those organisations feel the same way as I do and, as most people do, that there are some very good intentions in this, but the discussion has already shown that there are also some unresolved issues. It is now the case that if we are to adopt something in the Folketing, we have to clarify what the consequences are for both the people concerned and for the scheme in question, but of course also what impact it can have on other laws and conditions. I guess that's natural enough. That's kind of why we're here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523104550	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523104552	The first priority is to increase the quality of life for these citizens. That is clearly our first priority, and that is also the first priority of users and user organisations. That is what they can clearly see, in other words, that this motion for a resolution and the possibility of a social card that we are proposing will increase the quality of life of these people. Why does the Enhedslisten not want to increase the quality of life of some of the most vulnerable citizens in our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523104619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523104620	Now I believe that a great many other good initiatives need to be taken to help improve the quality of life of these citizens. That is why I concluded my speech by saying that what the group of citizens most need is a proper social policy in this country. It is, in fact, the most important and proper framework conditions and a proper economy. This proposal may help some of the latter part of it, which is why we have not just poured it down the board, but, like the other rapporteurs, will of course go into committee and see if we can clarify the lack of clarity which is in the proposal on a few points.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523104659	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen has a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523104704	This proposal, as Mrs Lindahl mentioned, is not a proposal that we have taken out of thin air. This is a proposal that we have drawn up in cooperation with, for example, the Commission. Gadejuristen. And I just have to say that when you hear Mr. Finn Sørensen on the platform, sir. Finn Sørensen far, far away from the reality that exists quite a few hundred meters from here. These are some citizens who have no opportunity or chance of entering the ordinary labour market at 110 DKK. It's an hour. After all, these are wages agreed by the social partners, which are aimed at people who do not have social problems and who can enter the labour market. That's not the case for these people. It is also people who are tired of the existing social policy. These are people who actually have a lot of resources, and they would like to risk those resources in an unbureaucratic way by taking some small jobs, as you deal with an employer it may be a café owner, it may be, you have to clear out some chairs or clear them away again, but it's just very important to stick to the fact that these are some people who can't earn a salary of 110 kr. This is people who are so far away from the everyday life we know. It is people who find it difficult to show up on time and who do not always know what day of the week it is. They need something very, very simple. And there it is, sir. Finn Sørensen talks about regular employment and everything else. This has nothing to do with this group, I just have to say. I think it is a pity that the Enhedslisten, who otherwise says they care about the most vulnerable, rejects such a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523104851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523104852	Then I will be very brief: if people are to be employed by an employer, whether it is only 1 or 2 hours a week, regardless of how you agree to the location of that working time, then they must have some rights. But I can hear it coming out in the speeches here that they are not supposed to have that, and that is a fundamental problem of the proposal, and that is something we need to continue working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523104917	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523104919	The comment that Mr. Finn Sørensen just joined us, reflecting a complete lack of confidence in the people out there in the real world, both the employers we are talking about here and the vulnerable people that this proposal is supposed to help. It is such an idea of • it sounds as if employers are such evil people who want to exploit the worker, but that is not the case. It is indeed the case that there are a large number of employers who would like to make a social contribution, in this example by employing some people on different terms from day to day and building on confidence that some people would like to be helped. That is actually the way it is out there in the real world, and we do not think it should be blocked in here by having a lot of bureaucratic arrangements. We have to get rid of that so that people can get together • people who want to help each other and where both parties can benefit from it. That's what some of these people are looking for. Shouldn't we be listening to that, sir? Finn Sørensen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105031	It is true that we look at society completely differently. A long life on the labour market has taught me that it is a good idea for employees to have some rights, and that is why the trade union movement has built up agreements, and that is why we have created legislation on working conditions and other legislation to safeguard those in employment. Unfortunately, this is necessary because not all employers are as nice as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen describes it. If we are talking about this group, then I have the basic view that it would be right, very good, if we could get some initiatives going to bring that group closer to the labour market, to the extent that they have a surplus. It may also be in the form of very few hours a week, it may well be, Enhedslisten is very open to it. And I should like to point out here that we have already supported the development of social economic companies, which are a good instrument for this, if you like. But basically, if people are in an employment relationship with an employer, they must have some rights, and I can then hear from the rapporteur that you are not so interested in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105145	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105147	In my view, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is skilfully balanced, if I may say so, between two ways of looking at things. I basically agree that there must of course be rights in a labour market, but what we are talking about here is not a real labour market either. In fact, some employers have to do it on their own. You can't tell all employers to accept these people. It is of course some who report because they have a social consciousness. The former chairman of the Danish Employers' Association, Niels Fog, had a chain of merchants on the southern part of Zealand. He was the type who actually spotted some who were feeling really, really bad, and he gave them of himself a helping hand. He picked up, for example. The alcoholic who did not meet at work as agreed with the employer. There is a great difference between being in an ordinary labour market and the type of companies we see here. I'm just gonna ask you to do that, sir. Finn Sørensen to comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105255	I fully agree with Mrs Marianne Jelved on this, and I welcome the cooperation that we had during the last parliamentary term, when, fortunately, we had a majority in favour of implementing some good things, among others. a law on the registration of social economic undertakings. We also got a growth centre up and running to promote the development of social economic companies and local authorities' cooperation with them. For it is quite true that, just as there are employers who would like to come a little easy and very cheaply to the labour force, fortunately there are also employers who have a different attitude. These are, to a large extent, those who are engaged throughout the wider world in the social economy that is now. But it already exists today. Those opportunities already exist today, and the employers are already in the process. There's nothing in this proposal that's going to spread that sector. After all, this is in its substance and it's the only concrete thing in it that cash benefits recipients in this group need to have a lighter set-off and have to avoid paying tax. This is not something that changes anything in the way the labour market works.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105404	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105408	I do not imagine that what we are talking about here is social economic companies or something similar to that. It is not as organized as such a company is. That is why I do not wish to deny that some of those who are the target group here will at some point be able to fit into a social economic activity if they are given the opportunity to rehabilitate themselves as well as themselves. This is the rehabilitation process that we would like to set in motion as a stimulus for something more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105436	I think we all want to. And it would be nice if some more money were set aside in this country for a proper social policy that could help those people get started and that could make the municipalities far more open to finding those companies that would like to make that effort. I'm just saying that this proposal will not change that situation at all. After all, there are only two specific things in it, and this is a lighter set-off in the cash aid and tax exemption for this group. That's all there is. After all, there is nothing about everything else about how we create a labour market where there is actually room for such people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105515	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105536	Thank you. The motion for a resolution on social cards is a sympathetic proposal which will enable society's most vulnerable to earn a penny in a day without having to pay tax or be offset against benefits. As a starting point, we are inclined to support the proposal, and we look forward to moving forward with capturing it. However, we have a number of practical questions for the proposal to help make it work in practice, for example.: How much does a person have to work a day, a month or a year without paying tax or receiving offset benefits? Is there any minimum wage? What about the working environment? Should the municipality convey the small tasks, or can a merchant e.g. Find a day worker on the street or at the store? I would like to know whether we can get a little closer to that and whether the rapporteurs from the Radicals or the LA might be able to say what this will look like in practice. What is a practical example of this? How, for example, is this supposed to happen? You're gonna find this short-term worker until he gets paid? Can you get a little closer to that? In the alternative, we would like to help find answers to these questions, and I hope that the system will come out in a way that will allow us to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105656	There is a brief comment from Mrs Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105701	Thank you and thank you for your positive statement. I would have expected the alternative to be positive, because this is a new approach and a new approach to social policy, and not necessarily all the answers are available in the first place. But quite specifically, we know that there are companies on Vesterbro, for example. hotels and cafes that want to lift social responsibility in the vicinity, and it's kind of just meant for them, so they can offer some of these socially exposed jobs for 1 hour, for 2 hours, or whatever they can handle, and then they get cash when they're done doing their jobs. So it is very concrete, and I really just want to hear the alternative, whether it is precisely in the spirit of the alternative that you try to make things unbureaucratic, easily accessible and with the positive effect it can have on the lives of these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105756	Yes, it is in the spirit of the alternative. Local ingenuity and the ability to solve challenges and problems in very local contexts without putting a whole lot of things into action are certainly something we are in favour of. However, as I said, there are a number of questions and we need to find out how much money can be made a day, a week and a month. There are quite a few things that we are, of course, looking forward to helping to respond to and find answers to in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105824	The questioner? There are no more brief comments and the next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523105843	Thank you. A few years ago I visited a hotel called the Hotel, which had ten beds and which was actually a kind of social economic activity, without being so at the time. But there was a social worker employed by the City of Copenhagen who was in charge of that hotel and who had a number of the most vulnerable people in his bread, if I may say, who worked at the hotel when they could. She told me when I visited her and I asked her what we can do to get what she just needs, to make this work really well, that her biggest wish was an account in e.g.. 6,000 kr. a year that she could use for rewards when xx has so hard to meet on time. Because when he finally arrives on time, he must have a reward, etc. So she would like something that she could use to give a directional message to some of these people we're talking about. It is, of course, when we refer to social legislation, that is to say Article 81 of the Services Act, an expression of a social policy, and the municipal council must And one of the two things that may be the purpose of it is to improve the social and personal function and development opportunities of the individual, and the other, which I think it is worth considering, is to improve the individual's manifestation of life through contact, offers of association, activity, treatment, care and care. It is clear that, when I have discussed this proposal with them, the organizations, among other things, have discussed it with them. Landsforening af VæreSteder, says that it is just targeted the group of citizens who come with them. So it goes on something that is quite far away from the functions of the labour market as we know them. But it is clear that some of the task that everyone has mentioned and pointed out is of course to define the group. And how, then, do we really imagine that this is going to happen in the real world? Yes, we believe that one way could be to say that the social services of the municipality, which is of course in contact with these people, could give the individual a card which, like authorising him and showing the employer that he is actually one of the target groups who can sweep the farm for this and get money to do so, or you can pack boxes in the supermarket, mow the lawn or help the farmman in a property with apartments with different little things. What is central is to create the activity and social community and to have the personal function extended and to experience the manifestation of life, as stated in section 81 of social legislation. And the employers have to sign up. I want them to know that this is an opportunity if they have this social aim. I have talked to managers of a business in a large chain in Denmark who actually make an effort to spot the crooked existences and create some jobs for them, some job opportunities, but that is a completely different situation, because they can do more than the ones we are talking about here. But it is just to say that there are managers of companies who would like to try to create opportunities for people and who have the generosity, if I may say so, that they would like to contribute to that. Then questions have been raised about rights, particularly by Finn Sørensen. It is true that there must be some kind of right when you make an agreement with an employer, and we must also talk about how to do that. Because they should not feel that they can just be treated in any way, and there is, of course, a relationship, a relationship that must be taken into account. However, all the issues that have been raised here have given the Minister of Employment an undertaking to contribute to our understanding and that we can do so together because we have our different approaches to it and we have our different views on it. And we would very much like it to be a broad majority in the Folketing, not to say all the parties that can gather on this. Because this is an important effort, and we may also be able to contribute to a change in the attitude of some employers, by putting something like this in the sea, if that is the case. So it is a dialogue that needs to take place with the starting points that we now have as parties here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523110343	The President can confirm that it was a good accommodation that was at the hotel. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523110352	Thank you. I would just like to sign for the rapporteur's clear statement that there must of course be clarity about their rights. You can't rule out that it looks a little different than what we already know. We have to go into it openly and see if it can be handled. I am just glad of the announcement, because it was a slightly different statement that came from the other side of the House in some questions to me a moment ago. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523110421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523110422	I also made an effort to say that it is a form of rights, and it is not necessarily those we know in the labour market today. But of course there has to be an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523110432	Then we thank Mrs Marianne Jelved. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523110446	First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for trying to think about new ideas in relation to some of the most vulnerable citizens in this country. In SF, we think there are some very good intentions in this proposal and some opportunities for some of the most vulnerable to experience that they make a difference, that they can feel important and that they can get some kind of recognition for the efforts they make. In actual fact, I also consider the proposal to be a social policy proposal and not particularly employment policy, and that is why I am in the chair as social rapporteur on this proposal. After all, it is an attempt to create a simpler path to some small jobs to which they cannot necessarily commit themselves, but where the motivation may lie, that one can earn a penny from day to day, and that one can do something that is meaningful to others. Such a system needs to be flexible with regard to citizens with a very unstable life, but it can act as a small push to carry out some minor tasks that, as I said, are valuable and can at the same time give a little change in their pockets. So we are generally positive about the proposal because it has a social purpose. But it must also be said that there will be some issues in the work of the committee which we would like to have discussed, because there are also some concerns that have already been raised here in the past. One is: What is the target group? When we talk about the most vulnerable, what is exposure? We're gonna have to have a talk about that, too. Another question might be: is it only the local business community that should be included in the schemes, or could it be housing companies or municipal companies that could be part of such a scheme? It says that it is the municipality that must be the intermediary or that the citizen can get an authorisation card, as the radical rapporteur and co-sponsor said, but how do we ensure some form of registration or agreement, as has been said? Because if the citizen himself is now an intermediary, how do we ensure that, for example, there is no need for this? is a working environment where you don't get hurt? I'm pretty concerned about that. It does not have to be a nasty employer, but perhaps there will be some citizens who are not equally sober and straight every time they arrive, so what type of work are they doing? And what do you do if there's an occupational injury while they're doing that job? I am in favour of this being as little bureaucratic as possible, because we are talking about small jobs, so that bureaucracy has to match the scale and purpose, but nevertheless there are also some people's safety for which we are also responsible. As has been said earlier, how does the social card play along with the existing schemes in the cash benefits system? For well enough, the attempt that was made in connection with the 2013 cash aid reform is not quite the same target group, but I think it is really important that we do not make such bets, which are knob shots that overlap. We need to find out how they are then separated from each other so that we do not prevent anyone who might get closer to the labour market from getting there because they are then on this scheme. But I am also aware that this is an experiment that is being set up and an experiment which municipalities can voluntarily offer and which will have to be evaluated. So, for that reason alone, I also think there could be good reason to support that we find some form that can be tested. The free card is a good idea if we get the target group defined and if some of the questions I have mentioned can also be answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523110857	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. It didn't trigger any brief remarks. Then I would like to know whether there should be a Conservative rapporteur present. Mrs Laura Lindahl speaks for them. It's fine. Then we turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523110915	I should like to welcome the Conservatives, who could not be here, and say that they support the proposal. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that Denmark needs a new social policy, a policy that focuses on core services and sets red tape down, and which makes intelligent and empathic solutions for the socially vulnerable in our society. We have created a society in Denmark where it is immensely difficult to enter the labour market. We have high minimum wages, which means that we have a large target group outside the labour market which we really want to include in our society. It's utopia to think that you can have a society where no human being falls through. This happens because they have experienced early failures, have mental disorders or have otherwise lived in some social circumstances that have been beyond their control, and therefore we believe that a special social effort should be made towards these people. When we talk to people in the industry, user organisations, those who deal with this, they all say that there is enough money in the system, but that it is about how to spend the money best. There is also agreement that money is not best spent, as it is today, that it could be targeted much better. Our desire is to put in place concrete initiatives aimed at specific target groups that need help, and that is why we are proposing to introduce a social free card, because some people are the best therapy, the best help, to feel appreciated, and to be able to contribute to society. And it may be that you can only contribute 1 hour a week one week, and then 14 days will pass before you have the chance to contribute 1 hour again, but the hope is that there will be more of the good days and that there will be more of the good hours where you can contribute. We do not believe that these people are going to be self-supporting, we do not believe that these people will ever be completely outside public support of any kind, because these people are very, very far from the ordinary labour market, but we believe that their quality of life, if we give them the opportunity to move closer to the labour market, if we give them the opportunity to contribute as far as they can, will increase and we believe that 1 good hour can be more good hours. As I mentioned earlier in a question to one of the rapporteurs, this is about the fact that right now there is a gap between a labour market where there are really high entry barriers and a target group excluded by society, and what we are trying to do with this is to build a bridge between this target group and our labour market. This is not an easy solution, but this is a bid, and I fully recognise that there are a great many unresolved issues which I welcome the Minister will help us to get concrete and wiser, but this is for us to set a political vision, a political desire, in relation to where we want to go and what we can do for these people. And then it is true that there are a lot of unfinished business that we will have to put ourselves together afterwards in committee and agree on how to clarify. But I am glad to hear that all the parties are positive about the intention, that all the parties share our desire to include these people, and then we have to figure out how to do it in an easy, unbureaucratic way, so that we actually build this bridge between a target group and a labour market. So thank you for the positive statements, thank you for a good debate, and I look forward to the continued work of the committee and to the Minister returning with some help to us this autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523111316	The debate is not quite over yet. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523111320	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for recognising that there are quite a few things that have not been resolved, and we must then continue to work on that. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what is it quite specifically in the existing rules that prevents this group from entering a company in some way and contributing some work for a few hours? What is it in the existing rules? Now I am not talking about the labour market, because there we fully agree that for that group there are quite insurmountable barriers because of the demands made by employers. But in relation to the rules, what is it that stands in the way of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523111407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523111408	In the rules there are many possibilities, as it is today, but the problem is that the jobs are not there to this extent. The problem is that these companies that we would like to have to bid see that there is so much bureaucracy associated with one hour for a single citizen per month that it is not worth it for them. Indeed, there are companies that have taken hold of us and have said that they want to contribute here, that they want to bid and help in their local area and take social responsibility, and we want to make this as easy as possible for them. Then, of course, there's this part with the cash settlement, when you're there, you're going to have some sort of arrangement where you can come and wipe the café tables off, and then you can get 150 kroner. in the hand. After all, we want to give the citizens that opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523111506	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523111507	Thank you. Yes, but can we not know what kind of bureaucracy is in the way of that? These are the rules we are talking about, and that is what we can do in the Folketing. Unfortunately, we cannot dictate that we should now have a spacious labour market if we could, we did, it is absolutely certain. Unfortunately, we cannot do that, but we can look at the rules and there are probably a lot of inappropriate rules that we could change and that could help an objective that we now agree on all. But what kind of bureaucracy is it in this case that the rapporteur wants to abolish? For example, is it... the fact that there is to be an employment contract? Is it that there are some health and safety rules that need to be complied with? Is this the kind of thing the rapporteur thinks about with bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523111550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523111551	No, I believe that health and safety legislation should be respected, and I do not think that we should start dispensing from that. But I am thinking of the situation where you as a citizen can walk past a café and that you can say: you are dragging tables out, may I give you a hand, because I have a good day today, and I have a few hours, so I can give you a hand? Then the café owner can say: You are very welcome, how long can you spend? And then the individual citizen can give a nap with for an hour or two and get a cash settlement and walk away. It is a very concrete opening that would make the labour market more inclusive, because it would be easy and unbureaucratic for the individual company, and that would be easy and unbureaucratic for the individual citizen, and that is what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523111642	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. No one else has asked to speak, and the debate is therefore over. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. If no one objects, it has been adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523111703	The debate is open. The Minister for Employment is the first to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523111733	Thank you. The alternative has tabled a motion for a resolution obliging the ATP to phase out its investments in coal, oil and gas production. The proposal must ensure that investments take social and environmental sustainability into account. It is planned to amend the ATP Act so that social and environmental sustainability considerations become a legal requirement in relation to ATP's investments. I would just like to start by reminding you that ATP is an independent, self-serving institution led by its own board of directors and its own board of directors, composed of the social partners. As Minister for Employment, therefore, I do not have any powers of instruction in relation to the day-to-day management of the ATP. I also think it is important to look at the background to the ATP. ATP is a wide-ranging supplementary pension which includes both employees and persons on transfer income. For many, ATP remains the only supplementary pension they have for their retirement pension. And ATP is set in the world to secure the best possible pensions for its members. ATP is therefore obliged to manage the Danes' savings in order to secure the best possible pension when they get older. This is the focal point of ATP's investment business, and ATP may not use its members' pension funds for any other purpose, regardless of how socially beneficial they may be. It was also established at the first reading of the ATP bill in 1963, although it was not environmental issues but business policy that was discussed. Questions were raised at the time to the then Minister for Labour, Erling Dinesen, on the rules governing the placement of funds in the ATP, and he indicated that the rules were not intended to give the social partners access to active industrial policy and that the location of funds should take place solely in the interests of the pension fund. But that doesn't mean that ATP doesn't take social responsibility. It is the Board of Directors of ATP that sets out the investment strategy. ATP has informed me that ATP's work on social responsibility is based on the Board's guidelines on social responsibility in investment and on the board's policy on active ownership. The guidelines on social responsibility in investment show that ATP's work on social responsibility covers a wide range of socially relevant issues in the fields of environment, social conditions and management, the so-called ESG themes: environmental, social and governance issues. The aim is to protect the value of ATP's investments through focus on and respect for social responsibility, while at the same time benefiting the affected employees, businesses and communities. The guidelines require the companies in which ATP invests. Firstly, they must respect the law and the law of the countries where they operate. Secondly, they must respect the rules, standards and standards resulting from conventions and other international agreements to which Denmark has acceded, regardless of whether the country in which the company operates has acceded. I think we can all agree that social responsibility is most often a prerequisite for sustainable, good investment and, therefore, for maintaining the value of investment. Rejective considerations and considerations of social responsibility will therefore most often, especially in a slightly longer perspective, draw in the same direction. I have full confidence that ATP's board manages to maintain a balance between these considerations; that they both manage to focus on social responsibility and create a good return. If ATP is required by law to invest in certain companies or to be prevented from investing in companies that can ensure the best possible return, it will basically break with the aim of ATP, and ATP will not have the same opportunity to secure the best possible pensions for its members. With those comments, the government does not believe that the rules applicable to the ATP should be changed and the government cannot therefore support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112300	There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112304	Thank you, Minister. Now the Minister says that the state cannot interfere with the ATP because ATP is a member-based pension company. I would say to that that the ATP does not work on market terms, in other words employees in Denmark are obliged to pay for the ATP. And according to the ATP Act, it is also the State that appoints ATP's management, and in this way there are not the same competitive conditions as other pension companies. Does not impress the Minister that ATP is number 95 on the list called Global Climate Index in relation to making climate-friendly investments, where for example: PKA is number 7 and is rated as status C?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112404	There are many things in ATP's operation that impress me. I am very familiar with the development of ATP, and I have enormous respect for the way in which both ATP's board of directors and board of directors develop ATP, so that they repeatedly ensure a return to those who depend on their return, which is fair, while, overall, they have a management of their social responsibility and of their active leadership, which I believe is overall at the top of the world and a lead for many other pension companies both in Denmark and abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112452	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112453	There's the minister and I probably didn't quite get on the line. ATP's assets are approx. 600 billion kr., and of this they invest 1 billion. kr. in climate and energy technology. In addition, the main negative returns in 2014 and 2015 have come from oil investments. In 2014, ATP lost 2.1 billion. kr. in oil investment and had a total positive result of 6,1 billion. kr. The Minister must acknowledge this, then, is such a nicely large amount of loss that comes from fossil energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112531	I fully agree with that. It is quite a large amount, and it is a large amount, which also causes massive problems for the Danish Treasury and which, in other words, potentially costs employment if no corrections are made. So I fully agree that this is a large amount of money, but it is also an illustration of the fact that, in my opinion, we do not have a reasonable basis here, either on the part of the Danish Parliament or as legislators, for establishing guidelines on how to place our investments in a turbulent world. It is a board that is responsible for it, and the board must be accountable here in relation to a board of directors and must, of course, follow the legislation in force in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112623	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112626	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it would be irresponsible for employees' savings in the ATP to implement the alternative's proposal that ATP's investments should take sustainability into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112647	It is my view that the full responsibility for managing ATP's funds should lie with the board of directors of ATP and that the board of directors of ATP should have the same room here in order to manage the responsibilities of the other social insurance companies in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112711	I think that everyone who follows this remark remarked that the Minister would not answer my question, so I am trying again: does the Minister think it would be irresponsible to change the legislation so that the ATP should also take into account sustainable investment? Wouldn't the Minister like to deal with that? Because if it is not irresponsible, I do not see at all what the problem is, and if it is irresponsible, then we have a rather larger discussion about what investment policy should be for fund funds at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112746	As I said, it is my view that it would not be appropriate and that it would be undesirable for all the people who depend on ATP's return and it is, of course, the most weak wage earners who are most dependent on it if the Danish Parliament gave the board of directors of ATP a tighter framework for their management of the funds than, for example, in the United Kingdom. The social insurance companies have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112814	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112816	Thank you. After all, ATP members are me and everyone else who has had a job and been an employee. We're simply forced to be part of this, and we can't choose it from. Does the Minister not consider it particularly important that ATP's investments support, for example, the Paris Agreement, which is legally binding, rather than countering it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112848	We are, after all, forced members of the ATP in the same way as very, very many employees in Denmark are also compulsory members of the occupational pension companies. And as I mentioned, it is my overall assessment that the way the boards of the Danish occupational pension companies and the board of ATP manage their social responsibility and their active ownership is one of the best things we see in the world. It is one of the most responsible, and it is often guidelines for other companies around the world. I do not think it would be appropriate for us to start setting a narrower framework for the ATP. We cannot create a narrower framework for occupational pension companies, and if we implemented the proposal, we would give the ATP less opportunities to manage their investments than, for example, the ATP. social insurance companies and this would be detrimental to the weakest citizens of our employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112948	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523112949	Can the Minister not see the problem in that I, who has been an employee for many years, have been forced to pay for this? We do not live up to what we are actually legally obliged to do in relation to the Paris Agreement, and it may be a problem for some employees that they are forced into this without being able to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113013	I do not wish to comment here on whether the ATP or other companies are legally fulfilling some obligations. In other words, if some people do not believe that the companies are fulfilling the obligations to which they have to comply, I assume that something is being done about it adequately. On the basis of the information I have, I have full confidence that the ATP exercises legal management of the investments they make.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113040	Thank you to the Minister in this round. After all, the minister stays with us all... sorry, there's one more brief remark I missed, but we'd better take it with us. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113053	It came late, too. I would just like to hear: is there any other consideration that the Minister could imagine taking in relation to the investment of ATP other than, what can be said, pure profit?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113113	ATP's board of directors, as the questioner knows that I know quite well from the years this has been developed, takes very many other considerations than short-term profits. They take very many social considerations into account, they take development considerations, they take long-term sustainability considerations. In fact, as I said, I believe that the way in which both the social insurance companies in Denmark manage their social responsibility and their active ownership is a guiding principle for many other pension companies in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113148	Then we say thank you to the minister in this round... he's with us all day and maybe even some of the evening. We shall now move on to the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113211	Thank you for the floor, President, and also thank the authors of this proposal. Although we cannot support the proposal, we nevertheless believe that there are a great many good intentions in it, and indeed we share quite a few of the comments made by the Minister. First of all, the reason why we cannot support this proposal is that we cannot take part in changing the structure of the ATP, as the Minister said. In fact, we think it is positive in many ways that the board of directors of ATP acts independently and with the aim of making money for its pension customers. The second is that we are living at a time when, as Mrs Josephine Fock mentioned in her question to the Minister, there is a negative return on investment in many of the types of energy investment that actually harm the environment and damage the climate, which also means that it must be the responsibility of a responsible board to move investment in a different direction, as other pension companies do, among other things. PensionDenmark, which takes the lead in this respect, but also others who slowly begin to move in this direction. We also think it is sensible that employees' representatives should be involved in managing their own money, and that is why we cannot support the element of the motion for a resolution which means amending the law on ATP and thus also in the construction of the ATP. The last thing is that, in addition to sharing the alternative's intention to reorganise what is also part of the energy strategy, which was created in 2011 so that you go from fossil fuels to green energy, we believe that it will also have very far-reaching consequences if it is to be pricked out what it is you have to invest in and what it is you cannot invest in. I mean, that would be one of those things. could have had the consequence that ATP could not have been part of the group that invested in, among other things. DONG Energy here recently, and DONG Energy is actually, regardless of what you might think of the others who shot in capital, helping to make a whole range of investments, which are just part of this transition, which is about moving towards a much more sustainable and much greener way of producing energy. So, in addition to what the Minister has said, I would just like to say that the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution, although there are good intentions in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113444	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113447	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for all the words of appreciation. What the Minister said about where the Minister said that ATP is the lead is not correct when we look at the rating that ATP has. Does it not impress the rapporteur at all that the ATP is actually really, really low and is only rated as C in relation to climate and environmental considerations? And does the rapporteur not agree that this should be changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113517	Yes, it makes an impression, and I myself, as a member of a trade union, would take it up with the leaders of the union and say: you have to make some demands on the way ATP invests. However, I do not believe that we in the Danish Parliament should interfere by law in what ATP invests in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113540	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113542	Well, now that ATP is a special structure and not the same as the ordinary occupational pensions, I think we can agree on that, so I think that as legislators we have a special responsibility. And to associate ourselves with COP21 with the legally binding targets must be linked, that is, that our policies should be linked?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113606	Yes, I think we have a special responsibility for that too. I just do not share the way in which the motion for a resolution has been put forward here, which would mean a change in the structure of the ATP and one that I mentioned earlier in the case of DONG, the interpretation of when something is right to invest in and when something is not right to invest in. After all, I believe that it should be the responsibility of a board of directors in relation to the capital they manage to move investments when you can see that there is a negative return on investing in, among other things. oil business, etc., in a different direction, as other pension funds do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113644	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113648	Thank you. So, ATP is regulated by law, so I do not see that there is any legal problem in adopting an amendment to the ATP Act as proposed by the Alternative. If that is the case, the rapporteur would like to explain to me what the legal problem is. So perhaps the rapporteur could begin by explaining it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113714	I do not think I have said that there was any legal problem in this. What I have said is that I think it makes sense for the ATP to be managed in this way and that those responsible for managing capital have been appointed by the various organisations that are now sitting there and, moreover, act independently of legislators.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113734	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113736	So I do not see that in the alternative proposal there is any proposal to change the structure of the ATP. I don't understand. In other words, as I understand it, we in the legislature are making an addition or a change to the legislation on ATP, which is about ATP's investments having to take into account the excellent principle proposed by the Alternative. Why does it have to be so hard to be involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113803	The motion for a resolution says, among other things, that:: • With this bill, the structure must be changed to the extent that the Danish Parliament must be able to demand that the investments flee with Denmark's overall objectives for the development of society... •. This will mean a change in the structure, and that is where I believe that, on the basis of perfectly obvious logic, the board of directors should move the investments themselves in the direction in which they generate returns and in which the overall social and social objectives which other pension funds can find a way of pursuing are pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113840	There is another comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113845	In line with what has just been asked, I would just like to ask whether it is not a special situation when, as ordinary employees, we are forced into this scheme. And when there is legislation that says that it is economic interests through the greatest possible return that needs to be made, it is not fair enough and it is time to say that we are revising the law so that it actually fits the society in which we live and the agreements that we, for example, have. In Paris, too, did it concern ordinary employees who have no influence on what is invested in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523113925	I always think that we can discuss whether we have properly arranged the legislation on pensions, but that does not change the fact that I think that what should be the task of the people who manage the capital that ordinary employees themselves have helped to save is also to ensure a proper return. What is happening in these years, as Mrs Josephine Fock herself said earlier in her question to the Minister, is that there is a negative return on what is environmentally unhealthy investment and that there is a higher return on what is, in the environmental sense, sound investment. It should, of course, just be my simple point, be up to the Board of Directors to ensure that investments are going in that direction, because that is actually their task.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114009	I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not think that this is a particular construction because, as an employee, we cannot say 'no' if we compare with other pension companies. Do we not then have a social obligation, in addition to guaranteeing the economic return and seeing whether investing in different areas will yield economic returns? Is it not a special responsibility, and can we not therefore argue that the law must be revised so that it is better suited to the society in which we live?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114043	Yes, I recognize that it is a special construction. I also recognise the intention of the proposal, and I also think that it is a good debate to take. I just do not agree with the resolution tabled here that this is the way to drive investment in this direction. As I mentioned earlier, it can also have quite far-reaching consequences if we are to assess right now and here and constantly who is investing green today and who is not investing green today. At the same time, there are large companies in transition. This concerns, among other things, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. ATP's investments in DONG. They are investing in a company that is moving from black energy to green energy, and I think that is positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114126	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114128	If it turns out that the ATP continues to invest blackly and does not understand in any way the business logic that the rapporteur is proposing, is there anything that the rapporteur could imagine doing to help the ATP to invest more green and more socially in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114148	So I am not a dogmaticist, nor do I think I belong to a dogmatic party, so it also means that if it is in the future that you can see that the ATP does not start to move their investments in a direction that reflects some different objectives, while not taking into account the fact that there is much greater return on green energy investment than on black energy investment, then it is clear that you have to return to that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114219	How long is the rapporteur prepared to wait for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114223	That's where I'm gonna have to stay, sir. Torsten Gejl answer guilty. I cannot put that on a number of years or months or so, but I would like to think about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114233	Thank you, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114242	Thank you, President. This resolution is about the fact that the proposers of the Alternative obviously do not want the ATP to invest in oil, gas and coal production. That is quite understandable, because it is in line with the policy of the alternative that we want to move to green energy. We do not entirely share the view of the Danish People's Party, because we are not in favour of banning oil, gas and coal production, at least not at this stage. It may be that you change your mind about it in the future, but right now and here we certainly do not. We are fully confident that ATP's Board of Directors assesses where they can get the best return for their members. After all, we expect the board of directors of ATP to manage the members' money at all times in the best possible way and with the greatest possible return, so that the members can receive the highest possible ATP pension when they are once entitled to it. And how they do it, I don't think we should interfere. It was something else if you had a direct ban on the production of these things in Denmark, but we do not. Then you could start discussing it and whether it was reasonable that you should invest in it in other countries. However, as I said, we just do not have the same attitude and approach to the problem here, and we fully support ATP's planning of investments where they believe they can get the best return. Nor is it the case, as was said, that one is forced to join the ATP. Yes, you are forced to participate in a supplementary pension scheme where you receive something, in the same way as with an occupational pension. If you are on the labour market and under a collective agreement, you are also forced to participate in occupational pensions. And then maybe you should go inside and see how they invest, if that's what you want. But we just don't want that in the Danish People's Party. We trust that ATP's management invests in the best possible way and with the greatest possible return to their members. Then, of course, we also expect the ATP, if they have some investments that make a deficit, to look at what they should do with them, if it was not fair to say that then you drop those investments and find some other investments that give a better return. That's what a responsible board always has to do. They must work for the benefit of their members. However, the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114525	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114528	Thank you to the rapporteur. I almost get the impression that the Danish People's Party does not support the Paris Agreement, i.e. that we have agreed that we are max. must have a temperature increase of 2 degrees and that two-thirds of fossil energy must remain in the ground so that we can hope to achieve it at all. And this resolution has to be seen in this context. Can it be true? Is it not a goal that the Danish People's Party supports?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114554	I think that discussion is better in the Committee on Energy and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy where they sit and plan this. As labour market rapporteur, I look at ATP's investments. The agreements that have been made to reduce the temperature are divided. I understand that the alternative is one hundred per cent in favour of the agreements to reduce the temperature, but there are differences of opinion as to how this should be achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114631	Should I understand that the Danish People's Party does not agree with the legally binding agreements concluded in connection with COP21?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114643	I do not think it has anything to do with the right of the board of directors of ATP to invest members' funds where it provides the best possible return. You shouldn't get involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114656	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114659	It was actually a bit in the same line, because, as we have also discussed in the past, ATP's members are quite ordinary Danish employees who are forced into this. Then the rapporteur does not think it is important and particularly important that ATP should live up to, for example. The Paris Agreement, which is actually legally binding?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114726	What this is about is that it is important that the ATP complies with their obligation to provide their members with the highest possible return on the funds contained in the ATP. The people who get ATP paid out are happier, the higher the payout they get. That is what this is all about. I do not want to go into the discussion about whether the ATP should meet some commitments on climate change worldwide. That's not what ATP's put in the world for. These are some other tools that are needed in this regard, but we should not legislate for the ATP to go in and make environmental measures around the world to reduce temperature. That is not what ATP's management has as its task.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114816	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114817	Well, now it's ordinary employees who are forced to be part of this. Does the rapporteur think that ordinary employees are generally only interested in the best possible economic return? Or does the rapporteur think that there could be some of these employees who are also interested in the climate, for example, and that we are living up to the agreements we have made in connection with the Paris Agreement, which are legally binding?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114855	I guess we have different associations now. But if we look at this with ordinary employees and what they are interested in, then I can say that I have not yet met anyone who has said: it is also quite wrong for the ATP to invest in this, because now we have to comply with the climate targets; now you have to intervene so that they drop those investments. I have not heard any employee say that to me, and I have a great touch on it. It may well be that in the alternative there are some who care much more about it, but I have not met anyone with the large interface I have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114938	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr. Hans Andersen and is from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523114950	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the alternative has proposed taking into account social and environmental sustainability in ATP's investments. First of all, it is important to bear in mind that ATP is set in the world to provide customers with all of us with as good a pension as possible for our old age, which means that ATP's task is to ensure the maximum return. ATP already has guidelines for responsible investments which follow accepted standards and international conventions, for example. The United Nations Global Compact or OECD guidelines for multinational companies. The Left does not believe that we, as legislators, should set a further narrow framework for ATP's investments. ATP works with social responsibility. The guidelines for social responsibility, socially responsible investments are the responsibility of the Board of Directors, and there is also the responsibility of the Board of Directors for politically active ownership in their investments. We do not think there is a need for us to further narrow the framework of legislation in favour of the work of the ATP, which is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution. And I welcome the Conservatives, who unfortunately cannot be here today, and say that they cannot support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523115149	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523115151	Thank you to the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur on the Left not have the impression that the ATP is so badly up to the climate strategy we have in Denmark as well when we have adopted COP21? We can see that they really, really do not subscribe to the list of climate investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523115212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523115214	I am sure that ATP's Board of Directors is doing everything it can to work sensibly to secure the funds the best possible return. However, I am also informed that the ATP works in such a way with principles that focus on the protection of human rights by companies, the maintenance of workers' rights, environmental challenges, accountability and environmentally friendly technologies. So they're actually working on these principles. I believe that we will also be able to see it in the future. I am sure they will move up in the statistics of which the alternative is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523115300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523115301	I certainly hope that these are some statistics that the Left is concerned with, namely that we ensure that we live up to COP21, which is a legally binding agreement. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur drew almost the same line between the best possible old age and the maximum possible economic return, as I understood it. In relation to the best possible old age, is there nothing at all about the fact that we also have a planet on which we can all live and on which we can ensure that we also exist in the future? Is that not something that needs to be taken into account at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523115331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523115332	Absolutely. And that is why I also welcome the fact that ATP can actually invest in DONG, because if we now followed the alternative's proposals, there would be problems in relation to ATP being able to invest in DONG and thus help to make Denmark a greener and even better place to live. So I think there is a challenge here. If you follow the alternative's proposal to the letter, it will of course cut off ATP from making, I think, really sensible investments for the benefit of all Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523115407	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523115426	Thank you. I think it is a really disappointing treatment that this bill has received so far. Seen with Enhedslisten's glasses, it is a very good proposal that we will warmly support. I think that the objections that come up miss something. There is already legislation regulating how to invest, namely to ensure the highest possible return, so I cannot see, and the Socialist rapporteur also confirmed that there is something legal to prevent us from adopting such a proposal. Then the Minister refers to the start of ATP in 1963. It was, after all, in the context of the so-called overall solution, where the aim was to include some wage increases and to limit wage developments in this country. In order to help it, a compulsory saving was introduced, which was then called the supplementary pension for the labour market. There was also a higher purpose in reducing the tax-financed national pension in the long term, that is to say, the cost of it, because more was required for employees themselves to save up for their old age. We could then have a long discussion about the sensible thing in it, but I take it with me to stress that it is the employees' own money that we are talking about here. It is therefore perfectly legal that we in the Danish Parliament, as proposed by the Alternative, have a discussion on what principles should be the basis for the investments, which the country's largest bank account is worth 600 billion. kr. It has a huge impact on the development of not just our society, but actually throughout the world, how we invest that money. And with it adopted as legislation, it is also reasonable that the Folketing should discuss which guidelines should apply to it. So I have to say to the Minister and to all the other parties that there has been a great deal of toxic manure in the watercourses since 1963. A great deal of CO2 has been released since 1963, which is why it is quite appropriate to discuss such a proposal. The globe screams for sustainable economy and sustainable investment. Then I would just like to welcome a small point that has not been mentioned yet, which is not so small, and it is also part of the fact that, as part of sustainability, efforts should also be made to invest in companies where there are well-ordered conditions for employees, that is to say agreements and such things. It is perfectly legal and sensible for us to discuss this. Then you talk about not narrowing the framework. But what kind of framework do we have today? It is surely a rather narrow framework that animates companies to what is termed short-term profits, without looking at the long-term consequences of the investments they make. The Enhedslisten will support the proposal. And then I would just like to ask questions about the change in the structure of ATP... I can't really read it in the proposal... when the Alternative's rapporteur gets on the platform. Indeed, I believe that it is perfectly possible to implement this proposal without interfering with the way in which ATP is structured. However, this is, after all, a legal detail which could be clarified in the further work on the proposal, to which Enhedslisten naturally wishes to contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523115803	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no brief comments. And I see that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is ready to fight, so we welcome Mr. Joachim B. Olsen on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523115818	Thank you very much. With this proposal, the alternative will introduce legislation that will prevent ATP from investing in coal, oil and gas production. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that this is a deeply unsympathetic resolution. ATP must ensure a return to employees; it must ensure a return which makes employees have something to live on when they retire. It is good for employees and it is good for society as a whole. In addition, energy is a fundamental prerequisite for lifting people out of poverty. The alternative does not seem to have much to do with it. Coal, oil and gas still stand away for between 80 and 90 per cent. of the world's primary energy consumption. When billions of people over the last decades have been lifted out of poverty, have been given access to better education and better health and thus have a longer life span, better life, then it is due to access to energy. Making energy more expensive, making access to energy more expensive, will prevent people from being lifted out of poverty and getting a better life. It may seem irrelevant when you are a member of the Alternative and live in Denmark, but it does not matter to real people in the Third World. That is why we cannot support this motion for a resolution. We believe that this is basically an unsympathetic and de facto motion for a resolution. If, on the other hand, the alternative is that employees should be given more resources for their own pensions, including the placement of pension funds, then we are willing to discuss it. But this is a different debate from the one that has been set up here and, as I said, we cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120057	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120100	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think the rapporteur agrees with the alternative that pension companies have a great deal of money to invest. And in relation to investment, the alternative is that pension companies help to invest in companies that deliver sustainable solutions, including in the Third World. So, does the rapporteur not agree that we have a challenge when two thirds of our fossil energy is to remain in the earth according to our binding agreement of COP21? Then we also need to look at other companies, and thus pension companies could be a very important lever in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120140	At some point, we will stop using fossil fuels. This development will take place. When we do that, it will probably be at a time when the known reserves of fossil fuels will be bigger than ever. But we will change anyway because there will be technologies that will simply make it cheaper to use non-fossil fuels. This is a good development. But pushing that development through will cost the poorest people in the world a great deal, because it is essential for them that they have access to cheap energy. This is a prerequisite for building prosperity, and prosperity is a prerequisite for meeting the challenges we face in the future. The richer a country is, the easier it will be to meet the challenges that will come in the future. Any climate change and its consequences will hit a prosperous country like the Netherlands much less than a poor country such as the United Kingdom. Bangladesh. That is why prosperity is the way to solve the challenges we face in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120305	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120306	I am very pleased that the rapporteur recognises the need to invest in climate-friendly technology. That is what we want to push for with this proposal, and that will also benefit the Third World. Does the rapporteur not find it at all problematic that the ATP is so far down on the list compared to, according to the rapporteur, being on the trend of investing in environmental measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120336	No, we do not find that problematic at all. As I said, the ATP is set in the world to ensure a return on employees. It is good that that is what they are focusing on, and they must continue to focus on that. It is not only good for employees in Denmark, it is also good for citizens in poor countries that companies with production in their countries, including the production of fossil fuels, are being invested, because access to fossil fuels is still a prerequisite for growth and prosperity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120416	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120418	Thank you. The rapporteur now calls it an unsympathetic proposal, and I think it is very sympathetic that the rapporteur is concerned about the poorest people in the world and has it angled in this way. Now it is the case that climate refugees are one of the biggest challenges in the world today, and Bangladesh, which is mentioned, is in fact one of the main challenges facing it. So I don't quite understand why we have to bring Bangladesh into this right now. After all, ATP is not an ordinary company structure. It is, of course, a construction in which, as an ordinary employee, you are forced to be part of it and to be part of that investment. I would like to ask the rapporteur again here how the rapporteur feels about the legally binding agreement we made in Paris. What is the rapporteur's position on this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120521	Well, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we are willing to discuss whether the pension system can be adjusted differently so that employees have access to the placement of their pension funds. We are very willing to discuss this. In relation to these binding agreements that have been made, we do not support them. We think it is the height of arrogance that we, as humanity, should be able to decide that the temperature should be reduced far, far into the future or that we should be able to determine how much it might increase. We don't have much confidence in that. What we trust is that it is crucial for humanity, and it is such words that are used in this debate that a world policy is being pursued that will enable people to be lifted out of poverty. For that is the prerequisite for solving all other challenges. After all, there are other challenges in this world than climate challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120632	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120634	I understand that the Liberal Alliance and the rapporteur do not recognise that we are legally bound by that agreement in Paris. What I would like to hear a little more about is one of the first things the rapporteur said. Will the rapporteur elaborate on this, as I have heard, that we must work to ensure that we have the money actually put into pension companies and the money that is being invested? I would like to hear the rapporteur elaborate on what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120707	Well, it's so simple. Today, you are forced to pay for the ATP. We could well imagine saying that employees were given a right of self-determination over where their pension funds should be placed. It might be that some would place them in shares themselves; it might be that some would use some other kinds of pension savings options. We are in favour of freedom, including freedom to dispose of one's own pension funds. But that is not what we are discussing with this alternative resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120744	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120746	Now it is the case that we are also proposing in the alternative that we should be able to invest in social efforts through, for example, ATP. With the rapporteur's concern for the poor in the world, would the rapporteur think that this is a route that could possibly be taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120805	It is not such initiatives that lift people out of poverty. It's not foreign aid or anything else either. What has given the extremely positive development we have seen over the past decades, that is, that billions of people have been lifted out of poverty, is due to the fact that the world has become more free and open; that the market economy, trade between nations has grown; that investments are being made across borders. It lifts people out of poverty, not state pools for social investment, which represents an extremely small amount compared to the total investment made through a free and open global market economy. If you want people to get out of poverty, and we do that in the Liberal Alliance, you should work on free trade agreements. Efforts should be made to break down trade barriers which, unfortunately, we also have in Europe in relation to the Third World. It may
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120925	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120926	Does the rapporteur think that all of us who pay for the ATP should have any influence whatsoever on what ATP's funds should be invested in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120934	No, of course I have explained that I believe our starting point is that we should not be forced to invest in a certain form of pension, but that we should have available our own pension funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523120947	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. We shall now postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 1 p.m. where the next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left. At 1:00 a.m. 13.00 we meet again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523130001	The meeting is reopened. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523130032	Thank you. Basically, in the Radical Left, we believe that it is the members of the individual pension funds who decide and determine the profile of their investments. That is why we in the Radical Left, in other discussions too, have opposed some of the alternative's proposals that the Folketing should be able to dictate the investment profile of people's own pension funds. We think this is more centralistic. We do not believe that the Danish Parliament is best placed to invest the Danish pension savings. I understand it's a slightly different construction here. I'll get back to that. On the other hand, we would very much like to help remove any barriers that might exist for members of pension companies to impose a more green investment profile on their managers, as several have done. That's really good. We in the Radical Left pay tribute to that. It is also moving out there, as fortunately there will be more and more green investments to make. For one of the biggest challenges here, as far as I am informed, and I am not the climate or energy or environmental rapporteur or business rapporteur for that matter, and as I have examined the cases, the supply of green investment is actually lagging behind the very high demand. Fortunately, there is a great demand for green investment. Hopefully this will come, and this is also due to the fact that the government will then have to stop creating uncertainty about the energy conciliation and about the investments agreed in this. I understand that this is not part of the debate here and now. After all, ATP is a slightly different structure, because ATP is legally based on the state and therefore under a form of state control, as I think has been well explained in the comments on the resolution. That is why I understand very well the ambitions of the alternative. I also share the ambition that ATP should look even more for good, green, socially sustainable investments. However, as I think the debate has shown quite well, and as the authors themselves point out in the comments, there are already today a number of demands for social and environmental responsibility in the work of ATP. ATP's investment analyses and decisions include and must include a broad spectrum of socially relevant considerations on environment and climate, social conditions and on good corporate governance, the so-called ESG considerations, environmental, social and governance issues. It must be included, and the demands have been made. The reason we are against is because we are concerned that this proposal could therefore put the pension savings of citizens at risk. They apply particularly to the most vulnerable citizens who have not necessarily earned a pension elsewhere. We are therefore concerned that ATP is as well placed in terms of investment as other pension companies. Generally speaking, we believe that it is best for the state to keep investments for citizens' pension money in a very stretched arm, and we welcome the independence of ATP. On the other hand, the Radical Left is deeply concerned that, as a nation, we can say, as a parliament and with the state's regulations as a tool, it makes it attractive to set up, develop green business in Denmark and, incidentally, with other tools in Europe and the world, so that there will be many and more good green investments to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523130438	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523130442	[Sound emission]... I noted that the rapporteur said in his rapporteur's speech that it is not we who should decide what to invest in. Of course, I entirely agree with that; that is not what the resolution is about either. The resolution is about setting a framework that says that when investing, we should not only take economic returns into account, we should also take social and environmental returns into account. Does the rapporteur not agree with that principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523130511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523130513	Yes, as a starting point, I fully agree with the general principles. I also think it is clear from ATP's guidelines that they should be concerned with these so-called ESG considerations, in other words, that environmental, social and, of course, corporate governance are taken into account. In concrete terms, there are requirements for the ATP, as stated in the motion for a resolution, not only to respect the law of the countries in which they operate, but also to respect rules, standards and standards resulting from conventions and other international agreements, whether or not the country in which the company operates has acceded to these conventions. That is one of the things that I fully agree with the rapporteur that the ATP should be concerned about, because it is in fact also in their guidelines that they should do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523130609	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523130611	Then we just have to say that the reason why the alternative has tabled this resolution is that it is not going well enough, at least in our optics. Does the rapporteur think it is good enough that the ATP is in 95th place and has a status C in Global Climate Index? And does the rapporteur think it is good enough that there is a significantly poor return on fossil investment in ATP? Is that not something that the rapporteur agrees with the alternative in should be different? And what is the rapporteur going to propose if the rapporteur does not agree with our resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523130647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523130648	Well, I'm deeply concerned that we're getting more green investments, because it's worth it. I am quite convinced that it can do so in many cases. On the other hand, I am also informed that there is in fact a lack of an adequate supply of green investment. I think that the debate from up here earlier reflected, for example. ATP's investments in DONG. DONG is a company that invests very much in green, but also something in fossil. I find this difficult to distinguish between, and I think this proposal is quite far too far-reaching in relation to who dictates investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523130729	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523130745	It is an excellent proposal which the alternative has screwed up. The fine objectives of green conversion must be followed by concrete action everywhere and not just where the State can take decisions directly and in concrete terms. The green switch must have winds on all bike paths. Climate change is affecting us all, and everywhere we must help to give development a boost in the right direction. The green transition is only possible when the whole of society, including the pension funds, contributes. What is the point of a slightly higher pension return if, if I may say so, we are in water for life? After all, pension funds must be able to see prospects that go beyond the next pension payment to the first. It's not just what counts right now. Of course we have to make demands on ATP. ATP is social money, which must be invested to secure society in the longer term. The focus on short-term profit risks undermining the very foundations of life as we know it. We think it is a very relevant debate that the alternative has raised, and the SF supports the proposal that can bring ATP to the level of climate challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523130917	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523130932	Thank you. The alternative resolution that the ATP should phase out its investments in fossil fuels, while taking into account social and environmental sustainability in its investments, is acting beyond accountability and due diligence, in particular, to create coherence in our policies. I would like to highlight three points in this rapporteur's speech. The first is that we need to have consistency in our climate policy and the rest of our policy areas if we are ever to achieve the climate targets that we have set ourselves and avoid a climate disaster. The second is that ATP members are all Danish employees. The way they can influence ATP's investments is through the state and through us as legislators. The third is that we must abandon the dogma that Members' interests are solely about the economy. Taking care of members' interests is about generating returns on the basis of real value creation. Almost a month ago, I stood here in the Chair to present the Alternative's motion for a resolution that pension companies should generally take social and environmental sustainability into account in their investments. On that day, it was a matter of general social responsibility, which we in the Alternative believe should be borne in mind by those who have the greatest impact on the development of society. This also applies to private companies. Today it's about the state itself. It is in the state that I believe we must start and make the highest demands. Here we must go one step further and show the political leadership that is expected of us. Here we must ensure that there is a connection between what we want, what we say we want and what we do. If we are serious when, as a country, we sign a climate agreement in Paris, which obliges us to work for a maximum temperature increase. One-and-a-half degrees, and if we are serious about the sustainable transformation of society, which we talk about over and over again, we must also dare to touch those areas which are not just under environmental and climate policy. We need to be sure that, for example, business, education and employment policy does not stand the ground for environmental and climate policy, but that policies mutually support each other. We'll make it much faster. For the climate disaster is not prevented by public subsidies to wind turbines, heat pumps and water plans alone, but by an assessment of the environmental bottom line in far more policy areas. That is the case, for example. today, when we assess the environmental and social bottom line of the ATP Act. It is a law that can potentially have a massive positive impact on our climate action and our social efforts, given that ATP is clearly the pension manager, which is the capital strongest with a total investment wealth of approx. 700 billion. kr. ATP is immensely influential. At the same time, ATP is far from being a responsible pension company today. In recent years, the World Wildlife Fund has, among other things, analysed the climate action of the pension industry three times a year. All times, ATP has been at the bottom, and in the latest, ATP is placed as the penultimate in the list of 16 companies investigated. At the same time, ATP in the latest Global Climate 500 index from 2016 achieves one of the lowest rankings across the Nordic region in a 95th place. That's seven more seats on the list than last year. ATP acquires C status, while a pension company such as ATP acquires C status. The PKA achieves AAA status after putting forward an ambitious social responsibility policy. ATP is at the bottom because ATP has no targets for investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency. They have no objective of disposing of investments in fossil fuels, and they have no climate considerations in their investment policy. In just a few years, ATP has gone from the front in the area of social responsibility with ambitious objectives for investment in renewable energy to now having absolutely no climate considerations in investment policy. In 2009, Lars Rohde, then Director, presented great ambitions for ATP's investment in climate and environment, as he among others. said, and I quote: "It is simply going to permeate our investments... Climate becomes for us one of the main drivers of achieving the best investment return,...·. ATP would, among other things: allocate 10%. of the portfolio for environmental and climate investments. But it didn't happen. It has to be said that the ATP no longer marks itself on the front of responsible pension companies. Basically, it is difficult for me to understand that, through our statutory framework for ATP, we are promoting investments in, among others. oil extraction and other climate-laden activities with one hand, while at the same time committing ourselves, with the other hand, to a legally binding climate agreement which, if it is to be implemented, requires, among other things, that: two thirds of all known fossil energy reserves in the underground shall remain underground. In other words, our pension assets are put into investments which we know have negative value for society. There is simply a direct contradiction between legislation and political vision in this area, and that is what we want to change with this proposal. That was my first point. My second point is about membership. ATP members are all Danish employees. Employees are obliged to pay to the ATP and they cannot choose to place their savings with other companies or life and pension companies. Therefore, ATP members only have the opportunity to influence the investments for their pension savings through us. They cannot move their savings away from ATP, nor can they have direct influence through the election of the board of directors at general meetings. Personally, I find it very difficult to be a member of a pension company that is acting so fundamentally against my own interests. However, I have no opportunity not to support this investment strategy, even if it goes against me deeply. When ATP's members alone can influence the investment for their pension savings through the State, it must be assumed that they do so when choosing us in here as legislators. When you sign legally binding international agreements as a country, it must be assumed that the people expect us to abide by these agreements, that we implement that policy and that we do so through the special means that we have as legislators and that, by their very nature, the citizens do not have. This means constantly ensuring the best possible consistency between political visions and legislation. And if Denmark, as a nation, says that it wants to work for a two-degree objective, and if, at the same time, you have a law that means that that objective does not concern pension companies, then that is a problem. We must be able to resolve this issue in a different way, such as the one we are discussing here. MP Pension has demonstrated by incorporating the Paris Agreement into its investment strategy. This can easily be done and can be done in a healthy and responsible way. In my view, it is in the utmost agreement with the ATP's statement of intent, namely to safeguard the interests of the Danes. This brings me to my third and final point, which is that the ATP must first and foremost take care of the interests of pension savers. We assume that these are only economic interests. But it is not time for us to spread out those interests a little; that we include interest in a planet where you can have your old age; an interest in ensuring your children and grandchildren a secure future; an interest in a free and wild nature to live in; and, not least, an interest in the link between the return we get and the real value that the investment creates for society, rather than making money and getting returns on investments that have a direct negative value for society. Overall, the alternative's proposal is based on the idea that political leadership should pave the way for green conversion, and that is also what the ATP board itself has asked for, namely that we take political leadership on board. When we, as legislators here, decided that all employees should pay to an institution called the ATP, it must be we who are responsible for regulating that institution. Once we have adopted rules that actually restrict what is beneficial to society, it is timely care to change the rules. That is why I very much hope that you will all act on behalf of the climate today. Better today than tomorrow. So I would like to thank the SF and Enhedslisten for supporting the proposal and I hope that others will also back up despite the more negative words from up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523131824	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523131826	Thank you to the rapporteur and congratulations on the proposal. That's really good. I would just like to clarify the sentence in the comments on the proposal, which refers to the need to change the structure of the ATP. It has been perceived by some as changing the entire decision-making structure of the ATP. I just want to ask the rapporteur whether that is the way it should be understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523131855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523131857	Thank you for the question and for the opportunity for me to clarify that. We do not think that the entire structure of the company should be changed. The reason why we have written it in this way is that today it is legally stated that there must be the maximum possible economic return. What we would like to see written in is that there must be the greatest possible economic, social and sustainable return. So we do not intend to change the structure itself, i.e. the board, etc., which is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523131923	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523131925	Thank you for that clarification. Then we have also made it clear that what we are discussing is that there are already some guidelines on how such companies should invest, and what is at stake is to make it clear that this must also be done on the basis of environmentally and socially sustainable considerations. Thanks for the clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523131948	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Josephine Fock, can I just answer?). Yeah, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523131950	I just want to confirm what Enhedslisten says, because it's really important. In fact, I think it is a very important point that today there is a legal framework that has been laid down over the ATP. Today it says precisely that there must be the maximum possible economic return. What we are proposing in this proposal is to extend the framework legislation, if you say so, so that it states that there must be the greatest possible economic, social and environmental sustainability in the return, because it will provide an incentive for the ATP to ensure that their investment strategy is corrected. That is why I very much hope that some parties in here will say in the committee's work that they can agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523132039	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523132042	Thank you. I just need to clarify the answer that Mrs Josephine Fock gave here. It must provide the maximum possible social and sustainable return, she says. And then it comes in financial terms. Does this mean that the alternative looks very much at whether there is any economic return? Just the social and sustainable is in order and meets the wishes of the alternative, so bad if there is no economic return? Or is it conditional on all three things being there before ATP has to invest?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523132121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523132123	What is important is that they take account of all three parameters, and they do not do so today. Today, they only take economic returns into account. We would like to say that, in addition to the economic return, ATP, when investing, must also look at the social return and environmental return.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523132139	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523132140	In other words, does the alternative really look at whether the ATP brings any financial return to its members? If only what the alternative calls social and sustainable returns is in order, then they live up to the sense of responsibility that the alternative has, and so do not care if there is no economic return. But it is the economic return that workers must benefit from when they have to have ATP paid out, because they, as pensioners, cannot really make a living from the fact that it has been social and sustainable if there is no economic return.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523132215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523132216	I hardly know how to say it more clearly than I do. Today it says that they only We say: Forward-looking they must take into account an economic return and a social return and an environmental return. It is important that they take account of all three parameters when investing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523132237	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523132252	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523132312	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has tabled six motions for resolutions, B 179 to B 184, which we shall be discussing in this Chamber today. The first proposal is for an improvement in the early retirement scheme, and I would therefore like to start by clarifying the purpose of the early retirement pension and therefore also what is not the purpose. The scheme was introduced in the context of the withdrawal agreement in 2011 with the aim of ensuring that people who are worn out or have significant health problems after a long working life gain faster and simpler access to early retirement. Senior early retirement pension is merely a more flexible procedure for granting early retirement. The senior early retirement pension is not intended to extend the entitlement to early retirement, it is therefore not a new early retirement scheme either. Senior pre-retirement pensions are targeted at people who are worn out or have significant health problems after a long working life and who have up to 5 years of age until the age of the population. Because this is an early retirement scheme, the ability to work must be reduced to such an extent that you are unable to support yourself in a normal job or in a flexible job, just as is also the case under the general rules on early retirement. In contrast to the general rules, however, the municipality must decide only on the extent to which the ability to work is substantially and permanently reduced in relation to jobs which the citizen would be able to perform immediately without any action being taken to develop his or her ability to work. Thus, the municipality is not required to initiate business practice, rehabilitation or resource development in order to assess whether the citizen will be able to develop his or her ability to work or be able to use his or her residual working capacity. It is a requirement in ordinary cases of early retirement. At the same time, the citizen is entitled to a decision by the municipality within 6 months. I think this is a sensible and proper system in which we are not just sending people on early retirement because they have reached a certain age but, on the other hand, ensure a more flexible procedure for those people who do not have so much time left before they reach retirement age. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that it must always be an individual assessment which is the basis of whether the citizen should have a senior early retirement pension, not centrally dictated rules that only fit the average citizen. First of all, I would like to remind you that one year after the early retirement scheme was set up, the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs was introduced by a broad majority in the Folketing. Therefore, the development of senior early retirement does not give the full picture of reality. We need to look at the two things in context. The aim of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs is precisely that as many as possible should be able to contribute to the labour market with the resources that individuals now have. Therefore, the flex job scheme was more targeted at people with a very limited ability to work. This means that people with a significantly reduced ability to work can now get a flexible job, even in a few hours a week, and there are currently approx. 16,000 people employed in these mini-flex jobs. We can see that more and more people over the age of 60 are being searched and started in flex jobs. In 2011 it was 577 people, in 2015 it was almost twice as many: 1,149 people. I think that is really good news, because we should not give up anyone just because they can only work a few hours a week if there is a prospect that they can gain a more firm foothold in the labour market, and this shows that we are now, to a greater extent than in the past, actually able to keep people in employment. Therefore, it is not surprising that the approach to early retirement has been less than what was technically assumed in 2011 before the adoption of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. Following on from that, I would like to point out that approx. 9 out of 10 citizens who have applied for a senior early retirement pension have actually been awarded it. In addition, during the whole of 2015, only 19 complaints concerning the refusal of a senior early retirement pension have been dealt with by the Danish Agency of Appeals. There is therefore no indication that the low number of old-age pensions awarded should be due to restrictive or problematic administrative practices in the municipalities or that the rules do not work. With that said, I have asked the Danish Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment to discuss the scheme with the municipalities and to prepare some guidance material for both municipalities and citizens, so that we ensure that there is a good and broad knowledge of the scheme. These were my opening remarks, and now I come to the motion for a resolution itself, where the Enhedslisten specifically wants citizens as young as 55 years to be judged out of the labour market if their ability to work is reduced by a fixed percentage. I recognise that the work of some industries can be physically hard and can lead to the risk of wearing down at an early age, but I do not believe that the solution is centrally dictated rules as to when one is unable to work rules that we politicians should establish without knowing whether the individual citizen can have several good years back in the labour market with the right support. At the same time, it is important that we do not forget the very reason for the wear and tear, because part of the solution is that there is effective prevention in the workplace and that employers live up to their responsibility to ensure a healthy and safe working environment. In addition, Enhedslisten wants to move away from the fact that the citizen's case when applying for a senior early retirement pension must be thoroughly investigated from all sides in favour of what they call a rapid work test of 3 months. I do not believe that snatching solutions are for the benefit of the individual citizen. Instead, we must continue to ensure that the individual citizen's situation is adequately clarified and that the necessary evidence of his or her ability to work is provided. The municipalities need insight into the individual's situation in order to be able to offer the effort or arrangement appropriate to the individual's conditions and needs. The government cannot therefore support motion for a resolution No. B 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133132	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133137	Will the Minister admit that this was an extremely tendentious presentation of the purpose of the Enhedslisten's proposal when the Minister talks about the fact that the purpose was apparently to judge people out of the labour market and that we should move away from a thorough analysis of the citizen's situation? How does the Minister get these things out of the proposal? After all, there is no compulsion to get a senior early retirement. It is an offer to people whose ability to work has been reduced by at least half because of wear and tear and, at the same time, has to meet the criteria already set for how many years you must have been in the labour market. So I would like the Minister to admit that this was a very tendentious way of describing the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133223	After all, the Enhedslisten's proposal is a proposal which, as a consequence of the current arrangements, could have people slipping out of the labour market faster and more directly. What lies in my presentation here is, in fact, a deep respect for the solutions found under a previous government backed by the Enhedslisten in such a way as to pay close attention to the fact that, to the extent that there is even a working capacity of a person, we are obliged to do what can be done to find the ability to work and to support man in the best way to remain on the labour market as part of the working community in the type of job that fits the capacity available to the individual. That is what the effect of, for example. The mini-flex jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133320	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133322	Thank you. Again, it was an extremely tendentious presentation. After all, this proposal targets people who have gone out of the labour market. Wouldn't the Minister like to deal with that? It is people who are so worn out that they cannot maintain an ordinary job of 37 hours, so that they cannot support themselves. They are the ones to whom it is directed, i.e. those who are worn out after many, many years of hard physical work, and also some who have been psychologically burdened by the work. That is the group of people we are talking about, and that is an offer. After all, it is not a coercion, so that people can no longer remain in the labour market. So would the Minister not like to eat his very tendentious presentation of the purpose of our proposal in itself again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133405	No, I will not, because I think it is essential that our active labour market policy pay close attention and respectfully pay attention to the opportunities that are still available to the individual. This, being worn down in relation to some functions, does not necessarily mean that one is also worn down in relation to another type of work. In fact, I believe that, as we have developed our labour market here in recent years with early retirement reform, with senior early retirement pensions and with mini-flex jobs, we have been given a very nuanced basis for working on these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133447	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133451	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen says about this proposal that it is for those who have gone out of the labour market. However, the senior early retirement scheme, which is part of the retirement agreement, was introduced to those who were worn out 5 years before retirement age. The minister himself said so here and that is whether you are in an unemployment fund or not. And then the Minister moves forward with a new agreement on early and flexible job reform, in which it is part of, but the senior early retirement pension, as it was made, was not included in the early and flex jobs agreements, it was included in the agreement on later retirement. Thus, the Minister of the then government or the one who came after, for it was introduced after an election, has actually taken the senior early retirement pension and lifted it into the agreement on the early and flexible job reform outside the agreement made with the Danish People's Party. Does the Minister not find it a little strange if the Minister is still clinging to the fact that the agreement on later withdrawal still applies?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133606	After all, I have not been a part of the creation of any of the two agreements. What I can see is that we have a senior early retirement scheme which, according to the opinion of the citizens, is working satisfactorily, but where, as politicians, we can see that it is being used a little less than was expected when it was made. I am sure that a significant explanation for the fact that it is being used a little less when citizens are satisfied is the creation of mini-flex jobs, because the people who have the ability to work, who allow them to slip into these mini-flex jobs, then agree with the municipality that this is the way they should go instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133646	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133648	Then I have one more question. Will the Minister live up to the agreement on later retirement, of which Dansk Folkeparti is a part, and which the senior early retirement scheme forms part, and that we make the senior early retirement pension work separately outside the early and flexible job reform, which the Danish People's Party is not part of? Or does the Minister recognise that the agreement on later withdrawal has been broken by the government that introduced the early and flex-job system and by the Left, which is now in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133723	I do not dare to take a position on what the previous government might have broken out of agreements, but what I can say is that I intend to meet the obligations of this government in terms of managing the early retirement scheme according to its intention. That is why, in the second context, I have also indicated that I will contact all the municipalities of the country and ensure that all municipalities are fully aware of the possibility of granting senior early retirement pensions and the criteria to be applied, and ensure that all citizens for whom this is relevant are informed of the opportunities they have through them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133803	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first one is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523133812	Thank you. I would like to say that this motion for a resolution reminds us of the motion for a resolution which the SF had in the Chamber last spring. It is not, of course, exactly the same as the one which was concerned with a retirement pension scheme, and that is why my speech will be very similar to my speech at the time. This is an important debate and I think we should take it back. It will probably not be the last time, and it is also very good. Because yes, we are getting older, we are getting healthier and we are becoming more and more educated, and that is why, of course, we can also stay longer in the labour market. But as Enhedslisten rightly points out in this proposal, and as we also hear from a number of trade unions, there will be professional groups who will not be able to work as long as everyone else. I think we all know that. What are we going to do with them and how can we ensure that they may be longer in the labour market, for the sake of society, but not least for their own sake? For there will still be scaffolding workers, factory workers, craftsmen, SOSU helpers and many other professional groups who will have hard physical work in the future. Well, we do not do that by cutting back on the Factory Inspectorate and the working environment, as this government does, but actually ensure that you have a proper working environment throughout your working life. We are not doing this either by cutting down on training opportunities for unskilled and skilled workers, but by constantly focusing on training for everyone, including for those who do not have higher education, for those who are in the labour market and for those who have been in the labour market for many years, through switching schemes and other things. We are doing this by creating a spacious labour market so that there is even more room for people with special needs, for flex jobs and for the elderly. With these words, I would like to say that this is a very, very important debate which, of course, we have to take politically over the coming years. The Social Democrats tried to create this debate and find solutions to this when we were in government by setting up this think tank. We need a labour market where we benefit more from the seniors and where we see them as a resource. What efforts are being made to keep older people longer in the labour market? Are there companies that are doing a good job today and that we can all learn from? Is there any relevant inspiration from other countries? And how can we deal with the fact that the average age in the labour force is increasing when the elderly in the labour market have better health and education than the present seniors? These are important issues which, of course, we need to think highly together and where we should not necessarily, I think, come up with quick solutions, but come up with proper and correct solutions. Unfortunately, the current government then laid down this think tank, and I think that is actually deeply regrettable. At the same time, we must ensure that early retirement is still possible, that flexible jobs are available for those who cannot work all these years, and that is why it is also important for us Socialists to make reforms for early retirement and flexible jobs; it is important to follow up on them so that those who need early retirement will get it. I also heard that the Minister made some figures in relation to some of those reforms. I would say that it is fine to discuss what Enhedslisten wants us to discuss, but I would say that there is a need for future and broad solutions so that we can ensure that everyone has a long and safe working life, and we cannot just do this with a quick resolution, on which, by the way, there is little economy. That is why the Social Democrats are voting against, and that is why we want to be part of the good and broader solutions for the benefit of all these people. We think they deserve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523134150	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523134155	Thank you. It is a good idea, when there is a motion for a resolution, to try to deal with the content of it and to explain, if you do not want to vote for it, what is wrong with the proposal. Then we could all get a little smarter and perhaps, who knows, out of a debate about it, come to the conclusion that there was something we agreed on that could improve the conditions of the group of people we are talking about. But so far I have only heard that it is obviously not a good and broad solution and that is why the Socialists will not vote in favour of it. Well, can't we elaborate on that? What is it in this resolution that the Socialists think is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523134233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523134235	Firstly, it goes in and points to some of the things that are about how to grant early retirement and such things. And that is where I think we have made an early retirement reform which, for some, works and which must be allowed to work, as we will also discuss later. But it is also the economy of it. Well, one of the things I have to challenge Enhedslisten on is what's of economics behind it. I don't see it. Now there is a big difference between Enhedslisten and Social Democracy. Each time we have made a proposal, we have therefore clarified what it costs. I know that Enhedslisten doesn't do that often, and that's reason enough not to be able to vote in favour of this, so when we don't even know what it costs while we really just want the reforms we are making to work and, of course, follow up on them. But it's also a talk we're going to have later.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523134322	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523134324	It is impossible to predict how many people will take advantage of it, and that is why I have not guessed about it in the motion for a resolution. However, funding has been taken into account. If the rapporteur would like to read the comments, the rapporteur will see that, to the extent that it costs something, it is financed by the introduction of a millionaire tax. This is something that the Socialists themselves have been in favour of in the past, so it can surely not be a problem. But would the rapporteur not like to explain what is wrong with this resolution? Because there are two ways of doing this. One is that you say that you cannot support it for these and those reasons. The other way is to say: there are some good intentions and some good elements in it; we would like to continue working on that. But what I see is a completely blank rejection of a proposal that takes account of a group in the labour market, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen would otherwise like to be a warm advocate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523134415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523134416	One of Mr. Finn Sørensen's favorite expression is: I have not received an answer to what I asked. Mr. Finn Sørensen's got a lot of work to do here, but then sir... Finn Sørensen listens too. It is, of course, about the economy, and it is about the fact that these reforms are working very well here. And then I think we should take note of what the Minister said, namely that nine out of ten of those who have applied for early retirement receive it and that there have been only 19 complaints in this area. Many people have also said that the municipalities may not be aware that it exists. So somewhere I think the reforms should work. Let's follow up the numbers on this and see if it doesn't work. By the way, I think I've answered all the way to Finn's question. Sir. Finn Sørensen). Sir. Finn Sørensen asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523134504	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523134512	Thank you, President. It says that this resolution is about improving the early retirement scheme, but I have heard it now, Mr President. Finn Sørensen has said, and if I understood it correctly, it is for people who have gone out of the labour market. And the senior early retirement pension we have today is for people who are in the labour market but are worn out. This means that there is a difference, and that is why it is perhaps a little wrong to call it a senior early retirement scheme. Perhaps it should be said that this is an improvement in the possibilities for people over 55 years of age to be granted early retirement. Maybe it should be more like that. Far along the way, we can agree with Enhedslisten that the rules for granting early retirement when you have worn out and you have reached age have become too tight with the early and flexible job reform that has been carried out. The question is also whether it should be at a 50% reduction limit that an early retirement pension should be granted. I understand perfectly well the purpose of this, and we also share the intentions well along the way, but I also know many people who are worn out, but who want to keep their links with the labour market. Of course, they should also have the opportunity to be retrained or to get a flex job. That is not the problem at all. I think we can agree on that. Then there is the funding for the introduction of a millionaire tax. We think this is very fictitious. We would like some more clear figures. In the Danish People's Party, we cannot table a resolution ourselves without explaining how much it will cost, and I think we should do so here too. However, I also think there might be some work to be done to find out how many of these will actually be about how many have gone out of the labour market and what benefits they are on today. Are they in the system being treated for early retirement or where are they today? We do not really have an overview of that either. I think there are many positive elements in it. I just think that if we are to look at whether there could be an opportunity for this, we might have to take care to separate it so that it is not confused with the senior early retirement scheme which is in the retirement reform and which is independent of the early and flex-job reform if otherwise the current government and the previous government would admit it. Because it was under the S-R-SF government that it was adopted. What was stated in the agreement was that it should be implemented after an election. But you looked at it really big. It was said that it should be included in the early and flex-job reform, even though it was not part of the agreement in that area at all, but was part of the withdrawal agreement. So I think I would recommend Enhedslisten to look at it a little and make a more clear separation so that it does not get misinterpreted and mixed together with the senior early retirement pension that the Minister has promised to send out a new guide on. As I understand it, it does not help the group that Mr. Finn Sørensen is talking about 'cause they're the ones who got out. So there's a little work to be done. At the moment, we cannot support the proposal, but I think we need to continue to look at how we can relax the rules so that we can have a faster procedure for early retirement or possibly a flexible job. Because that is actually what is in it for the group that has gone out. I don't have a clear overview of how big that group is. I don't know if sir. Finn Sørensen has an overview of how many these are all about, but that is something we might be able to ask about at the Minister's office. We cannot, however, support the proposal as it stands at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523134936	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523134938	Thank you. After all, it is a proposal to improve the senior early retirement scheme introduced in the context of the retirement reform, therefore the title. And I am a little surprised that the Danish People's Party is so uncertain about this, because it is almost identical to the amendment we tabled to the draft law on raising the retirement age at the end of last year, L 40, which once again raised the retirement age, and where we said that this was the reason for us to make that proposal. It's aimed at the group that can't bite itself. That is the correct wording. It is, of course, aimed at people who are on the labour market and who have been there for many years. So it was a little wrong wording that was used there. It is aimed at people who cannot bite themselves, and it is an offer to those who cannot bite themselves to a pre-retirement wage they never reach, and to an increasingly deferred retirement age. That is the purpose of it. At the time, the Danish People's Party supported it, so I don't really understand the doubts all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135045	I really think I spoke positively about the proposal as such, but it is just getting mixed up with the senior early retirement scheme, which is not part of the early and flexible job reform. It must then be expanded. I fully understand that, but I think you just have to take it apart. For as Mr. Finn Sørensen said this is for those who have gone out of the labour market, if I understood it correctly, where the senior early retirement pension is intended for those who are in the labour market but can no longer cope with it and therefore must have access to a senior early retirement pension. That is the conflict between the two things that I see it. For those who have gone out of the labour market, they are not entitled to the senior early retirement pension that we have today. We agree on that. I think there is something to work on, but we are not happy with the funding, that is, the formula with a millionaire tax. We cannot agree to that. But I think there is a long way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135150	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135151	Thank you. But now I have made it clear that it is based on the principles of the existing senior early retirement pension, on how long you must have been in the labour market. We're not gonna change that. If we wanted to change that, it would have been in the motion for a resolution. In principle, we change only one thing, and that is how much the ability to work must be reduced, so that you can obtain such a pension in order for you to apply for it and for it to be awarded to you. So that is the proposal in its simplicity. And then we tighten up the processing times. So I think the rapporteur should try to familiarize himself with the motion for a resolution. There is also one thing that I think the rapporteur would agree with, and that is that the reason why it is necessary to work on something like this is that the early and flexible job reform that was made has seriously deteriorated the senior early retirement pension that was created in the context of the withdrawal reform. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135246	We fully agree with the latter, no doubt about it. I also say that there is something to work on and we are ready to look at it. However, financing with a millionaire tax without any explanation of how much it costs cannot be a part of it. There we need to have more clear lines. And then I still think you might want to look at the possibility of getting flex jobs, because I'm sure some of these people would like that, and it's not in the senior pre-retirement pension that exists today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135316	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135327	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten has tabled proposals to improve the early retirement scheme. We know that working in some industries can be physically hard and that there is thus a risk of wear and tear, even at an early age. After all, the senior early retirement scheme is aimed at people who are worn out or have serious health problems after a long working life. This means that the ability to work must be reduced to such an extent that one is not able to try oneself at a regular job or a flexible job, and therefore the municipality should not set in motion, for example. In order to assess whether the citizen will be able to develop his or her ability to work, business practice, rehabilitation or resource development. The municipality must only decide whether the citizen's ability to work is substantially and permanently reduced in relation to jobs which the citizen could immediately perform, that is to say, without developing the citizen's ability to work, which is otherwise a requirement when applying for an early retirement pension. The citizen is entitled to a decision by the municipality within 6 months. These are the current rules on senior early retirement. We have discussed the senior early retirement scheme several times, and the status is that when applying, nine out of ten applicants are actually awarded a senior early retirement pension. I think we have an excellent system here that actually works, and the Left does not think there is any reason to change it. The senior early retirement scheme has a more flexible and easier procedure than the early retirement scheme, and that was also the intention and purpose of it, so we do not think that there is any reason to change the system of the proposals that Enhedslisten has made here today. Against this background, the Left cannot support the resolution, and I welcome the Conservative People's Party, which unfortunately could not be present today, and say that they cannot support the resolution either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135556	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135600	Thank you. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that the nine out of ten who have been granted this early retirement pension belong to a group which would, in any case, have received early retirement only a little slower, and that this early retirement scheme, as it stands today, is not, as a result, a real offer to the large and growing group of unskilled and skilled workers who are worn out from their mid-50s and are unable to bite on the labour market until they can get early retirement and have to look a long way in the road map for a national pension if they live so long. If the rapporteur can confirm that this is the case, then I would be happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135645	I can confirm that the senior early retirement scheme is a scheme which does not have to be carried out through work tests etc., which are otherwise to be carried out in the context of an application for early retirement. The whole point is that if you have 5 years or less at the age of your retirement, you can take advantage of this option. It is, I believe, flexible and good, and I can also see that a number of citizens have taken advantage of it. Afterwards, we have agreed on the early and flexible job reform here in the Folketing, and it has enabled people to maintain their links with the labour market, including with very few hours. Those options were not available when we made the agreement on the senior early retirement scheme. And that's why I think it's playing well together. I understand that Enhedslisten wants us to have the opportunity, by the 55 years, to join a senior early retirement scheme, but in the Left we do not agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135746	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135749	No, and of course I'm perfectly clear about that. So the rapporteur confirms what the content of the existing early retirement pension is, and thank you for that, and also thank you for just referring to the main points of our proposal. It is very good that it is included in the debate. So I just ask: what is the rapporteur's offer to the group of people we are talking about here? Because what is happening to them today is that they are not sick enough to get early retirement. If they have a working capacity that is just over half, they do not get flex jobs, and then they may lose their daily allowance after 2 years. Then there's cash benefits, but not, if they're married, because then there's no support, and all the other pre-retirement stuff they can look in the directory for. What is the Left's solution to the large group of people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135837	It is true that people in the labour market are already facing challenges in maintaining their jobs. In fact, I believe that the vast majority of employers are doing what they can to keep people on the labour market. If you go out, for example. If one company closes, then it is important that we try to bring those people into another industry where you might have to work in another way. Because it may well be that the wear and tear has increased in the way you have been working for 20-30 years now, and then it is a common task to look at whether there could be no other jobs where you could not be worn out in the same way. So I think that is the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135919	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523135942	The previous rapporteurs have thus used most of the arguments that I have, and the authors of the motion can probably conclude that we in LA cannot support this proposal, which is that, from 55 years of age, senior early retirement can be granted. As has been mentioned, it is the case today that nine out of ten applying for a senior early retirement pension are awarded to it. When relatively few people are on this scheme, this is due to the fact that we have made other reforms, including flex job reform, which is quite lucrative not only in the economic sense but also in the sense that it helps to keep people on the labour market. As far as I remember, a 5-hour flex job per week gives 150 DKK. in the hour after grants a monthly salary of about 20,000 DKK, and there are probably quite many who find it attractive and want to be on such a scheme instead of being on senior early retirement. Furthermore, from our point of view, it is not in itself a social event to be 55 years old. Therefore, from our point of view, there should not, as a starting point, be special arrangements for retirement based on age in addition to the ordinary retirement pension. The proposal must be financed by the introduction of a millionaire tax. It is extremely dubious funding. The economic wise men have previously made it possible that higher marginal tax rates in Denmark will not give more money in the Treasury. This is because higher marginal tax will reduce labour supply, it will reduce productivity and thus reduce the tax base. From our point of view, this motion for a resolution is totally in the wrong direction, as what is needed in Denmark is reforms that reduce the number of citizens who are on transfer income. We have a record in Denmark in the number of citizens of working age who are on transfer and we urgently need to reduce that number. This proposal, in this sense, is in the wrong direction and therefore we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523140241	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. No, it's true first, sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523140304	The chairman is forgiven. There is no doubt that this proposal is an improvement in the early retirement scheme, and it addresses a very relevant and topical issue. Already before the adoption of the scheme, it was subject to great criticism, among other things. the chairman of the FOA, Dennis Kristensen, said that it was one of the biggest bluffs in the recent political history of Denmark. Those are hard words, I think. Maybe there's a little bit about it. I think it can be said that very few worn-out Danes have come through the needle's eye to this scheme. As from 1 January 2014, when the scheme came into force, only 366 people have been granted a senior early retirement pension and that is far from expectations. This motion for a resolution tries to make the system work by making the eye of the needle much bigger. It is proposed that people should be able to obtain a senior early retirement pension from the age of 55 and that it should be granted when, due to health conditions, their ability to work is reduced to at least half. Overall, in the alternative, we would rather have shorter working hours, in the long term, down to 30 hours, which will ensure that people do not become so worn out on the Danish labour market. But before we get that far, we are ready to look at steps that can ensure worn-out workers better conditions. We would like to take part in the responsibility for ensuring that the solidarity solution promised to worn-out citizens as part of the retirement reform under the title of senior early retirement is also a reality. In this context, we think that the intention of the proposal is good, but we hope that in committee we can look a little more closely at the key figures, including discussing whether the pension should be granted from the 55th year by the loss of half of the working capacity. We can be nervous that it is a little early to open up the possibility of people with half their working capacity getting out of the labour market intact. We would very much like to ensure that the quality of efforts to ensure the retraining and exploitation of citizens' ability to work is made better and more accessible, as is also sought in several of the other proposals put forward. And we would like to look at whether the requirement that you have had a certain number of years on the labour market before applying for a senior early retirement pension should really be dropped. After all, it is not about how long you have been in the labour market, but what condition you are in if you are to have a senior early retirement pension. So if we can agree with Enhedslisten on those points and with the other parties to support this proposal, we will look forward to seeing what it costs. And then we must also look at how we can find another funding, because in the alternative we have not decided to support a millionaire tax. On the whole, however, we are very positive about the proposal and we hope that together with the Enhedslisten we can make the ends reach together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523140554	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523140556	Thank you, and thank you to the alternative for at least catching the intentions. So, what I am saying now, I am not saying because I am going to refuse to discuss the content of the proposal and the principles that have been put in place, but I am rather surprised that they are coming, because when we dealt with L 40 on raising the retirement age, we tabled an amendment to the legislation which was identical in substance to this one, and as far as I remember, the alternative then supported that amendment. These were the same principles that have been introduced here, so I am a little surprised if the alternative now finds them problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523140637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523140639	What we want is to improve retraining and other measures. We would like to phase it out for a certain number of years. We would like to advertise the scheme, which is apparently a little secret around here. It's not like people can't think of it. It's easy enough to get on it, so the reason why there aren't so many people on it must be that people don't really know it's there. Then we would really like to take a really serious round about it with the 55 years and that with half of the ability to work and ask experts and would like to have hearings about it and try to see if we can't get that screw fixed in a way so that both Enhedslisten and the Alternative can see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523140717	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523140720	Thank you. The microphone's asleep, no, now it's awake! Thank you for your answer. I did not really get an answer to my question, but I would then like to move on to one of the reasons why we are not just voting in favour of it. What is the problem with financing it by means of a millionaire tax? I guess that was very reasonable. It is, of course, that part of the population has had crowned days, so to speak. It is actually a very good picture: Crowned days, yes, over the last 15 years in the form of tax cuts to business and to themselves and everything. So what would the problem be by allowing it to finance over a millionaire tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523140757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523140759	We would rather finance it, for example. tax on financial transactions or the decommissioning of tax havens or passive fortunes that just stand. Millionaire taxes are taxes on wages to some extent, and what we see as the biggest problem is that we can now invest large fortunes without creating jobs at all, that is jobless growth, and that is really one thing we would rather tax than using a millionaire tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523140832	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to the next rapporteur, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523140842	Thanks for that. I'm glad it was now, so I was ready. In the Radical Left, we are deeply concerned that we have created and that we continue to create a labour market where there is room for many more. It is also deeply relevant, I think, to discuss how we organise the labour market in a way that much more seniors both want to stay longer in the labour market and can maintain a link with the labour market, even if it is not full-time, but perhaps just a few hours. That is why we have contributed to a number of reforms, among others. the retirement reform, which this proposal is about because the senior early retirement pension was introduced in connection with the phasing-out of the early retirement pension. As I understand the proposal and have understood the debate, Enhedslisten has now put it, because the number of people who are awarded a senior early retirement pension is lower than originally expected. In fact, I think the Minister has explained very well what the background is. There have been several opportunities to maintain a link with the labour market, including: The early retirement pension reform and the flex-job reform have been mentioned by several people, and if nine out of ten people applying for a senior early retirement pension also receive it, we in the Radical Left see no reason to change the scheme, while at the same time the Minister has now assured that a new guide will also be sent out, so that it may become a scheme, at least everyone is aware of. I am really sorry, as other rapporteurs have also pointed out, that the government laid down the senior think tank that we set up in the previous government. I think we need to have a thorough discussion of how we can have a more open labour market for seniors in my understanding of all forms, so that we can also have a labour market and a culture in companies where there is room for seniors on different terms than you might have been in the past. However, I do not believe that this means that we will then have to extend a system of transfers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141109	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141112	Thank you. I just need to correct a misunderstanding with the rapporteur. We have not tabled this proposal because there have been some figures on now, when few senior early retirements are being awarded. The order of magnitude of this was also known six months ago when we dealt with this proposal for an increase in retirement age, in which we tabled an almost identical proposal. No, we have put forward the proposal because we have a huge unresolved and growing problem because of the deterioration in the early retirement scheme, because of the deterioration in the unemployment benefit rules with thousands of people... no one knows exactly how many people cannot bite their way into the labour market until they can go on a national pension. That is what the problem is, and that is what we are trying to do here. There are many other things that need to be done too, but that is part of the solution, and that is why we have put it forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141201	Thank you for that investigation. Of course, I should have been familiar with that. It was just part of the discussion, how many people actually get it awarded, and it is then nine out of ten who get it awarded when they seek. But of course I should have been aware that Enhedslisten just wants more arrangements. I am also deeply concerned that we will have a labour market, as I said at the outset, which is open to people, seniors, and also a labour market for people who cannot work full-time or perhaps half-time, but who may be linked to the labour market. It is precisely for this reason that we did both the early retirement reform and the flex-job reform, which is precisely what we will be discussing later.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141248	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141250	Yeah, and we'll discuss that later. But at least now it has been clarified for the rapporteur. Then I just note that the only answer the rapporteur has is to refer to some schemes that this group of people we are talking about • people who have reduced their working capacity to half their working capacity cannot really make use of. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141316	Well, I think we simply disagree fundamentally on how best to organise a labour market with which more people can have a connection. I think we share the value set that it is very good to have a link with the labour market.I hope we do that if you have an opportunity. We must also be able to set up a labour market for this. But this is a system which does not have to be associated with the labour market. We would much rather look at how to create a more labour market that contains more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141349	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141359	It is quite obvious that the current early retirement scheme is not working optimally. We think it is very good that the Minister is taking the initiative to contact the municipalities in order to draw attention to the scheme and perhaps also in order to be able to advise more people to be able to apply for a senior early retirement pension. I think it might be a good idea to decide now that not only municipalities should be in the target group, but that trade unions and cashiers and perhaps job centres and other places where people could potentially get in touch with the people who could apply for the scheme can increase information about it. Because as we see it now, we're going to say that far too few people are looking for this opportunity. It is, of course, very good that a number of people have been dragged into the jobs through a mini-flex job. But I think there is good reason to believe that it does not contain everyone at all and that therefore there will be a great potential, at least a greater potential, to also apply within the current senior early retirement age. With the proposal, we think there are a lot of good ideas from the Enhedslisten. We are somewhat sceptical about the limit of 55 years and half of our ability to work. We may find it a little sad that you may think first of all in pension direction if you are only 55 years old and yet have half of your ability to work. I think we should try to guide most of these people to options other than pensions. But it is only one element of the things that Enhedslisten proposes. Basically, the SF is positive about the proposal. We will await the discussion in committee and, in any case, the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution will provide a good basis for a number of questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141603	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141606	I'd like to thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge for the positive approach to it, and indeed we are prepared to discuss the individual elements of the proposal. It is clear that if there could be more support for something that was slightly different from what we have proposed, then we are not the ones who say no to it. What brings me to the question is that Mr. Karsten Hønge says it can be a little dangerous to make people that offer. But now I do not think anyone is using such an offer if it is not the case that they have made up their own minds that they are no longer able to cope with the labour market. So I guess that's what you gotta hold on to. But then Mr. Karsten Hønge: Well, maybe you should lead them in the direction of other things offer. What, then, are the offers that we have for people who are in the situation on which the proposal is based?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141656	No, but anyway, I'm not saying it shouldn't be, but I just think it might be a wrong perspective to give people first of all that direction. However, we believe that another type of response to flexible jobs will be an offer that is more perspective in when you are 55 years old and, after all, can work as the proposal suggests, with half of your working capacity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141719	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141722	Well, I guess there's a lot of people in that group who would much rather. Now the market for flexible jobs is not very good when you are in the situation where you have half of your working capacity left. That is not where flex jobs are going fast. It's down to the bottom with those of a very few minutes, a few hours duration. After all, the others still find it as difficult to enter the labour market as they had before. The unemployment rate among flex workers is still up around 15,000 or so, plus/minus do not hang me up on the margin. So that may not be a real offer either, and that is what this proposal is like trying to take into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141804	Yes, but that is also why I fully recognise the positive intentions behind the proposal, and fundamentally we are positive about it. I think it might be to give up in order to quickly say that it is a limited market and that is true for these flex jobs. It is far too limited and we would like those people to be able to get much faster out of the unemployment benefit they are on, but I still think that this can give a wrong perspective when the solution may in fact be somewhere else, even though there are some strong challenges associated with it, because jobs are not there. I think it might be a little bit to give up on the challenge of not trying to solve it and then, like, driving people into a track where they may not really belong as 55-year-olds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141847	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141851	Thank you. All I have to do is understand the signals that are now being sent from Parliament's platform, in that I have the impression that the Left has an agreement with the Socialist People's Party on early retirement and flexible job reform and the conditions for obtaining an early retirement pension. I just want to know whether the Socialist People's Party is now terminating the conciliation or how to understand the signals that are being sent, because that will be done if you vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141927	No, SF doesn't step out of a settlement. As has been explained before, it is, after all, a discussion in which context and in what way it can be said that the discussion on early retirement is linked to the conciliation on early retirement and flexible jobs. I know that Hans Andersen has received a letter earlier today stating explicitly that it is not connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141951	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523141953	What is connected is the conditions under which an early retirement pension can be obtained. We have agreed with each other in the reform we made on early retirement and flexible jobs, and these are the conditions that are in fact the same, regardless of whether we talk early retirement or early retirement to what extent you have a working capacity left. There it is just interesting to understand whether the SF is stepping out of the settlement today and announcing that they are terminating it, or whether they are standing by and saying that it is at the negotiating table that they want to have influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523142035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523142036	Of course, SF is part of the settlement for early retirement and flexible jobs. But that is why it is possible to take a position in relation to another part of the offers in the area of pensions, including senior early retirement. If this is seen as a regulation and adjustment of the senior early retirement scheme, then SF can easily take a position on it without it having anything to do with whether we are part of the flex-job early retirement circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523142103	Thank you to the rapporteur. There was a last minute flying in. It's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523142111	I heard you take a position on this, and I just have to ask: does the SF vote in favour or does the SF vote against this proposal? I'm not aware of that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523142123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523142125	No, and sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is completely forgiven because I have not said what we are doing. I have said that we are waiting with great interest for the committee procedure. We believe that the resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten can provide a good basis for asking further questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523142139	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523142141	This means that the SF also has a complete understanding of the cost of this proposal. Can the SF tell the rest of us, because it does not even know the rapporteur who has tabled the proposal himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523142155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523142157	I think that will be an obvious element in the discussion that the committee should have and in the questions that can be put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523142203	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523142217	Thank you. I would like to clarify once again why we are making this proposal. This is because the reforms on early retirement, cash benefits and cash benefits have left a huge problem for a large group of workers who have started early in the labour market and who are far from all those who have started early, fortunately then, but a large proportion of them are worn out already when they reach the mid-fifties. In the past, they bit their teeth together, possibly took some painkillers and fought their way to work anyway, in anticipation of being able to take early retirement from the age of 60. But there has been a steady erosion of the early retirement age. It's moved up. The early retirement period has been reduced to 3 years and there are other deteriorations. At the same time, we have suffered a serious deterioration in the rules on unemployment, which makes the group we are talking about here extremely vulnerable to losing their jobs. Then they lose unemployment benefit after 2 years and they cannot fight back in the benefit system because it requires 1,924 hours of work in the last 3 years. Their ability to work does not go that far. They cannot get early retirement because there the demands have been greatly tightened so that you have to prove that you cannot develop your ability to work, and moreover it must be infinitely small in order to qualify for early retirement. This was a problem that we were already aware of when this so-called post-retirement reform was carried out in connection with the withdrawal reform. And in order to respond to the criticism I am making here, you invented something called a senior early retirement pension, and I actually very much agree with Dennis Kristensen, the chairman of the FOA, who says it was a huge bluff. Because it was sold as if it were an offer to this group of people, and it wasn't at all. For the criteria for obtaining a senior early retirement pension are exactly the same as for receiving an early retirement pension, and this was difficult even at the time when the so-called retirement reform was being carried out. And it became even more difficult later with the change in the early retirement rules that was implemented under the previous government. So there was already a system which was not worth much and which is now completely undermined in terms of addressing the problem I am pointing out and which was well known to be there when that legislation was made. What we're doing with this is simply taking on the word of those who invented this senior early retirement pension and saying: Well, let's make a senior early retirement pension, which is a real offer to the group of people who are affected by the retirement reform and the unemployment benefits rules and now also affected by the other rules that are made. In addition, the rules on cash benefits are because if you cannot get an early retirement pension and you cannot get a flexible job, yes, you can get cash benefits • no, you cannot because you are married to someone who has an income and then you have no support. So I guess it's very reasonable to offer that group of people an offer. If you ask FOA and 3F, they say we have a real problem here. You cannot prove exactly how many people it will be possible to grant such an early retirement pension. You don't know that number, it's a dark number. That is also the reason why it is impossible to say anything quite scientifically precise about how many people you expect to take advantage of it. However, FOA and 3F both point out that about a quarter of their members have either left or expect to leave the labour market before they reach the age of 60. That's exactly because they can see how working conditions are for this group. And who else would know, if not these federations? You know this on the basis of the handling of Members' cases. So it's a fact. So I actually think it's a rather rather what should we say? The problem is, of course, that these are schemes that most of them will not be able to avail themselves of. Pre-retirement pensions are not available; they are not sick enough to do so. But they are also not healthy enough to work full time. We've been talking about flexible jobs. It's hard to get flex jobs if you come up and have to have a flex job that's 17-18 hours. It's not that easy, and if you get higher, it's completely impossible. So the other arrangements that you would like to refer those people to, where are they? And where is the labour market on which these people must be given the opportunity to continue? There is no answer to that, and as long as there is no answer, I would say that I think, unfortunately, that I must confine myself to thanking the alternative and the SF for seeing some positive tactics in this. But I would also like to thank you for that. Then I would like to say that the position of the Socialists really disappoints me very much. Because I do know that a Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, has been addressing exactly the same problem for the same group worn out that we are trying to hit here and come up with solutions to. After all, he promised that the Socialists would work to make a proposal to accommodate that group, and Enhedslisten looks forward to it very much. So it would be nice if, in this debate, the Social Democrats' rapporteur had been able to say: all right, what Enhedslisten brings here is not good enough; we will bring something much better and much more to the benefit of the group of workers we are talking about here. We haven't heard anything about that. All we are told is that this is obviously not a good and broad solution without really knowing what is wrong with the individual elements of what we have proposed. I think that is a rather poor way of tackling this issue. Then there's the thing about funding. Yes, if Enhedslisten could look in the crystal ball and say how many would avail themselves of such a scheme, we would have done so. But if you look at how it was put together in the law on early retirement passed, you can see that even the very wise people who made it could not foresee anything at all. The then Minister for Social Affairs, Mrs Karen Ellemann, thought that it would be around 8,000 or something like that that would be included in it when we reached 2020. So it has to go very fast if you're going to get that number, compared to how few hundred have got it. If you look at the bill, you can see that it has not hit the figure that was in it at all. It was just over 2,000 a year, I think. So no one can say anything about it. The only thing that can be said with certainty is how to finance it, to the extent that it costs money. There the Enhedslisten has chosen a form of funding which the Socialists should be happy about, namely this millionaire tax, and then we will turn on it to the extent that it takes to make the money fit. So the thing about saying that we have no control over funding is not right. If the Social Democratic Party wanted to, we could come a step closer to good funding of such a proposal. After today's debate it remains that until now the only concrete proposals that have been made on how to accommodate the labour market group left on the platform of the reforms that have been made are the Enhedslisten. That is not to say that it is the stone of the show and that it is the only way to do it. That is why, of course, we are also happy to enter into a dialogue in committee. I just have to point out that we are the only party that has made such a really concrete proposal on how this could be done. Perhaps you could have expected that there was a slightly more constructive and forward-looking approach to it than the one we have met from the other parties, except from the alternative and from the SF. Thank you for the debate. I'm glad I got the voice back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143118	Otherwise there is a small gajol, if it could tempt, because there are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143126	Thank you. It's very easy for Mr. Finn Sørensen to stand and regret that there is no support for the proposal. In the Danish People's Party we think that there are good tactics in it, but such obstacles are placed in the way of participation in it, among others. The millionaire tax. Here Mr. Finn Sørensen, if that's not enough, we're just gonna turn a second thank you, but can Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen doesn't explain the size of the millionaire tax? I understand that it may be difficult to say whether it should include 2,000, 4,000, 6,000 or 8,000. Of course, it can be difficult. But how big is the millionaire tax that Enhedslisten is going to put in? That's 5%, 10%. or 1%.? And how many times do you have to be able to screw that button if you need money? Is this the kind of inexhaustible source that Enhedslisten will put in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143220	I don't think it's inexhaustible. We have chosen it, even though it is not a crazy amount of money that comes out of it, but I think they would be able to cover this purpose. And then, if you adopt the proposal, you have to make a legislative proposal, and then, of course, you have to go down to the detail, and then you have to drop some money off. However, we are open to discussing other sources of funding. We just think this is so obvious. I believe that it was the alternative that provided that we could look at some other sources of funding, which also have a real social profile. Of course, we are willing to do so. So I'm gonna have to play the ball back to mr. Bent Bøgsted. If sir... Bent Bøgsted thinks that this is a good purpose and a proposal that has some good tactics, how does Mr. Bent Bøgsted so you have to find the money? So who's gonna pay if it's not the millionaires?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143312	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143314	That's very good of Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen to get it there that it is Dansk Folkeparti that must find the funding for Enhedslisten's proposal. That's not how the piano works. Sir. Finn Sørensen has to prove how much income comes from the millionaire tax, because in the past it has been the case that the Danish People's Party has been put under wraps if we have proposed something where they have said: Now you have spent the money; there is no more room for it. It must also be the case with Enhedslisten that it is not an unlimited number of proposals. Today, we have six proposals to be included in the millionaire tax. I do not know how many more proposals Enhedslisten comes along that need to be covered by the millionaire tax to be financed. Sir, I'm afraid so. Finn Sørensen explains.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143350	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143351	I am in line with the proposals we are debating here today. It has to be the case that the individual proposals describe where the money will be collected for the costs of that proposal. Then I just understood sir. Bent Bøgsted, that he believes that there are some positive tactics in this proposal. Now it might be interesting to know, and we might be able to clarify that in the committee work, what parts of the proposal are really and then it is just that I say that it has to be financed in some way, and where will Mr. Bent Bøgsted find the money if we can't let the millionaires pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143426	Sir, I'm afraid so. Bent Bøgsted answer at another time. The next brief remark is from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143434	I think it's interesting. I heard the rapporteur say in his speech that someone stood up and took a keen interest in the economy. But in all households you know that if you have a good economy, you can afford some good things at home, and everyone in here knows that you can afford better welfare. That is why it is not actually freezing, but rather interesting and imperative to take an interest in the economy. In my rapporteur's speech, I did not say to Mr. Finn Sørensen said he had no control over the funding. I told him he didn't know what it was gonna cost. But now I'm going to claim that Mr. Finn Sørensen has no control over the funding, and I will, because I have now heard that Mr. Finn Sørensen doesn't even know how much money he'll take in the millionaire tax. That means that today we have a lot of proposals, as Mr. Finn Sørensen doesn't know how much it costs. He knows where he'll take the money, but he doesn't know how much money there is. It's not gonna last. So I just have to ask again: how much is this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143541	The rapporteur is well aware that this cannot be said, because then we should be able to say how many people will take advantage of a given system. You can't do that, and sir can do that. Neither did Leif Lahn Jensen. Of course, you can get someone to give you a guess, and then you can build a bill on it. So we haven't spent our time on that in this context. It is primarily about the content of the motion for a resolution, and there is what I am saying, Mr President, that it is freezingly cold. Leif Lahn Jensen will not relate to it at all. He is more concerned with how much, if any, we would burden the poor millionaires with than the fact that here there are some concrete changes and some legislation which could accommodate a group on the labour market, such as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen and his party have otherwise made a great deal of effort to improve the conditions for. And that's what I'm saying is an ice-cold approach to a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143630	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143631	I'm preoccupied with helping a lot of people. I'm preoccupied with taking responsibility. I'm having a little trouble seeing that Enhedslisten will do that. So can Enhedslisten agree with me that Enhedslisten must mean everything, but that it is just the rest of us who have to finance it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143652	I didn't know that sir... Leif Lahn Jensen was in the millionaire category, but if he is, then I think it is all right for him to contribute to the implementation of such a proposal. Otherwise, it is a rather meaningless comment, since Enhedslisten takes a political responsibility to find the money in an appropriate percentage or a thousand, I do not know how many percentages we need to burden the poor millionaires with. We take political responsibility for that. But Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen apparently did not participate, despite the fact that it was originally an idea that the Social Democrats themselves put forward, but it was, of course, ahead of the election campaign in 2011.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143732	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143738	However, it is not serious that a large number of motions for resolutions should be tabled and that the same source of funding should then be presented for all of them: a so-called millionaire tax. How does Enhedslisten react to that among others. The wise men, who probably have a pretty good track record of economics and public finances, have been out to say that there is probably no revenue at all for the Treasury by raising the marginal tax in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143810	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143812	I think it depends on how much it is raised. I have not dealt with that calculation and have no desire to enter into a discussion on it here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143822	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143824	However, it simply underlines that Enhedslisten has not given any careful thought to how Enhedslisten's proposals are to be financed when one has not even chosen to understand what the expertise says about the source of funding with which Enhedslisten chooses to fund a large number of motions for resolutions today. Well, I guess it's not serious, and I don't even think so, sir. Finn Sørensen himself thinks so. I know, sir. Finn Sørensen will not admit it now from the platform, but in his quiet mind he knows that it is not serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143859	If I do not go into the debate, it is because I do not know the specific statement to which the rapporteur refers. It should perhaps not surprise me that if a reason why it does not provide any revenue is that it is based on some calculations that say that if you burden the goose-eyes with the well-vended section of the population, growth and welfare will suffer, and therefore it will cost a great deal. I shouldn't be surprised if that's what this is all about. I find it hard to believe that there should be no good proceeds from imposing a kind of tax on the millionaires, so that we get that way around an income that can then be used for a good social purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143934	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523143952	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523144014	Thank you. With motion for a resolution B 180, which we are going to deal with now, the Enhedslisten will, among other things, be: to abolish the duration limitation on sickness benefit and to amend a number of rules on follow-up in sickness benefit cases. My view is that the sickness benefit reform, which was adopted by a broad political majority, is based on a number of good intentions. First of all, it is at the heart of the reform that sick people are guaranteed financial security as long as the sick person is unable to work because of illness. In the past, sick people could risk being out of support even though they were still too sick to work because they did not fall under one of the extension rules and thus could not have the extended period of sickness benefit extended. It's not like that anymore. The reform introduced job clearance courses which ensure both the provision of support for sick people and a special effort during the period during which they are unable to work. It was also important for the parties to the agreement to ensure an earlier follow-up and action for the sick persons. Therefore, the deadline for re-evaluation was brought forward from 52 weeks of disease to after 22 weeks of disease. This means that the municipalities must inform the case earlier in a course of illness and decide what further action will be taken for the sick person. Early follow-up and action shall support the rapid availability of critical support and relevant assistance to return to work. I think we should stick to that. That is why I do not think that the Enhedslisten's proposal to abolish the duration limitation is the right way to go on the contrary. With the reform we have just removed the uncertainty that it is that one's dependency base may lapse while one is still incapable of working. Conversely, we should not have a system where you can simply continue to receive sickness benefit. A trust must never and never be left alone. Therefore, all sick persons are guaranteed a targeted effort early in the course of the illness. We can already see that it works. Since the entry into force of the reform on 1 July 2014, there has been an increase in the rate of return to employment around the time of the review. In this context, I would like to make it clear that the efforts undertaken by the municipalities for sick people are about taking action with a clear focus on the fact that the sick person can maintain his or her link with the labour market. I am confident that the municipalities will want their citizens the best, and I would certainly not call their efforts compulsory activation, as Enhedslisten puts it in the proposal. Let us stick to the sickness benefit reform, which is based on a thorough preparatory work by an inter-ministerial sickness insurance committee, and which a broad majority in the Danish Parliament supports and continues to follow. If, here, I am thinking of the conciliation parties, we consider that the efforts of the municipalities and the implementation of the reform do not meet the political intentions, then we will of course intervene. But we're not there now. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled, B 180. Finally, I should like to say that I have also said that it takes time to implement reforms, and I believe that we should give the sickness benefit reform time to work before we consider whether there is something that needs to be adjusted. A start-up review of the reform is about to take place, and an evaluation of the timing and interaction with health care will be launched in the summer. In this way, we continuously collect knowledge and create a good basis for discussions on how we also secure a good sickness benefit system in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523144451	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523144455	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the presentation. The Minister presents it as if the sickness benefit reform, the latest one, solved the problem of sick people being able to end up without support. That's not true, is it, sir? Minister? After all, the Minister has given me an answer which shows that if we just take those who have had the sickness benefits stopped under § 7, that is, where the municipality can only recover people, even if they are not actually healthy, then there is a 9% share on cash benefits and 13% on cash benefits. are registered as self-employed, i.e. without public benefits and without income from wages. But what was promised at the time of the reform, which the Minister's party is behind, was that if you lost sickness benefit and you were still sick, you would have to have a job clearance process and a resource progression benefit where you were not offset, and in principle there is no backside. Why, then, is it that there are still sick people who are standing without any support and who end up on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523144602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523144605	The information we have on the subject of fault management, which is being appealed over and which is being corrected, is that this is largely in line with the intentions, and that is to say the accelerated treatment with these extension options outlined. I do not believe that I, or other members of parliament or members of government, have any basis for going in to make health assessments, etc. This means that a decision is being taken along the way as to whether people are ill and that they are therefore entitled to support, or whether it is established that they are recovering or, in very few cases, that the municipality chooses to recover its citizens. So, overall, it has to be said that people are being supported by this system, as a very broad circle in the Folketing has wanted it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523144704	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523144706	Thank you. But can the Minister confirm that Article 7 of the sickness benefit law means that the municipality can recover the citizen, even if the citizen is not well, and that the citizen is therefore obliged either to go to the benefit, what one might not be able to do if, because of illness, one is not available for the labour market, or should the citizen have a different benefit? There, however, we can only see from the Minister's own figures that there are plenty of sick people who end up either on cash benefits or without support after the municipalities have stopped their sickness benefits. Would the Minister not like to deal with that problem and deal with it equally if the task has been solved?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523144746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523144747	After all, the task has been solved as a broad majority in the Folketing wanted the task to be solved. The number of citizens that the municipalities have to or decide to recover is, after all, a very, very small percentage of the total. It is clear that if a municipality makes a decision and a citizen disagrees with that decision, then there may be such a situation as Mr. Finn Sørensen asks. But there is then an appeal system that has to decide on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523144822	Thank you, Minister. This brings us to the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr Beazley's report. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523144832	As I said, the Social Democratic Government made the new sickness insurance reform to correct some of the injustices created under the bourgeois government back in the '00s. Many experienced that more than one year passed before they got in touch and help from the municipality, which we all know is necessary to get back to work quickly, that is to say that contact is made and that you are helped back to work again. Some experienced loss of support after 1 year, even though they were not healthy. Cancer victims and many other seriously ill people had to go through inhuman and unreasonable measures, even though they had not recovered. At the same time, we should say yes to others. electroshock and pills so as not to lose your sickness benefit. We are changing these things with the reform. Actions for the sick person are being speeded up, as we know that this helps with the early effort. People don't lose their support after 1 year, and now you can say no to treatments that you don't want to be part of. In other words, even though Enhedslisten will probably think otherwise, the sickness benefit reform in several respects is somewhat better than the one under the bourgeois government. Having said that, there is still something about it, as the Enhedslisten points out. If you do not mean it, you must of course also be very tone-deaf and not follow what is happening out there, because this reform does not work everywhere at all. There are still a lot of stories in the media and many inquiries from trade unions, Facebook, mail and other places that clearly show that there are major problems in this area. That is why it is right to talk about it. People are being treated unfairly and do not get the help that was really intended, the whole intention of the reform and that we really wanted them to have when we made it, and of course we reject the fact that they are not getting that help and that they are being treated unfairly. None of them sat with the reforms that wanted to happen. We were all only interested in getting these people back into the labour market. I do not think that we should just roll something back and make huge changes right now, but I think that we should make a very good follow-up and ensure that the good intentions, the good attitudes, the good thoughts we had around the table, when we were talking about this sickness benefit reform, will work and have effect. With these words, I will vote against the proposal, but I will hold the government to the intentions we had with the sickness benefit reform. I will do everything I can to make it better and make it work properly, because I can also see that, and I think everyone can see that things are still happening out there that we do not think are right and that I do not believe that the sickness benefit reform is always responsible for, but because some things are happening that I do not think are right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523145135	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523145139	Thank you. Thank you for a more constructive talk than was the case in the previous resolution, constructive because the rapporteur recognises that the reform does not work as it should, in the rapporteur's view. One can discuss whether it works as intended, and I am afraid it does, but that is fine. But I would just like to ask: what will the rapporteur actually do to get things right? After all, the rapporteur has just heard the Minister and he does not want to change anything, and he thinks it is going well. Yes, there has to be a little follow-up and something like that, but otherwise things are going very well. So what will the rapporteur do? In other words, there is a conciliation circle in which the Left and the Left rapporteurs sit and think that this is not being changed. So what will the rapporteur actually do to improve conditions for long-term ill people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523145232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523145233	In any case, I would just like to make a comment on the intention. For Enhedslisten, it used to sound as if those who stood for this were completely indifferent to them at the senior early retirement age, and that they would rather give a lot to the millionaires, and that is completely wrong. It is also totally wrong that the purpose of this was not good, because the intention was actually to get fewer on sickness benefits and more in work. That is also why I am very annoyed that it is not going everywhere as intended. It goes well in some places, and I talk to a lot of people, as it actually goes well for. I know that, of course, the Ministry is constantly looking at it, and I also know that we have to evaluate it at some point. That is also why it is good to be in a conciliation circle, because then you can take part in the evaluation and be part of the things that need to be done. I myself have been talking a lot lately with trade unions, with hinterlands and with all sorts of others in order to find the right solutions. I do not have the right solutions right now, but I have no doubt that a great many of the municipalities will just have to get their act together. Because if there are any municipalities that can, so can the others. So that is something we will be following on a regular basis, and that is something I think we should discuss, and we will do that at the conciliation table.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523145343	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523145344	Thank you. Yes, but when I made the fancy on the previous proposal, it was because I did not hear any worries being voiced from the platform on that occasion, and it was certainly the least that could have been done. But it's okay, and now we're doing this. I am, of course, sorry that the rapporteur does not support it, but I would nevertheless like to acknowledge that the rapporteur speaks, that there are some problems we need to resolve, and then it is natural that I ask how the rapporteur will approach it. How, for example, does the rapporteur intend to do so? We must ensure that the local authorities work together and administer the law, as the rapporteur believes it should be administered?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523145421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523145422	I also just have to say again that, of course, there was a concern on my part in the rapporteur's speech, and that can then be looked at tomorrow. Because there was that concern for all the worn-out, for the scaffolding workers and all the others I mentioned, who are still in trouble. So that concern was there, however, and I share it with Enhedslisten, if you are interested in listening to it. Then I just have to say that I believe that the legislation we made on sickness benefit reform was the only right one and that I just think it should be allowed to work, and that is why we need to follow it up. I cannot say at this stage, even if it is with a raised index finger in all the municipalities, but it has to start to work, and I think it will soon do so everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523145503	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523145510	Thank you, President. This motion for a resolution is about improving the handling of cases, the conditions of long-term illness. We can easily agree that there are problems for those who are long-term ill. Some people get dragged through a little more than they do. Of course, we must take this seriously. We then helped to make the new sickness benefit reform, and it has improved it in some areas, but I would like to admit that not everything is what the Danish People's Party wanted in that reform. That is always the case when many parties have to agree. Then you have to give something. The Danish People's Party wanted you to be able to keep sickness benefit longer than the 22 weeks. As Mrs Mette Frederiksen, then Minister for Employment, said, no one should lose sickness benefit. One should be guaranteed a benefit independent of one's spouse. It was the job clearance service, which was also called the resource development service. That's why some people are mixing it up. You can't mix it up. It must not be said that those who lose sickness benefit and enter the job clearance process are now in the process of resource development, which is the part of the flex job reform. It's a job clearance process that you need to get into there for clarification. There should also be more rapid clarification. But there are some problems with section 7, as Mr. Finn Sørensen's right to say. We have also seen it, because we have had deputies in committee, among other things. FOA, and there is a dialogue going on with the government and the FOA, and that is one of the things that has come after they have been appointed to the Employment Committee. It has been agreed with the Ministry that they will enter into dialogue with the FOA to see if the problems that the FOA seems to have can be solved. I shall not be able to say how many other trade unions encounter the same thing, but it is at least common among the FOA members. The minister has gone into dialogue on this. I shall not be able to say anything about when there will be a result of it. But it should not be the case that it will appear as if nothing happens, as if we are indifferent to the circle of parties to the agreements in the field of sickness benefits, as if the Minister does not care if there are any problems. We're not. It is under way, but that is why we can easily agree that there may be other things. In the Danish People's Party, we also agree with Mr. Finn Sørensen in that the proceedings should not be dragged out and dragged out. There should be a quick clarification. In fact, I think that the average for clarification in job clearance is about 1 to 11⁄2 years we can ask about it. That doesn't change the fact that there are some cases that are dragging on for longer. It's limited how long this has been going. But the intention was that within a year one should be able to have a clarification as to whether one can get back to work. But you can extend. As the then Minister for Employment, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, said at the time, it is possible to extend as long as is necessary. But, of course, we are counting on rapid clarification. However, there may be some who are going to be in job clearance for several years because they do not move forward. But that's not what's meant to be. It was to give it security. If they had first got over there, they would have at least had that benefit until they might have got back into the labour market or had to go over and have granted early retirement or flex jobs. Although the Danish People's Party thinks there are good tactics in this and can easily find things that we can agree on, it is just that the Danish People's Party is involved in a conciliation on sickness benefits and therefore cannot support this proposal, but Mr. Finn Sørensen, of course, well in advance, for sir. Finn Sørensen has so much experience from the political life in here that he knows that if you are involved in a settlement, nothing can be decided outside the conciliation circle. Then it is in the conciliation circle that it must be negotiated if changes are to be made. With those words, I would say that the Danish People's Party, although we think there are good tactics in it and we can agree with much of what is here, cannot support it because we are in a settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523145954	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523145957	I know the rules of the game very well here. However, somewhere it must feel a little poor to recognise that there are some problems and that there are no answers to all the promises that have been made, that no one should lose support, and that you could not just have your sickness benefit taken away if you were not ill, etc. And then the Danish People's Party says: there is nothing we can do about that, because we are in a settlement. Doesn't it feel a little flat?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150027	I really don't think that's what I said either. I just said that there have been deputies in here about... And, of course, we await the outcome of that dialogue between the FOA and the Minister for Employment. So it is not the case that somebody in the conciliation circle is totally indifferent to what is happening here. I think that's wrong, sir. Finn Sørensen to claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150057	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150057-2	I didn't say that either. In fact, I believe that the Danish People's Party, within the conciliation framework, is trying to influence it in a positive direction. I have no reason to believe otherwise. I just want to say that. And I actually believe that the Socialists do. That's fine. I just highlighted the small fact that a man can sit, w/k, and block changes in legislation. And that is what my question is, because it is a conciliation, is not true, and that is the rules of the game. And that's why my question is: Bent Bøgsted for changes to legislation, for it is the law's § 7 on the possibility of the municipality to recover people, even though they are not healthy, which is the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150141	Well, I can only confirm that. We are working for this in the Danish People's Party, and I think I can also confirm for my colleague Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen that we are working to solve these problems. I think I can confirm for Mr. Hans Andersen that the Left is working to solve the problem in the same way as the others, the Radical and Liberal Alliance, who are involved in the cash benefits settlement. We're trying to solve that problem. I think I can confirm that for everyone, because everyone who is in the agreement can see that there is a problem we need to resolve. And that's why it's with the Minister of Employment. He's in dialogue with FOA about this problem, and then we need to figure out how to solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150222	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150228	Thank you. In today's resolution, the Enhedslisten proposes to abolish the duration limitation on sickness benefit. Thus, the citizen will be able to continue to receive sickness benefit until the citizen can take a full-time job, begin rehabilitation, search for flex jobs or receive an early retirement pension. The Left cannot support this. Sickness benefit is a temporary allowance. We do not want you to be able to receive sickness benefit from 40 years of age until you can retire, and that could be the case if we are to follow the Enhedslisten and abolish the duration limitation. We have here a group of people who have been on sick leave for one reason or another, and we have a job to do to ensure that the sick receive the right support and follow-up on their sick leave. Among other things, it can be done. with the right support and help, the sick person receives an individual and holistic effort with the aim of getting back into the labour market. It is true, as has also been commented on in several places since today, that we have reached a broad agreement on the reform of the sickness insurance rules, and that reform was intended both to ensure financial security for the sick people in the time they cannot do a job, but also to help ensure that the effort that is being made begins at an earlier stage. That is, I think, really, really good, because rapid help in sickness insurance cases is, I believe, double help, and that is what needs to be done. When Enhedslisten also proposes that the work test only happens once or twice and that the activation should be completely abolished, we do not think that this is the right way to go either. We believe that work testing and activation can help the sick person to return to the labour market with, what to say, the right model. And it could be a model where you find the right balance in the individual's working life. Then it is true that the sickness benefit reform does not have so many years on the back. There are measures that have only been put into effect on 1 January 2015, so I look forward to the results getting even better, that even more people can get much earlier efforts and get much faster back into the labour market. I look forward to it. So, on this basis, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. And I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they cannot support the resolution either. Unfortunately, they could not be here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150549	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150552	Thank you. Everyone agrees that sickness benefit is a temporary benefit to be paid until you are either healthy and can get back to work or until you are searched for another public benefit because you have permanently lost your ability to work. So we all agree on that. But will the rapporteur recognise that, as the law now stands, the municipalities have the opportunity to stop sickness benefits for a citizen who is not well and who is therefore either on a job clearance course? These are the lucky ones, can one say, for they are receiving resource progression benefits which are not offset by the citizen's income and wealth and the spouse's income • or come on cash benefits, it is the unfortunate ones, or entirely without support by means of the cash benefits rules? Can the rapporteur confirm that this is how the law works? We have figures that many citizens are affected by it, and what will the rapporteur do about that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150701	Yes, it will be a bit of a repetition both of what the Minister for Employment mentioned and what a number of rapporteurs have mentioned. There is a dialogue at the moment within the circle of parties responsible for the sickness insurance agreement on that issue. And then you have to remember here that job clearance courses can be put in place, but if you do not get a job clearance programme, you can receive cash benefits. But if your spouse earns enough, so much so that you are not actually entitled to cash benefits, it is appropriate to note that we do have rules today on mutual dependants. I am aware of the fact that the Enhedslisten does not support those rules, but the Left does. So there are the rules that if you are not entitled to cash benefits because the household has an income that can be high, 1 million. kr. Maybe you're not entitled to cash benefits, and that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150800	Yes, but now it was a promise when it was settled on the sickness benefit reform, a promise from all parties that no one should be able to lose support. This meant that no one should risk getting into a situation where they did not have any support, and therefore this job clearance programme was introduced, even formulated as a right, but which everyone obviously does not have, because it is a fact that there are plenty of sick citizens on cash benefits, also sick citizens who have previously received sickness benefits under the sickness insurance law. And what will the rapporteur do about that problem? Or have I understood the rapporteur correctly, namely that the rapporteur is not going to do anything about this; the rapporteur is not going to change the legislation so that the municipalities cannot take sickness benefits from citizens who are not healthy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150854	As I said at the outset, there is a dialogue between the parties behind the sickness benefit reform on various issues. We must also pick up whether all the elements of sickness benefit reform are being implemented in the way we intended. But the Left has not promised as a guarantee that you cannot get into a situation where you can no longer be covered by the sickness insurance rules. I agree that there were parties which promised, in an election campaign, virtually guaranteed that you could not fall out of the sickness insurance rules, but the Left did not. This area is pretty complicated. You can be well informed without then complying with the benefit rules on being available, but we must then, by common help, ensure that the citizen gets back into the labour market by other means, because that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523150956	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. I see he wants to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523151022	Thank you very much. With this motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten will, among other things: remove the duration limitation on sickness benefit. When we made the reform of sickness benefit, it was also a theme here, as the previous government had promised at the time they were in opposition that they would remove the duration limitation on sickness benefit, which at that time was 52 weeks. The assessment was then that the removal of the duration limitation would cost the Treasury 1 billion. kr. This is because when you look at what is happening in the real world, you can see that up to the end of entitlement to sickness benefit there is a quite marked departure to employment. It therefore seems to have a duration limitation in the sickness benefit system if people are to be brought closer to the labour market, and we do so in the Liberal Alliance. It can also be seen in the real world that the likelihood that people will end up in early retirement and then get permanently out of the labour market on public support increases considerably, the longer you stay in the sickness insurance system. That is why, in our view, it is vital if people are to be brought back into the labour market that there is a limitation in the duration of sickness benefits. If you continue to be ill after 22 weeks as the duration limit is today, you can have an extension of your sickness benefit. It thus ensures that there is a balance between people who have the opportunity to get back into the labour market doing so and those who remain ill can remain in the sickness benefit system. We think that is a very, very important balance. Then I can also say that the Enhedslisten has once again chosen to use a millionaire tax as funding for this proposal too. It has to be said that there is no funding in a possible millionaire tax which can cover the costs that are being set up here, in addition to the fact that introducing a millionaire tax would be extremely damaging to Denmark, precisely reducing total employment, reducing productivity and thus reducing the development of wealth in Denmark. And since we have had very low prosperity development over the last 20 years, the fourth lowest in the OECD, and have the prospect of only the sixth lowest towards 2030, this will be extremely damaging to the Danish economy, Danish prosperity and Danish welfare, and therefore we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523151421	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523151424	I know very well that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen believes it is deeply damaging to ask the millionaires to contribute something more to our welfare society, and we probably can't do anything about that. Will Mr. Joachim B. Olsen just confirmed that the calculation to which the rapporteur referred of what would be the cost of abolishing the duration limitation, namely 1 billion. kr., was a calculation made by the Ministry of Employment, which consisted of two parts. One part was: what would the actual cost to the Treasury be? That is what the rapporteur said, so what the rapporteur said was not correct. That would be 298 million. kr. at that time. That would probably be more expensive now, because now the period has been shortened further, hasn't it? Good. The rest were figures which I would call magic figures based on the assumption that if you give sick people sickness benefit, you keep them away from the labour market. That's why it got so expensive. I should just like to say that the rapporteur agrees with the view that if you give sick people who per. What is the Commission's position on the proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523151537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523151538	I can confirm that this is how the figure of 1 billion is. kr. has emerged, but there is no hokuspocus in it. It is because you look out in the real world and look at how real people in the real world respond to changes in systems. There, in Denmark and Sweden too, I believe, where, at one point, the limitation of duration was abolished, it could be observed that this meant that people stayed much longer on sickness benefits. And we do not think this is appropriate, especially for the people we are dealing with here. Then I am of the opinion that Finn Sørensen strongly simplifies the discussion by saying that it is sick people in the sense that it is not some people who are able to move. Well, one thing is if you have a broken leg, for example. Then, of course, you need to be on sickness benefit, until your leg heals and you can return to the labour market. The vast majority of those who are in contact with the sickness benefit system do so, moreover. I think it is about 450,000 a year, and 90%, as I recall, will return to the labour market itself. However, there are other diagnoses which are more complicated and where it can therefore be seen that the fact that there is a limitation in duration of sickness benefit actually means that people return to the labour market. We welcome this and we will therefore stick to a limitation in duration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523151719	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523151721	I have not claimed that sick people are unable to move if the rapporteur thereby believes that they are not in a position to get into a position where they can work. We fully agree that sickness benefit is a temporary benefit. However, the rapporteur does agree that in order to receive sickness benefit you must have some medical evidence that you are ill, otherwise you cannot get it. So you're sick. And is it so reasonable that you can get into a situation where you are still away sick, but where the municipality still has the opportunity to take the sickness benefit from you? Is that fair? Let us try to deal with it in such a human way: Is it a reasonable situation to place a sick person in? And these are the long-term sick people we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523151813	I would like to call on the two rapporteurs to try to use the indicative times that we have in 1⁄2 and 1 minute. It'll be easier. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523151823	But we do not seem to agree that sickness benefit is a temporary benefit, because we are dealing with a motion for a resolution in which the Enhedslisten will abolish the duration limitation, and so it will no longer be a temporary benefit. So we do not seem to agree on that. Then we have just received a major analysis of what is actually going on in the field of sickness benefits, and we can see that the number that the municipalities declare to be healthy against the will of the citizen, if that is to say, is a very, very small number, and that it is also quite limited how many mistakes are made by the municipalities on this issue. Of course, it is not good for mistakes to be made at all, but it is, after all, a very, very limited circle of people we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523151925	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. It could not challenge anyone else to make a brief comment, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523151948	Thank you. In preparing the Alternative's position on B 180 from the Enhedslisten on improving the conditions of long-term illness, we have looked a little bit at the reactions to the existing legislation that have come from the interest organisations. Here we notice that at the end of last year the Danish Social Advisor Association conducted a survey of 251 social workers from 66 different municipalities working in the country's job centres to find out if 22 weeks is enough time to assess the working capacity of sick people. According to two thirds of the social workers surveyed, it is technically indefensible that they should already assess the working capacity of seriously ill citizens after 22 weeks. From 3F the report was on the same occasion that many of 3F's members lose their sickness benefit before their health condition is clear. This is among other things. citizens with cancers, mental disorders or arthritis. Their diseases are very complex, and then they end up in a job clearance process. It is unfair for the citizen because it is often external factors, such as waiting times in the hospital system, that they cannot be resolved within the 22 weeks. In the alternative, we believe that the comments made by relevant interest groups legitimise an improvement in the conditions of long-term illness. The present proposal proposes to abolish the 22-week duration limitation so that sickness benefits continue until the sick person is well and can take over full-time work, begin rehabilitation, receive a flexible job or early retirement, etc. We think it is good to set limits on the length of the proceedings, including all the various offers and measures, and to remove compulsory activation. We generally support the content of this proposal and, when we come closer to what this proposal costs, we would also like to help find a financing other than the millionaire tax, which is not a tax reform that the alternative has agreed to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523152144	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523152200	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we are opposed to rolling back a reform aimed at taking much faster care of people who cannot go to work for a time or can no longer go to work because of illness. That is why we are against the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution. Does this mean that there are no real challenges in the handling between citizens and case managers and municipalities? Of course not. I'm sure there is. We will meet that, we will hear about it, and we will talk about it with our municipal representatives. We are looking into this and it takes time to ensure that implementation takes place properly all the way from reform to concrete handling of each case. I really believe that we all agree that each individual must be taken seriously, that each individual must be treated with dignity. I am quite sure that the municipalities also mean that when we ask them and all our own representatives out there. I am also quite sure that every case officer thinks so too. But is it the experience of all the people who experience disease? I think we are all aware of this. This is a challenge and we must all take it seriously. We have to listen to that, and so do we. That is why we have to follow the implementation of this work very closely and at the end of the day, but I expect, and I have confidence in it too, because I think that the Minister expressed the view that the Minister has a close dialogue with the municipalities about this very thing and that we in the conciliation circle will also follow it and have a close dialogue on it. That is why we are opposed to this motion for a resolution, and that is probably not surprising.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523152356	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523152402	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur's party was one of those parties because the rapporteur's party was in government at the time that presented this sickness benefit reform. So the rapporteur was behind the promise that, when the change was made, the period of sickness was reduced to 22 weeks, and the right to a job clearance course and benefit was introduced, we would not be in a situation where sick people lost their dependants. But the figures I have received from the Minister for Employment, most recently in an answer to Question No. 350, of course, confirms what everyone knows and which there are plenty of examples in the media, namely that sick people end up on cash benefits or without support because of the rules on cash benefits. Can we then say that we lived up to the promises made at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523152452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523152453	We fully agree that not everything works the way it should, outside, human to human. There are many things that do not do that because there is a step from reform. That is what we are adopting in here to something becomes reality. But what this is all about is that far earlier on, and I'm fully in line with the intentions of this reform and also much of the work that's being done out there... getting hold of people who are sick or at the risk of becoming sick, so that it can just avoid being long-term or permanent. Does it work optimally everywhere? It certainly does not, and that is what needs to be followed up and followed up at the door. But we cannot sit in this Parliament and change legislation every time there are individual cases where things do not work as intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523152553	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523152555	Well, I'm not just talking about individual cases. If you dive into the minister's answer, you can see that it's not just individual cases... it's quite a lot of people who get hit by this. I would like to return to the question. There was a promise that there would not be any sick people who would end up without support or on cash benefits for that matter, because this job clearance was introduced. They said: Now you are entitled to such a job clearance process as there was, and that is something of the good thing about it, no one is at the back of it. But yet it happens, and I just ask, do you live up to the promises? And what exactly are we going to do about that problem in the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523152635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523152636	I think I have just explained that this is being taken seriously. I really think it is taken seriously by all the rapporteurs and all the parties in the conciliation circle. Such reforms do not work everywhere from day one; they must be followed to the door, and they must be followed closely during the implementation of the dialogue between the minister, the conciliation circle, the municipalities which have to implement, and all the way to the individual case officer who sits with the individual citizen. I do not think we have exactly the same view of what it means to have a different view of things. It is clear that some citizens have a different view, and that will probably continue and always be the case, in other words that they will feel unfairly treated. And it is in that meeting between the case officer and the individual that we need to find out how to get the most worthy, the best solution at all. But that will not only mean that we will then have to have more long-term benefits; on the contrary, it means that we need to pay much more attention to how to put in place early and to get clarification and that people, if they are permanently ill, will have the opportunity to be on an equivalent service.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523152750	Thanks to Sofie Carsten Nielsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523152804	To this extent, the SF is not so impressed by the reform that is taking place, but it is better than the old one, because we think it was a good thing that the risk that many people faced of losing their trust when they were ill was addressed. But there are, among other things. A gap arose which we are regularly presented with, namely the situation in which a citizen of the municipality is declared healthy, but when the people show up in their box, those who are assessed as too sick to take a job. That is what happens when you introduce some things. Then there are things that can be solved in some places, and new challenges and problems or gaps arise elsewhere. We also have to note that the sickness benefit reform does not work optimally in all respects in all municipalities, and the call must then be made quite clear to those citizens who do not feel properly treated: complaints about the decision that is being taken. The SF looks forward very much to a thorough evaluation of the reform and therefore cannot support the proposal from the Enhedslisten, but the ideas from the Enhedslisten, which have been put forward on this point too. And it shows that it would be very good if the Enhedslisten, both in this context and in others, made greater efforts to actually become part of the conciliation circles, so that the good ideas can be brought to bear internally where decisions are taken in order to correct imbalances.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523152935	There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523152938	Thank you. I am sure the rapporteur would be very disappointed if I did not ask a question. I just have to comment on being part of the conciliation circle. The Enhedslisten would like to do so, but the price of being part of the conciliation group was to accept in advance some deteriorations, some rather serious deteriorations, namely a shortening of the sickness benefit period by 7 months, just to mention one important thing. It took quite a different direction from what the Enhedslisten wanted and which the Social Democrats, Radicals and SF had promised together with the Enhedslisten before the elections, namely that we should abolish the duration limitation on sickness benefit, not that we should shorten the period of sickness benefit. So that's why we weren't in the settlement, we weren't even allowed to get inside when we questioned the premises. The rapporteur said that the new law is better than the old one. I just can't make that right. As a starting point, the sickness benefits end 7 months earlier than they did before, and this section 7 has not been corrected. After all, this is not a new problem, namely that the municipality can stop sickness benefits even if the citizen is not well. So what does the rapporteur say about the two problems, and what is the rapporteur's response to all the people who are affected by the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523153054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523153055	That there is still a long way to go, but that this reform we see as a better place to be than in the old one. That doesn't mean that we think this is ideal or that it's perfect. That is what I said in my introduction. But overall, we think that with the old reform you had the risk of and constantly focus on when you went over the edge and down into a black hole where you got no support at all, whereas we have now, after all, lifted that concern from the shoulders of many sick people. It is, of course, a concrete assessment that the advantage was greater than that we did not achieve all the other things we would have liked to have had.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523153129	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523153132	Thank you, but now, for example, we have... FOA and 3F pointed out that one of the consequences of shortening the period of sickness benefit to 22 weeks is that many citizens do not have time to clarify their health because the health system cannot keep up. Nevertheless, they lose their sickness benefit, yet they are set at DKK 7,000. down to benefit from the sickness benefit rate and down to the resource progression benefit. Is that fair? I do not really think the rapporteur thinks it is. What will the rapporteur do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523153207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523153208	No, of course it is not fair and, as we have mentioned sometimes in this debate, this reform clearly does not work as intended in all respects and in all municipalities. Perhaps I do not think the answer should be when we face obvious challenges not only in the area of which Mr. Finn Sørensen takes up here, but also on others, that you think the old scheme was better. In so far as it had the same challenge, at the same time as people lost their livelihoods. It is always a problem when you do not go at the same pace in the health system and in the municipal system where you have to declare people healthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523153244	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Finally, Mr President, it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten, the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523153307	Thank you and thank you for the debate. In any case, a great deal of thanks to the alternative for their support. We shall see how the committee procedure will be, but it is a good starting point for cooperation that we have understood what the legislative proposal is and share the intentions. It then gives a more mottled picture when we look beyond the rest of the rapporteurs. Some of them like the intentions, and I would like to acknowledge that they have been expressed positively. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs from the conciliation block, if I may use the word which recognises that the law does not work at least as they would like it to work. We can discuss again whether it is working as intended. I am a little afraid that it does, because I am not sure that the intention of the law fully corresponds to the view of the intentions, such as, for example. The rapporteur for the Socialist Group has. So that's good enough. And that is always a small step forward when many recognise that there is a problem. Then you have to be optimistic and think that maybe a tiny light is on in the dark and that at some point we can have some changes. But what is the problem here is that until now there has been only one party on the platform who, apart from the Enhedslisten, has wanted to deal with the substance of the matter, namely that if we want to correct the problems we are discussing here, then we need to change the legislation. It is the law that is wrong with it. And there I would like, and this is also what we have done on the part of the Enhedslisten, to return to what we agreed before the 2011 elections with the Social Democrats, the Radical and Socialist People's Party and which we promised the electorate that we would implement if we were to gain power because this is no new problem that the trade union movement has been pushing for years to improve and resolve this, namely to abolish the duration limitation on sickness benefits. That is exactly what our proposal is about. Then there are some who say that these are automatic reactions. If you want to abolish the duration limit on sickness benefit, it is because you have to have endless sickness benefits for an infinite period of time. That's bullshit. If you don't hear what's being said, then you don't read what's in the bill. Sickness benefit is a temporary benefit, yes, which you are entitled to because you meet certain employment requirements, which in turn are conditional on having been in the labour market. It is, of course, the case that the sickness benefit scheme is linked together; it is a security for employees. But, of course, it is a temporary service, and how is it thought? It is, of course, until now that you are either well or you can be awarded a permanent benefit because you are unable to support yourself through work • it may be early retirement, it may be rehabilitation, it may be a flexible job. It is the case that the scheme is intended. So don't come and claim that Enhedslisten believes that you just have to have sickness benefit for an infinity. On the contrary, we believe that the municipalities must tighten up very carefully and that they should also have the opportunity to do so financially, perhaps we should add a few words so that they can find out as soon as possible what the situation of the citizen in question is and what benefit the citizen should naturally receive from it. If you are not able to support yourself through work, that will be one of the three other benefits I mentioned. And when you're healthy and the doctor says you're healthy, then you have to go back to work, and then sickness benefits fall away. That's the mechanics of it. And that is something that everyone agrees on, so do not present it in a different way than the proposal is actually intended. So I would also like to thank the alternative for reminding us of the protagonists of the trade union movement. Among other things, there are: FOA put a lot of focus on the impact of § 7 it also has 3F compared to how the shorter period of sickness benefit works, because it is not only a matter of § 7. The municipality has had that opportunity for many years to recover citizens, even though they were not healthy. It sounds paradoxical, but it is possible for the municipalities, and that is a major problem in itself. But it is also the shorter period of sickness benefit because we find ourselves in a situation in which citizens are not in a state of health, but are still deprived of their sickness benefit. Then there was one of the rapporteurs who was up saying that and I think that was a statement that there weren't so many mistakes in these cases. Yeah, exactly the 7 cases look pretty serious. According to the Ankestyrelsen there are errors in 31%. of the cases, so it was probably worth looking at it much more thoroughly. Then I think there is another perspective missing here. It has not been so long since we have had major debates here in the Danish Parliament on the reforms of the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule. Fortunately, we in the opposition have unanimously criticised the government for now bringing together legislation that hit hard among sick people and people with disabilities who were on cash benefits. Hello. There we got an answer: No, no, sick people should not be on cash benefits, they should be on another benefit, early retirement or sickness benefit or rehabilitation, whatever it may be. All the possibilities were mentioned. How does this relate to the answers we have received here today, when the governing parties and unfortunately also a little Socialists are very opposed to the fact that the legislation that has been made does not live up to the promises made when it was introduced because it is still the case that sick people can end up on cash benefits or without support as a result of this legislation? And it is not only § 7 that we are talking about here, so that the municipality simply stops with the sickness benefits, even if people are not healthy, it can also happen after the 22 weeks, if the municipality considers that the person is ill, that he is not in a position to work, but that he does not fulfil one of the seven extensions that are linked to some very specific purposes. And the people who are in the middle there, who do not fit in one of those boxes, risk losing their sickness benefit and going down the black hole anyway, despite a promise that no one would be able to lose their support. So I really think there is reason for the parties behind that reform, and it is after all all all parties except the Enhedslisten and then the alternative which has come into the parliament since then I do not think that Mr. Uffe Elbæk was in on it, I wouldn't hope he was; he was, it gets nodded, I am so sorry that he was, but it wasn't as a party leader, and they're gonna have to deal with that somewhere else, really should look themselves in the mirror and ask themselves, "Have we done this right now? and also face the fact that if this is to be corrected, you will not avoid making a change of law similar to what Enhedslisten is proposing here. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154022	It's not quite over yet. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen has asked for the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154026	We can always discuss whether it is inferior or better. I also said in my rapporteur's speech that I probably did not get the Enhedslist to say that. I would also just like to correct: there were seven extensions, and then we did the eighth because we thought that those affected by life-threatening disease in particular should be included. So there are eight. But that's not what I wanted to ask you. I think we are very much in agreement on what we want for the sick, namely that we want them to return to the labour market quickly, that we want them to be healthy and that they should go where they want to be. But it is just the case that when we make politics in this Chamber, we also have to make policies that are affordable. I therefore have to ask Enhedslisten again: how much is this proposal? The Enhedslisten was a little interested in the limitation of duration • How much does it cost? We simply have to take a look at this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154121	This is a bit like the other situation: no one can say exactly what it costs. I think it'll be a little easier with this than with the senior pre-retirement. If we start from the calculation made by the former Minister for Employment on a question from me, we can see that it will cost 300 million. kr. In addition, since I do not recognise the conditions that were laid down, that is to say that it will be much more expensive, because then sick citizens will be kept away from the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154158	Now it is not just the limitation of duration. There are other things in it, so there are other things that can cost money, and there we have not received any bids either. But yes, as the rapporteur says, it is rather similar to the second discussion, but it does not say much about me; it may say more about Enhedslistens as party, which again has a proposal, they do not know what costs and therefore they cannot know how much money is available. And I wonder if we are not going to ask about that in the next two cases, because it is exactly the same thing. So in this discussion it is perhaps more Enhedslisten who has a problem because they apparently just make politics without having control of the finances at all and from where the money comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154239	If the rapporteur wants to read the proposal, he can see that we have indicated a source of funding and if it is to dry out for one reason or another, we will find some others. I think that we should discuss here the position on how to treat sick people in the labour market and discuss concrete proposals for solutions. And if there is a majority or, for that matter, a minority behind us, that we now have to implement some real solutions, instead of there being a lot of talk about us talking about it in the conciliation circle, and that we are now writing out to the municipalities and telling them to behave properly if there is a real will to find out what the solutions are, then we will also be able to calculate quite specifically what it costs and find the funding. I really think it is very fair that we are doing what we are doing: we are reporting out what it is for a social group to help solve this problem. Well, then that's what you could relate to. And I cannot understand why this is so difficult for the Socialists. They have themselves marketed a millionaire tax up to the last parliamentary elections, so I do not see what the problem is for the Social Democrats at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154340	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154342	Thank you. It's just to follow up on what Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen said, and as we talked about in the previous proposal, that is the fact that a motion for a resolution is being tabled without knowing the consequences of it financially. You just say, it's a millionaire tax. And as Mr. Finn Sørensen said earlier: If it is not enough, we will just turn the button on the millionaire tax once again. It's kind of a mysterious way of making legislation. In other words, you get an idea for some legislation, and then you drive forward, because you always find out about the funding. Then you can see if the proposal is going to happen, and if it is going to happen, then you look at it in every detail, and then you find out what it costs. This is a strange way of making legislation. But that may be what Enhedslisten does normally.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154434	Yes, it is perhaps also a strange way of discussing that, when some concrete proposals are proposed for amendments to a legislation, with which the conciliation parties clearly have some tremendous problems, we are immediately plunged into the fact that there are not just crowns and ears on how many people will now be covered by this bill. I do not think that the individual MP has the great opportunity to sit out and if you do, it can quickly become something unqualified. So there I see it as if there is a willingness to continue working on this proposal, we are asking the Minister some questions and getting to know what it is actually going to cost. And then we have just given it to the other rapporteurs, we can say, politically speaking, that we have pointed out where to find the funding. That is, I suppose, what we need to move forward in the discussion. So I think it would have been much better for the rapporteurs, rather than throwing themselves at that part, to have dealt with what specific changes need to be made to legislation in order to keep the promises they have made and to be able to treat sick people properly. We have not received any proposals for this from the parties behind this sickness insurance law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154548	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154549	I do not think it is very serious to ask the Minister just to calculate what it costs if there is a chance that it will happen. You can make all kinds of proposals, and then you can see if they come into being and then you find out about the funding. We in the Danish People's Party feel that we cannot table resolutions without being able to say what they cost. That's why I'm asking. I can see that Enhedslisten then has a different view on it. It is that you just make general funding for everything, and then you see how much you need. And if the proposal comes into being, you get the minister to make a calculation of how much it costs the time that grief. This is just not what we do in the Danish People's Party. That is why I am asking what it costs to finance, but I understand that you are just turning the button once more on the millionaire tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154637	It is, of course, because we consider that the costs are of an order of magnitude which makes it possible to finance it in this way. And if we are wrong, or if there is a majority in the negotiations to make such a proposal, then there are some other views on the same level about how we can finance something like this. The alternative has done, yes, then we'll look at it. I regard this as a minor problem in terms of getting some concrete proposals for solutions on the table here in the Folketing, and we still lack that from the parties behind the sickness insurance reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154714	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154716	Sir. Finn Sørensen uses words as unqualified. It is, of course, politically legitimate that Enhedslisten wants to abolish the duration limitation on sickness benefits. It is a legitimate political wish. Finn Sørensen says that our objections to funding are unqualified, I just have to say that there is a great deal in it, as Mr. Finn Sørensen says, which is very, very unqualified. Firstly, there is funding. Here I have explained in the past that the economic wise men consider that there is no revenue for the Treasury by introducing a millionaire tax. Secondly, Mr. Finn Sørensen, that it has no behavioural consequences to remove the duration limitation on sickness benefit, that it will not mean that it will change for those who are now moving from sickness benefit to employment and that they will not be retained in the sickness benefit system if we abolish the duration limitation, despite the fact that we know from the real world where it has been observed in Denmark and in other countries that it has the very clear effect that this is what is happening in the real world. Sir. Finn Sørensen cannot support his arguments and cannot argue objectively for the opposite point of view, because there are no factual arguments, because we know from observations in the real world that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154856	What I was dealing with is the calculation on which the rapporteur and I had a small exchange of views when the rapporteur was on the floor, namely the former Minister of Employment's calculation that it would cost 1 billion. kr. the abolition of the duration limitation on sickness benefit and the 700 million. kr. It is due to the fact that the job supply was affected. That was the main argument in it. I simply do not accept the idea that we should be harming the supply of work, that we should provide sick people with sickness benefits, because they do not already participate in the supply of work for the simple reason that they are ill. So it's quite illogical to argue that way. I don't remember using the word unqualified. I can, of course, draw back a little, because there have of course been some high-paid professors sitting there and counting on it. So I just have to say that I simply do not recognise that thinking and that is why I do not accept the calculation either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154957	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523154958	But with all due respect, it is not a question of recognizing a thinking. It's not. This is a matter of having some economists whether they sit at the universities, in the Ministry of Employment or the Ministry of Finance who, through personal numbers, observe how real people in the real world act on changes to different systems. That's how it works. It's not just a matter of faith. This is a very serious matter. It's always a guess, of course, but it's a very, very qualified guess that hits quite precisely when you look at the historical development. So, it's Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen, who is extremely unspeakable and comes with many unqualified postulates from Parliament's platform when he does not recognise the research that is in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523155059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523155101	I am very pleased with this debate, because we have now come to the conclusion that the rapporteur himself recognises that this is a guess and that a guess is based on some grounds. And the basic premise is that providing sick people with sickness benefit would be detrimental to the supply of work. I do not recognise that premise. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523155124	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. No one else wishes to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523155145	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523155226	Thank you. The Enhedslisten wants to change the criteria for both early retirement and resource progression. That is the reason for the two motions for resolutions which we will be discussing, B 181 and B 182. The current criteria relate to the broad reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, which entered into force on 1 January 2013. With the reform there has been an absolutely necessary paradigm shift in relation to how we as a society view our most vulnerable citizens. I believe that everyone behind the reform agrees that vulnerable citizens should no longer be parked on passive early retirement if there are other options. We don't want to give up people. Vulnerable citizens must be part of the community and the whole reform is built around that view of people. The aim is for more people to have a link with the labour market and for the least possible to end up with permanent passive support. It is therefore entirely in line with the aim of the reform that the approach to early retirement has fallen. It is also in line with the aim of the reform that a much larger proportion of citizens are searched for resource paths and flex jobs. Citizens with a potential ability to work must be helped to develop it and, depending on the individual's situation, it can, for example. be in flex jobs or in a process of resource development. We shall discuss the flex-job scheme later when we deal with motions for resolutions B 183 and I shall now focus on motions for resolutions B 181 and B 182. When we look at resource sequences, I would like to make it clear that the starting point for a sequence of resources is that the citizen has a capacity to work with a potential for development that can be realised and developed in the labour market in the long term. Today, some 16,000 citizens participate in a resource cycle where there is the opportunity to have a holistic and multidisciplinary effort with a focus on developing the ability to work. Resource progression is not about testing what the citizen can or can not do in a business. Resource processes are about developing the citizen's ability to work, and therefore the effort can consist of both employment, social and health services put together in the best possible way and in the order that best suits the individual. The resource cycle is organised on the basis of a concrete and individual assessment of the needs and challenges of the citizen. The assessment shall be carried out on a basis that is thoroughly elucidated from all angles of the municipal rehabilitation team. This means that it is case officers from both the social and employment and health sectors who, together with a health coordinator from the region, assess the situation of the individual citizen and, from this point of view, stop what efforts the citizen should have during the process of resource development. The citizens' case is thus dealt with by a qualified and professional team, and we do not want to change that. We should not from a central point of view regulate complicated and concrete assessments of, for example, the environment. capacity for work and development potential. Instead, we must support the municipalities in providing good resource processes with high quality content, and that is my very clear focus, because quality has not always been good enough. I and the conciliation circle agree on that. It is essential for the reform that the processes of resources have a content that makes a real difference to the individual citizen. That is why, in the conciliation circle, we have launched a comprehensive project to ensure that the good experiences with resource processes benefit the whole country. For there is certainly good experience, and we must not forget that there too. There are, among other things: launched a user survey of 4,000 citizens participating in or having participated in a resource cycle. The survey should give a representative picture of the citizen's experience of the effort, because a successful process of resource development is very much about the citizen's feeling involved and can see himself in it. We need a real insight into what is going well and where action must be taken with the eyes of the citizens. I think we can all agree that there are no snapshot solutions when it comes to helping our most vulnerable citizens into the labour market. This requires a long-term effort, and that is precisely the purpose of a process of resources and the rest of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. Pre-retirement pensions were not abolished with the reform, even for young people, even though they sometimes get the impression from some participants in the debate. Persons who are so ill or so severely reduced in function that it is evidently pointless to try to develop their ability to work must continue to be granted early retirement. The reform does not change that. There must be meaning and perspective in things. Citizens with significantly reduced ability to work should not be dragged through courses if it is evidently pointless to develop their ability to work in advance. For the same reason, we have just adopted a legislative proposal which makes it easier for cases to be dealt with quite clearly. The whole reform of early retirement and flexible jobs is in stark contrast to what the Enhedslisten will achieve with the two motions for resolutions, and I would like to warn against going back to the old-fashioned view of citizens' potential, where citizens with reduced working capacity were convicted from the start out of the labour market. Can it be imagined that we politicians from central level will have to set limits on how much capacity people need to have before we will give them a chance and an opportunity to become part of the community, and that we will then have to set municipalities to focus, with a measuring band, on people's problems instead of their resources, and then to achieve a percentage reduction in their ability to work? In my opinion, this is a proposal in the quite wrong direction. Nor would I recommend that the resource flows be reduced to one year, as the Enhedslisten wishes, when it is precisely through a long-term and targeted process that the aim is to try to bring the citizens back into the labour market. That is why the government cannot support the motions for resolutions tabled, B 181 and B 182. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the government, together with the conciliation circle, is closely following the area and that we are particularly aware that the resource processes have a content that can meet the high expectations of the reform. Since 2013, we have been engaged in a long-term investment in the most vulnerable citizens. This requires a great deal of change, and I would like to call for us all to be willing to think more long-term and patiently, while, of course, we take action when it is necessary. We must never go back to the sins of the past, where efforts were made to measure the extent of people's problems, ignore resources and potentials and then award them public benefits for the rest of their lives. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160125	Sir. Finn Sørensen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160127	Thank you. I think it's a rude thing to say. Well, here we can give early retirement, and then we did so without any assessment of the citizen's options. It is, of course, a completely distorted picture of what was going on in the municipal administration before, but that is of course a very good excuse when it comes to cutting down the conditions for sick people. I would like to ask the Minister: how is it really going with the matter of becoming part of the community? Because I understand that the minister believes that the only community of which it is worth being a part is the working community, and that is what the minister is talking about. What is the situation with regard to this reform? I have asked questions in the past about what happened when people have been in resource processes and they have completed it. It turned out that 2.7%. came into ordinary employment. Now I have asked a number of questions to clarify this and I look forward to the answer, I cannot understand that it will be so long before it comes, but I have asked the questions to know where you are actually going as a result of all these reforms. When people lose the public service they were at, where do we end up? According to the Minister's own figures, which were valid until March 2015, however, on resource development, which was supposed to be a replacement for early retirement, we know that 2.7%. Got into an ordinary job. How does the Minister himself feel?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160301	First of all, a comment on the case workers: my assessment is that we live in a society where both civil servants and women and citizens do what the legislation implemented here in the Folketing invites us to do. I have not sparked criticism of the way in which the case workers have managed the previous legislation, but we have seen a picture of the administration and application of the previous legislation, which has resulted in some steps which a large majority of the Folketing did not wish to name. Therefore, these changes. If we look at how things are going then I think things are going very differently. In other words, there is no doubt that there have been challenges in a number of municipalities in establishing resource processes which convinced citizens of the benefits to them in implementing the resource processes. The positive thing is that there are also a number of municipalities where things are actually going very well and where you can see that both citizens, the local press and the municipality are excited about the development. What the end result is, Mr. Finn Sørensen or me. The way things are now, we are beginning to get figures on it, that is, where the sequences of resources that have been completed, but there are few, end up. What the final picture is about 5, 6, 7, 8 years, time must show. What matters to me is that we find processes that ensure that the final stages represent the potential of the individual citizen in respect of the potential of the citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160449	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160451	I do not think it is so difficult to predict what the result will be. It is that thousands of people who are unable to work have to live too low benefits for years or completely without benefits, because there are also some who are completely losing support as a result of this legislation. Would the Minister not like to consider how the Minister feels when the job effect, that is. the number of people entering ordinary employment as a result of this reform is only 2.7%. I guess it hasn't gotten much better since then, but we'll see about that. When approx. 40% of them anyway got early retirement, how does the Minister think it is going? Is he just excited that the municipalities and the state saved that money in one year, and that is what this is all about?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160542	It seems like Mr. Knox... Finn Sørensen could not even imagine that I am actually concerned that the citizens are being given the right treatment. If that's the case, 40%. were entitled to an early retirement pension, it is good that they have received an early retirement pension. If it is the case that we have got young people into a process so that they have a foothold in a community rather than being parked on early retirement at a really early age, it is very good for the people concerned. The crucial thing for me is that the outcomes we are going to see are outcomes that correspond, as I said before, to the real capacity and potential for development of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160621	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160624	In the alternative, we do not just think that the reform should be rolled back 100 per cent. To where it was before. There are also good stories from resource cycles. I also receive good stories about people who have found development opportunities etc. etc., but we all also receive really, really unhappy stories. It swarms into our email trays and it is described on Facebook. Everywhere there are people who describe how they are parked in a system they can't get away from, for years, death sickness and against doctors' recommendation and something like that. So with regard to the part of the reform, i.e. the battle side, the very, very clear battle side, which must now be completely clear to all of us, when will the Minister take the initiative to correct it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160715	After all, we have taken the initiative to rectify this. We are doing very intensive work on the part of the government, on the part of the Ministry, in relation to all municipalities and, above all, in relation to the municipalities that have implementation challenges with this. We need to be aware that this multi-disciplinary cooperation is, after all, a very large transformation that is being carried out with the establishment of rehabilitation teams, and I think the good thing is that it is very good that it is very respectful that you get it all in. Then there are municipalities that have had a great deal of difficulty in establishing these resource processes in a way that gave them the benefit and understanding of the citizens, but we are working on this in contact. We have emergency services, etc., so we are working intensively to get the last municipalities involved. I hope that we can start to see the good processes and the good results for the municipalities that are best, so that other municipalities can learn from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160824	Here's another question for the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160827	Well, just in the end, is there any deadline for that work? When will it be in place? And secondly, if it turns out that it costs some money, will you be inclined to find it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160843	After all, the work we are carrying out is ongoing, and I am convinced that, for example, we are. In a year's time, the review in Denmark, that is to say in our municipalities, will be significantly different from the review we are working with now. I have not heard that there is anywhere to be financial problems in making this work. It has been more problems of understanding, i.e. to make the whole concept work in such a way that citizens were given the necessary help in understanding what the meaning of these processes of resources was for the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160928	Are there any more brief comments? There isn't. Then we thank the Minister. The next is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523160941	Thank you for that, President. It is incredibly important to me, as a Social Democrat, that we all give a chance in life and that we ensure that we continue to fight to ensure a better life for everyone until all opportunities are exhausted. I believe that it is best for everyone to be part of a working community and to be closer to the labour market. I myself have been out there for many years, and I know what it means to be part of it to meet other people and feel like you're making a difference. I do not believe that many people will be happy to be kept out and that no one is showing interest in them, and it was precisely with these thoughts and the intention to get more people into the working community and give even more opportunities to bite into the labour market that we did the new early retirement reform in 2013. An important part of the reform was the so-called resource cycle, which we must say is now known by everyone, that is to say, a process in which we need to be clear about whether we can take a job, a flexible job, or whether we need to take early retirement, a course that is with the individual, for the individual and in a way that makes the individual feel safe and feels worth it. That was the intention. Does it work as intended, and has everything gone as expected? No, it certainly isn't, and we've all heard that too, sir. Torsten Gejl mentioned something about • getting some stories into Facebook and in e-mails about it. I have also talked to a lot of people in recent years, as rapporteur, and there have been a lot of stories, or I would actually like to say more horror examples of people who have been treated incredibly badly in this process of resource development. I would like to say again and again that we Socialists will, of course, distance ourselves from this and we will do everything we can to change it and make the reform work as intended. It has also done as we have heard the Minister say that the Minister and the parties to the conciliation have decided to make a guide. There are apparently municipalities that have not quite been able to find out, although others have been able to find out, what the good course of resources is, what to do, what to expect of you, how to treat the sick, how to make sure that they come along, and how to feel that they are part of this effort, and how to do it with them and for the individual, so that the individual also feels safe. It wasn't really everyone who knew, and that's why you had to make these guides and also a travel team that could then go out and tell the municipalities about these things. At the same time, we have also made simplifications which we have had in the Chamber before, which means that people are granted early retirement if that is obvious. Having said that, I must certainly admit that not everything is good, because that is far from it. Then there are also resource cycles that work, and we must also bear that in mind when we look at those reforms. We should not just do what Enhedslisten is probably trying to do, namely draw a huge scare picture that it doesn't work at all, because there is also something that works. After all, we were in the Employment Committee on a committee trip over in West Jutland a few weeks ago, and there we met some from a company where there were also people who had become sick, just as they do many other places, and they went through this process of resource development. As a result, someone got several hours, and someone else came after this resource cycle almost full-time. The people here experienced the process as a good course, as a course with a really good result, and I have no doubt that the sequence of resources they experienced and that is also what they told us was exactly the sequence of resources that the conciliation parties and myself and the Social Democrats had thought of when we knitted it together. In other words, the people we met marked the course of resources in the good way and in the way it should be, at least according to what I mean and the party means. But I would also like to say, because of everything I have said about the fact that it is obviously not everywhere that we can find out, that we are, of course, following the processes of resources closely. However, when I said in connection with the last resolution that I was about to lift the index finger, I would like to say that this is just before we raise the index finger a little higher, because this reform now has a few years behind it. In those words, we shall vote against the proposals from the Enhedslisten. But I just have to say that when I look at the cameras, I hope that some people from outside the municipalities will follow along a little, and that they will see that, in this respect, we want a clear improvement in this area. We want a greater focus on resource cycles. We want resources to work, and we also want this to have its effect all over the country, as it does in many municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523161446	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523161450	I am pleased that the rapporteur raises the finger and is aware of this problem. That's sincere praise. I hope that the index finger turns into a fist so that at some point we can change the framework for this. What I think is the problem, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on this, is that it is not just about resource processes. I just have to say that Enhedslisten hasn't said it's all bad. The rapporteur knows that. It's about internship that people get sent out in. Bring the bed to work. We've heard of that story. It is about people who can hardly walk, who are searched for flex jobs of just a few minutes duration. It is about people who are sent internship and into these courses, contrary to medical recommendations that they risk getting worse from it. What is the problem, of course, is that in the vast majority of cases the Ankestyrelsen approves the examples and says that this is the law. So I would ask the rapporteur to state that we need to look at the text of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523161557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523161600	In fact, I do not think we need to do that, because in the municipalities and the municipality where we were out, the municipalities have actually managed to solve the problem of the legislative text that is now in place. Why should a text be changed when some municipalities can actually do so? Why, then, should the other municipalities not just keep up? The law is all right. I've been out seeing that. We saw that when we were over in West Jutland. We actually saw a municipality that did it the right way, and some people who got the right sequence of resources. I guess that's right. Of course we have to change some of these things, because I'm not gonna put up with all the stories that Mr. Finn Sørensen hears about, for example. about the bed with you at work. A few years ago, there was a developmental barrier that wore a diaper and a walker stand, and he had to take a work test. All these stories, nobody likes them. It's not okay. But I don't think it's the law. I think there should be a different procedure out there in the municipalities. Soon the municipalities will have to adjust, because there are some municipalities that can, and as long as there are some municipalities that can with this law in hand, others can.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523161703	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523161705	I believe that the rapporteur will short-circuit the debate a little. The rapporteur speaks of the fact that resources have been looked at. But what we are basically talking about are the reasons on which people are denied early retirement. They are sent out in every possible way against medical recommendations. The Ankestyrelsen has approved many of these, and then there is something wrong with the law, because then the municipalities that are working on these things will say: Well, the Ankestyrelsen says that what we have done is okay. And then, of course, they keep doing it. That is what I would like the rapporteur to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523161747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523161749	I do not think I am going to short-circuit any debate, because I think that was one of the clearest answers I gave today, so it must be the questioner's question that short-circuits the debate. I thought I was pretty ready myself. I just have to say that what this is about is that the municipalities must behave properly. The municipalities must do the right resource sequence, as we just suggested, as it says in the guide, together with the individual for the individual. The individual must feel safe, the individual must be part of the effort, and the individual must feel that he or she is not being overrun. It is not harder, and all the municipalities simply have to understand that. Somebody's doing a really good job. I would very much like to commend those who do well, but those who do not do well must therefore follow suit.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523161832	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523161834	Thank you. I just have to hear the rapporteur: it is quite true that what we were out seeing in West Jutland in Ringkøbing Municipality with resource sequences is not the problem. The problem is, of course, those who Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has also experienced when we have had a hearing. They are the ones who are sent out into resource sequences and who have bed with the turning layer and where you look at whether you can get half an hour's labour out of the individual. These are the ones you have to take out, because they don't feel they have anything to do with it. On the contrary, it is a torment to them. If we could get away from this when a coincidence is obvious, that would be fine. This bill has been tabled, L 145. I do not know how much it makes up for this, but there are initiatives in the municipalities after all. They can give direct early retirement to some. But the question is, how much is it gonna make up for? For what we must avoid is that they are pressed to find out when you can say that you can get an hour's work out of a person by just trying long enough. And no one has an explanation for what an obvious case is. That's what we need to get away from. Because it's not who we saw out in West Jutland that's the problem. That's where the resource sequences work fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523161948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523161949	I mentioned them in West Jutland in order to draw a picture of how resource processes actually work, so that they do not later draw a picture that they do not work at all. That is just what I had to spend my speaking time on, because I will probably hear something else when Enhedslisten gets on the platform. I just wanted to say that it is true that L 145 means that the person with a walker I talked about before will receive an early retirement pension. But we also have to ask, How can we avoid this? Because it has to be the case that the case officers in the municipalities who have these people in front of them and have to assess how sick they are and what they are going to do, and where they are going, are, in fact, those who can assess whether what you are doing is reasonable. Is it fair to send them out with a bed? Is it fair to do these things? There I'm just asking the municipalities out there to look a little more properly at these people and not send them out in these things. Because it's not with the law in their hands that they're sending them out. They can do something other than what they do. But if the questioner from DF disagrees with me, it will be exciting to hear if DF agrees with what Enhedslisten says, namely that the ability to work must be two thirds. Then we have to put some figures on here, but I don't think we can. I think it must be up to the case workers out there to look at the individual people and see how sick they are and decide where they are going. We can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523162103	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523162105	I will deal with that when I come up as rapporteur. But there is the problem that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen also mentions that the municipalities act differently. There are different ways to interpret what an obvious case is. I hope that the guidance that comes will give a clear answer to the municipalities as to when a case is obvious. Now I have not just seen that guidance, but I will see it if the Minister sends it to me at some point. Now we're not part of the conciliation circle. But I hope that it will be the case that there will be the same rules, so that the municipalities can see that this and this is an obvious case, and that, of course, they will not have to send the person into the work test to see if they can find half an hour's work within a week to someone who is going to have his bed with. That's what we need to get away from.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523162149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523162150	I very much agree that some municipalities are doing very badly and some municipalities are doing very well. Funny enough, we can also see that there are some municipalities that go back among those who are not so good. Again, I also just have to look out at the cameras and say to those who know they are not skilled: See, though, to read the guide, and see how to learn from those who are skilled, and then start doing it in the right way, as the whole reform was intended. I think that is actually the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523162216	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. I see no one else wanting to make brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523162233	Thank you, President. These two draft laws, sorry, motions for resolutions would of course have been better for the Enhedslisten, if it had been a legislative proposal, that is what I am aware of. In this respect, we have had a great deal of debate. We have had hearings where people have had to indicate what problems there are with resource processes. This is where no one can explain what an obvious case is. People are sent out to work, even though they are in wheelchairs and are tied to wheelchairs, to see if you can get half an hour's work, and people are sent out with a bed with the turning sheet to see if you can get half an hour's work out of them. This has been a major problem, and that is what we have been fighting to get rid of. There I think the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten are very much in agreement that this is a common problem. We have also tried to get the Minister to realise that there were problems and we have been working on it. I have to say that this is a little difficult, because there is a conciliation circle that must also be satisfied. This is the thing about all parties in the conciliation circle having to agree. Nevertheless, the Minister has made proposals that improve it a little. L 145 can send people on early retirement without having to undergo various work tests. The question is just where the border lies, and that is the guidance the minister says comes out to the municipality. Is there something in it that explains the municipality where the limit lies, when to say: Here is a person, it is an obvious case, that person we should not send out in different tests and resource cycles, because it is an early retirement? Or how far should you go in connection with flex jobs, is it still fair that you have to push to see if you can get the last half hour out of it? Would it not be better to say that we go down to a certain number of hours a week, perhaps five? It could then be met if the individual wants to get a flexible job instead of an early retirement pension and can manage 2 hours a week, but one is not forced to go down that number of hours. This is the kind of thing that I think could be tackled. I hope that guidance can provide something. I have not seen it, but I hope I will soon see what it contains, but it may be that the Minister can at some point explain when it comes out to the municipalities and what it contains. With regard to B 181, I agree with Mr. Finn Sørensen, but I'm just having a little trouble with the two-thirds reduction in work. That is, as far as I remember, what lies more or less in the old early retirement reform, i.e. that you were granted disability allowances, if I remember correctly. I can see that, sir. Finn Sørensen nods, so it's probably something like that. The question is whether the limit should be set at two thirds in order to obtain early retirement without having to go through work tests. But I agree that it must also be the case that the individual can have a desire for flexible jobs rather than early retirement. That is not the problem at all. I have so little more to do with paragraph 5, namely that anyone who has reduced working capacity and receives cash assistance or educational assistance will have the right to require the municipality to ensure that the matter is resumed in order to clarify whether or not they should have offered resources. I have talked to the Minister about the fact that we have to look at some of those who go on sickness benefits, because it is with how long it is reasonable to be allowed to go on sickness benefits before anything happens. If you are permanently ill and go on sickness benefits, you should not be able to go there for more than one year, because then something has to be done, then you have to get to the person concerned and then you have to know that it is now necessary to clarify whether he or she can go back to work or what needs to be done. B 181 we are very positive about because it is very much in line with what the Danish People's Party itself has said. However, I have some problems with these two thirds, but we may be able to clarify this during the committee's work. Then there's that financing with a millionaire tax. If there had been something else, it would have been something else. However, we are ready to look at it, but immediately we have some problems with it. Far along the way, it is in line with what we have said ourselves. The next is the modification of the resource sequence scheme. I myself have advocated resource development. I even think I was one of the first to use the word'sources' for those who were ill, and I myself advocated testing there. Far from it, it is also a good thing, but I have to say no to that, because there is something about sickness benefit inside it, and there we have a settlement on sickness benefit, and that is the last point, namely that the beneficiaries of sickness benefit retain their benefit during the course of the resource cycle. There we have agreed on sickness benefit, so that is what makes it impossible for us to support that point. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is sometimes. We must respect the settlements that have been reached. But I think there are many positive things in this and, as I said, I think we are ready to continue talking about B 181. B 182 I have to say no to precisely because we are bound by a settlement in the field of sickness benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523162840	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523162843	Thank you. Thank you for your positive statements. I understand, then, that the rapporteur has also come to the realization that we need to change the legislation if we are to give the sick people, if I may say so, a more dignified treatment than they are receiving today. And I think it is very positive in itself that the rapporteur makes it so clear. Then I'm sorry about the detail in the goose's eyes that, when you're on resource progress, you have to separate us. The rapporteur is then bound by a conciliation procedure. It's what it is. But what is the rapporteur's position? Is that really fair? As the sequence of resources is linked together, one can risk, I would say, being sentenced to a five-year cycle of resources. I guess it'll be a judgment if they get that long. There you have to live for the rate of cash benefits, with the advantage, of course, that the spouse's income will not be offset. Does the rapporteur really think it is a reasonable income to give seriously ill people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523162949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523162951	One can always discuss whether it is reasonable or unreasonable. What is in the case of sickness benefit is that a solution should be found. The former government, with Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Minister for Employment, had to find a solution so that the period was extended so that you did not lose your money. The proposal that came was to move from sickness benefit to job clearance on a resource-like benefit. That is what corresponds to cash benefits. Because you can't link job clearance courses with resource sequences. It's not the same, even if some people say so. The municipalities also use a bit of the same, but it is not the same course. Resource processes are for some who have gone for a long time, and then they need clarification. However, job clearance is for those who come directly from sickness benefit and cannot receive an extension of sickness benefit. Then you go to a job clearance course and have to have a benefit equivalent to cash benefits that are not dependent on your spouse's income. That is what made it necessary to extend it, and that is why it was reduced. That's where I'm bound by a settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523163103	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523163105	No, it's not quite the same course, but it's the same performance, and it's also called resource sequence performance. And what is the problem with it is that you can of course put citizens in very long periods of time both in terms of resources, but also in terms of job clearance courses on a benefit that is at the level of cash benefits. This may go well for most people for a year, but if it is something that goes on for years, you are down and sniff out something that could be called poverty, because then there is not the economic resilience of such a family to cope with unforeseen costs and perhaps not afford to take a holiday or such things. That is simply what we are saying, that if people are already entitled to sickness benefit, it is also fair that they are allowed to retain them when they are in a process of resource development.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523163155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523163156	Well, with regard to the wishes of the Danish People's Party, it is so that you cannot have it all fulfilled. And in this context, we had to accept this course, which meant that the time period during which you could get sickness benefit would be shorter, and that you would then have to move to job clearance, where you got resource progression benefits. That was the consequence of the negotiations, and we are bound by those negotiations, but I do not entirely agree with it, but we have, of course, accepted it in the negotiations. Those are the rules of the game.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523163234	Thanks to Bent Bøgsted. No more brief comments in this round. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523163244	Thank you. With the motions for resolutions which we are debating today, B 181 and B 182, the Enhedslisten proposes reductions in early retirement and changes in the system of resources. The Enhedslisten therefore proposes a reduction in early retirement, in which, among other things, it proposes a reduction in the rate of retirement pension. It is free to choose between flexible jobs or early retirement if it meets the requirements laid down for this. In addition, a number of amendments are proposed which include: a maximum of one year's duration of resources and that beneficiaries of sickness benefit must be able to retain their sickness benefit throughout the course of the resource. The Left cannot support this. I don't think that's gonna come as a surprise. We are part of a series of settlements and we stand by them. In fact, we believe that the conciliation on the early retirement and flexible job reform was a very good settlement. It has come into force years ago, and the aim was, of course, that we did not want to park people on dependents or park people, even very young people, on early retirement. That's kind of our approach to this discussion. Then it is also important to bear in mind that we also do not want to park people on early retirement • people who have the potential to continue to develop their ability to work. It is important that we stick to them and ensure that they can get back into the labour market and not, I believe, abandon them by parking them on an early retirement pension. The resources will help the individual who needs it and will clarify the extent to which they can carry out a job. In fact, an effort is already being made, and this is what should help to give such a holistic and multidisciplinary approach to the individual. In fact, we have also set aside funds in the pool of rates, of which I agree that Enhedslisten is not a part, so that we can improve the quality of the resources that are being implemented. It is, of course, in order to give citizens even better treatment and to ensure that even more citizens return to the labour market in one form or another. So we do not want to keep a group of people unnecessarily on passive support. Therefore, resource development can be the tool that can help people back into the labour market. The consequence of the motion for a resolution tabled today by Enhedslisten, as I see it, will be very high costs, expenses which Enhedslisten so well points out can be financed by a millionaire tax. That answer has been used a number of times today, so it becomes quite a high tax gradually. We don't want to go down that road. It's definitely not the model. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution, and then I should like to welcome the Conservatives, who, unfortunately, could not be present at the debate on this point either, and say that they cannot support the motion for a resolution either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523163651	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523163653	Thank you. Yeah, that's right. I am not completely astonished by the fact that the Left does not support it, nor will the Left intervene against the millionaires, so that they can also contribute a little. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur to take a little look at reality, because the rapporteur knows all the examples of what this legislation is being used for: that, on the part of the municipalities, people who are sick of death are being forced into practice and in terms of resources and in flex jobs of quite a few minutes per week, even in spite of clear medical recommendations that this should not be done because people are at risk of getting worse. That is not to say that there are no positive examples as well. We agree on that, too, but we have to deal with how legislation is being applied. Then it is just that I am asking whether the rapporteur does not think that this is a problem somewhere. When the Ankestyrelsen approves most of these measures, is that the intention of the law? That's what it's for. Or was there something that had to be written differently?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523163805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523163807	After all, it is not legal for a municipality to require a citizen to go through a process of resource management if the citizen becomes more sick from being in it. It's not legal. It has not been the intention at all. However, we must also note that of the citizens who have been in the process of resource development, around 24 per cent have actually returned to the labour market. It can be in a flex job, it can be in education or in a job • 24 per cent. In fact, compared to the fact that this group is the group of vulnerable citizens who may have been through a long-term illness, I think it is really positive that 24 per cent. In other words, it is on its way back into the labour market, for the alternative had been an early retirement scheme in the past. All we have to say to many early retirement pensioners is that they would like to be part of the working community. It is not always a success to be on an early retirement pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523163919	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523163920	Now, even before that reform was carried out, there has always been the possibility of early retirement partially working. There has also always been the possibility of flexible jobs. There has always been the possibility of rehabilitation and training. So you have to stop making it as if you've invented something completely new that wasn't there before. What I would like the rapporteur to address is the many, many examples we have had of citizens being sent out in these processes, even though they cannot cope with it and in which there is no perspective, because their ability to work is so tiny, so that all the forces they use to perform a few minutes of work make it virtually impossible for them to have any more. What's the perspective in that? Is there not something wrong when in many cases the Ankestyrelsen approves such measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164016	There must be a potential for development. It may be that the first week starts with 1 hour or 11⁄2 hour. But over the months, you can come up and work maybe 10 hours. There are a large number of stories that show that this can be done, even if you start with very, very few hours or perhaps even less minutes of work. I should just like to say that being part of a workplace, having something to stand up to, having some colleagues who, in such a way, expect you to come and carry out a task, is of great value. I think we should stick to that. Then it is important to say that if you get sick from being in a process of resource development, you should not be. That is also what the legislation says. We have to follow up on that. I'd like to acknowledge that. We must, of course, ensure that this legislation is complied with by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164117	Sir. Torsten Gejl for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164120	Thank you. I noticed a pleasant and surprising figure, namely that 24 per cent. of those in resource sequences move on to jobs, permanent jobs, flex jobs, education. I'd like to know how many of these are. Can the rapporteur just take that number apart and say how many of them each?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164150	I can't do that right now. There we need to ask the Minister questions so that we can clarify the division between ordinary jobs, education and flexible jobs. But the conclusion and bottom line is that whether you are in jobs or in education or in flex jobs, you are on your way back to the labour market, and I think that is very positive. That is why I highlighted the total figure of 24 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164217	Well, that's positive too. It's just not a number that I've ever seen. I would, of course, like to hear whether the rapporteur will say where the rapporteur has it from. According to Nordjyske, this suggests that what has come out of 19,000 resource cycles is what corresponds to 130 full-time jobs; that is to say, the flexible jobs that are added together will be 130 full-time jobs. These are completely different figures. So I would like to hear about the source of that figure so that we can enjoy finding it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164248	I think it is just a question of putting the question to the Ministry of Employment, and we will know both the figure: the 24 per cent, but of course also the distribution of how many people have entered ordinary jobs and how many have entered education and flex jobs. Then I fully agree that there has been a special debate in Northern Jutland, where the idea has been that this is not a reform that should strengthen people and bring more people back into the labour market, but rather a reform that should force all people, regardless of illness, into jobs or education, and that has by no means been the intention. I am a little sorry that this has been the angle that has been laid in North Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164333	Thank you very much, sir. Hans Andersen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164342	Thank you so much. So, as the previous rapporteurs have explained, we are dealing here with two motions for resolutions from the Enhedslisten, which aim to ease access to early retirement and to change the system of resource progression. Two of the previous parties, the Social Democrats and the Left, are, like LA, part of the conciliation circle and have actually explained very well why the conciliation circle does not want to vote in favour of these motions for resolutions from the Enhedslisten. I would therefore like to use my speaking time for something a little different, namely to fly up a little in the helicopter and also remind the proposers of why a reform was made and introduced in 2012. The fact is that the development of early retirement and flexible jobs was totally unsustainable. The budgets and the economic conditions for the reform made in 2001 had gone completely. In 2012, almost 10 billion were spent. kr. more on early retirement and flexible jobs than was expected when the reform was carried out in 2001. Overall, over the whole period from 2001 until 2012, more than 60 billion were spent. kr. more to pay early retirement and flexible work benefits than was expected. It was the case that in 2012 had 10%. of those on early retirement, an income beside their early retirement pension of more than DKK 100,000. It was therefore an early retirement scheme in which the intention was that it was intended for people who could not support themselves or had very little chance of ever being able to do so. Then there was a large minority, yes, but a large group of citizens who, in other words, had the income next to their early retirement, which in itself enabled them to support themselves. It was completely and utterly untenable. The situation was of course around 8%. of the population of working age was on early retirement. The diagnosis, which most often triggered an early retirement in 2012, was stress related diagnoses. In other words, permanent public support at a rather high level was given to people who had temporary diagnoses. It was very necessary that we make a reform in 2012. In LA, we believe that we are not ambitious enough. The reform and the expectation of the reform is that in the long term it will increase employment by 15 000. This is to be seen in the light of the fact that, in 2005, a reform of the Swedish early retirement system was carried out in Sweden, where the number of early retirement pensioners was reduced by 180,000 over a seven-year period. We could have done a reform in 2012 which had been both economically more ambitious, but also more ambitious in view of the fact that we could have made a reform that brought more people into contact with the labour market and away from public support. So we have a desire that you still do. So of course we cannot support this motion for a resolution, and I have to say to the Enhedslisten that, given the figures I have just put forward here, it is almost comical that it will also be financed here by the introduction of a millionaire tax. It is in no way connected and cannot be described as anything other than deep, deeply irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164819	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164821	Thank you. I know that the rapporteur thinks it is comical to allow the millionaires to contribute. Just let it go. Can the rapporteur confirm, now that the rapporteur is talking about Sweden, that the reform that was carried out over there has not resulted in more work being done for that group, but that they have simply been transferred to some other benefits, lower benefits? Moreover, this is the same effect that we have of the reform that has been implemented at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164851	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164852	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164859	Then the rapporteur will have to study it a little further, because that is the knowledge that we get when we take a little interest in what has happened in Sweden in that area. I cannot say in concrete terms here what the figures are, because I was not aware that the rapporteur wanted to start this project.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523164918-2	It is, of course, a rather strange discussion to raise in the Chamber when you do not have the figures for it yourself. However, I cannot confirm that the many labour market reforms made in Sweden during the '00s have not increased employment. They have quite distinctly. They strongly contribute to Sweden being much better equipped for the future than we are in Denmark, having much higher economic growth, that the Swedes today have a higher standard of living than the Danes. This is due, among other things, to: the somewhat more ambitious labour market reforms that were made in Sweden through the '00s. We should learn more from this. The pre-retirement and flexible job reform in 2012 was a small step in the right direction, but in our view not a sufficiently large step.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523165011	Thank you very much, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523165021	Thank you. The two motions for resolutions tabled by the Enhedslisten, B 181 and B 182, address the major battle page resulting from the flex-job and pre-time reform. It is about vulnerable and sick people who should get early retirement being pulled through resource cycles and work tests of a duration as low as 21⁄2 hours a week with bed to rest in if the work after a few minutes gets too hard. It is about people at risk and among people at risk being parked on resources and in job tests and thus cash assistance for up to 5 years at a time. It is about the fact that, according to Nordjyske Stiftstidende, 680 million have been spent for the time being. kr. to initiate 19,000 resource cycles, which have led to a number of flex jobs corresponding to 130 full-time jobs. Along the way, 60 people died on resource paths, and 200 slipped out of the system and are now completely unsupported. Now it is fair to say that there are a great many citizens who are happy about their way through resources. Some have come into flex jobs, others have become wiser in the way they are going and how much work they can do, and others have again received treatment or personal development that has brought them forward in life. It must be recognised. However, it is a mystery to the alternative that the parties behind the flex-job and early retirement reform do not reopen the reform and correct the side of the battle, so only those who benefit from the flows of resources will have to participate in it. A full parliamentary year has soon passed, when we have been told that the system must be evaluated before any adjustment can be looked at. In that year, almost every day in the form of unhappy stories from the media in our inboxes or on the social media, we have been reminded of people who have been stranded in work tests of minutes or half hours in companies that they cannot add value because their workforce is too limited. Let me also add that many work tests are carried out with total disrespect for companies that are just stretching their hand out to vulnerable citizens and opening up work tests. The municipality sends a citizen who is so ill that he does not have a chance to contribute to the company's working community. What do companies think when they realise that sometimes it does not seem like a work test, but that it almost sometimes serves as an excuse to park a citizen on a course of resources, even if he should have had an early retirement pension? So they're gonna say yes next time? We must be careful not to abuse the positive attitude of companies to contribute social efforts. In the opinion of the Alternative, company practice is clearly the best form of internship and job training, and it is therefore essential that job testing makes sense for companies and that we respect the companies that provide internship for vulnerable and sick people. These problems have been discussed in the Danish Parliament, at Christiansborg for quite some time now, and the alternative has called the Minister of Employment in consultation on this again on Thursday. Today, Enhedslisten addresses the problems of the called reform by tabling motions for resolutions to relax the conditions for granting early retirement and changing the resource progression scheme. Each proposal has a number of sub-items, and in the alternative, we think that both the intention of the proposals and many of the sub-items represent very good employment policy and good proposals to correct the battle side of the called reform. As far as resource cycles are concerned, for example: limit the time in which a citizen can participate in a process of resource development, so that the citizen does not experience being on unimportant resource paths for 5 or 10 years. A double ceiling is also proposed, so that each resource cycle can only last one year and the individual citizen can only be offered two resource cycles. The motion for a resolution on the reduction of the conditions for granting early retirement provides that the total duration of treatment in the municipality may not exceed a total period of two years, as far as we read the text in the alternative. This seems to us to be a highly qualified bid to stop long-term parking for citizens on endless flows of resources. We also think it is good that resource processes should start as early as possible and that the challenges that each citizen has are dealt with individually and, if necessary, hand-held. It is also important for the citizen to have a greater influence on his own resource cycle and to be able to say no to specific offers that seem completely irrelevant to the citizen. Taking medical statements more seriously in a way that protects sick people from resource progression and job testing is also a good perspective. However, there are also some areas in which, in the alternative, we would like to see some adjustments to the Enhedslisten resolution before we can vote in favour. For example: We do not think that young people aged 18 should be granted early retirement on the basis of medical information alone, which says that they may have only one third of their working capacity. Nor do we believe that a ceiling should be set on the number of cases that each coordinating case officer has. The number of cases per case varies considerably. Caseworker who makes sense, taking into account the complexity of the various cases and the situation in the different municipalities. Therefore, for example, advice is given. Nor do the social workers have a fixed ceiling. In addition, many municipalities are implementing models which limit the number of cases per year. We do not want to introduce legislation when many municipalities are working hard to solve this themselves. Finally, we note that Enhedslisten will remove all sanction rules for recipients of resource sequences, as far as we read the text. You have to correct me if I'm wrong. Now, that is exciting, because here we see a dawning support for the alternative's proposal for cash assistance without counterclaims. We read this point as if citizens in the course of resource development can say no to all offers and processes that the citizen does not consider relevant to the citizen's own development. If this went through, it would mean that we could use all the money we spend to check whether citizens are also participating in the activities and work tests imposed, to give the quality of the offers a huge boost, so that citizens may choose to participate in the offers, even if they are not forced to do so. All in all, the alternative supports the intentions of this proposal, but not the funding. We support the vast majority of the points, and we are ready to negotiate on the last few knots. On the subject of funding, I would say that in the alternative, we do not have a millionaire tax on the shelves of funding opportunities. If we are to finance legislation by taking from the most wealthy Danes, we believe more in taxes, for example. financial transactions, or that we clean up tax havens and get a revenue out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523165652	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. I can see that we can move on to the next rapporteur because there are no brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523165705	Thank you. I think the Minister has examined the fact that far more people today are actually being searched for resource-flow schemes and flexible jobs, and it has to be said that this was also one of the intentions. After all, the changes were intended to allow far more people to be in a process of closer association with the labour market and also to get more targeted, more versatile help to get back into work. So the whole idea of the changes was, and still is, that people should not be parked on, for example. early retirement. However, I also think that both the debate and all the examples that I think we are all familiar with make it quite obvious to everyone that there are both cases and municipalities where things have not worked, as we have wanted with the legislation. It is, of course, entirely in the forest when a terminally ill citizen is sent in resource sequences. But I think the Minister has taken this very seriously. We in the conciliation circle have set in and just done something about this. We have just dealt with legislation that improves the resource flow scheme, sends guidance to municipalities and follows implementation more closely. Again and following on from the other debates that we have had before, I would say that things have not been done by adopting a reform. We must follow the implementation very, very closely, and we will also do so in the Radical Left. In the conciliation circle, too, we are following this very area very closely. It must work better, it must work as intended, the less good municipalities must look to the good municipalities and learn from them. I, like the previous rapporteur, think that there are good intentions in this, but we are not interested in rolling back reforms. We are interested in making them work as intended. They don't do that everywhere, but we have to make them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523165912	Thank you very much to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523165929	The ideas behind resource processes are right, but I must also promise that the law will not be implemented elegantly everywhere. Like everyone else, I am constantly getting a host of inquiries from sick citizens, who are being squeezed by zealous and emotional municipalities, where sick citizens become even more ill. There are even examples of people dying while they are in the process of resource development. It's good that the media uncover some of these horrible stories. For citizens must be treated with respect, and if that does not happen, I would like to make it clear that there is a consistent complaint about the treatment. Because the law is meant to bring people forward, not bend their feet for them. The municipalities should not get away with jumping over where the fence is lowest or stepping on the citizens. Fortunately, however, we also have municipalities where people are actually helped in a fine and dignified way. So it can be done. The SF welcomes some of the initiatives currently under way. That's everything from the 25 million. kr. from the movement pool to the travel team, which is looking at the municipalities where you do well, to the guide to the municipalities, which is to ensure that citizens are properly treated. Then I would also like to say in this debate that I sincerely think it is a pity that Enhedslisten is using so much of his gunpowder in this Chamber. If Enhedslisten were part of the conciliation circle, the party could of course help to get the reform corrected. SF does. We would very much have liked the Enhedslisten to contribute to helping citizens. Together we could stand stronger where decisions are taken, namely in the conciliation circle. Finally, I would like to say that we are very much looking forward to the evaluation of all the resource development initiatives that will come later this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170147	A brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170151	Thank you. I'd like to acknowledge, sir. Karsten Hønge's efforts to relate to the many boring examples we get. So my speech should not now be seen as a criticism or a snare, but it is, of course, the result of the fact that Mr. Karsten Hønge misses Enhedslisten in the conciliation circle. But now we have the view that we are not going into a conciliation circle where the condition is that we should contribute to legislation that affects seriously ill or unemployed citizens. But the question I would like to ask is: what results can Mr. Karsten Hønge then show off in relation to putting an end to all the many boring examples we see on how sick citizens are being treated?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170236	First of all, I would like to say that in a whole lot of municipalities, they are actually able to offer some opportunities, together with some skilled case managers, which were not offered before, and they are trying to look at where people's resources are, instead of looking at where their limitations are, and looking at whether we can jointly create some training courses that can provide some light and some hope and some optimism in people's lives, so that they can actually look at a future labour market in one way or another on the labour market. What we have been presented with has, far along the way, been completely hopeless situations characterised by cynicism out there in some municipalities, where you have no sense of how to meet the citizens in a dignified way. And I can then ask whether we have any reason to believe that it will correct this in some of the municipalities where it is clearly not understood how to treat their citizens, so that they learn from the municipalities where they have actually understood it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170337	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170341	Now, then, before that reform, you could have a comprehensive view of the citizen and help the citizen get on with all sorts of things. After all, there were tools that are still there for the rehabilitation, just to mention something. So we should not make it as if it were not possible to do so before, because it could easily be done. You didn't have to reform to get through those things. What I was asking is what results the rapporteur can refer to in order to stop the way in which municipalities treat sick citizens today. And I am not saying that all citizens are treated in this way, but the rapporteur himself knows all the examples they are pouring into the rapporteur's mailbox. Now that the rapporteur himself has said directly that he lacks the Enhedslisten in the conciliation circle, what are some great results that can be achieved when you have the Left sitting on the other side of the table, who says that nothing needs to be changed and that this is going well?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170437	Well, I don't think things are quite so black and white, either when it comes to when a person is sick or when a person is healthy. There are all kinds of nuances in it. And I also think that there are some nuances in the other parties' approach to this. In other words, I saw a consultation with the Minister for Employment here a week ago, when the Minister clearly sent a signal to the municipalities that they were going to meet the citizens in a dignified and decent way and that they were going to take the citizens from where they were and that it was completely unacceptable with the situations that the Minister was also aware of, where citizens had even become more ill along the way. I have high expectations that both the 25 million. kr. that comes from the rate pool, the travel team and the new guide to the municipalities can clean something out among the worst municipalities, but it is not done with it. And that's why it would have been really nice if Enhedslisten had been part of the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170531	Sir. Torsten Gejl for a short comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170535	Thank you. I could have put this question to several of the other rapporteurs who have been involved in this conciliation. Because when I sit and listen to the debate, I think it sounds a little like trying to wipe the whole problem off the municipalities. I think it is repeatedly highlighted how horrible the municipalities are doing this and how bad they are doing it, and I think they are being demonised a lot compared to this. Is it not the case that the legislation that has been drafted has really opened up to interpretations, too many, many kinds of interpretations? And some people also say it's cash-in-the-box thinking. Is it not the case that when you make legislation that creates such a huge space for interpretations, such as: Does this mean that so many unhappy citizens are being parked in resource stages, even if they should have an early retirement pension, should they consider adjusting the overall legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170635	Nor do I want to say that there is no need to regulate the law, and it is quite possible that that is where we will end up at some point. I just think it would be very early to do so now that we are in the process of evaluating the way the reform works. But if there is a conclusion along the way, there is that it simply cannot be done to make this work better without regulating the law, and that we really cannot get it adjusted in a way that allows citizens to benefit from what it is all intended to do, then it will be SF's proposal in the conciliation circle that it is then possible to change the law. But it can be said that up to now we are on the track where we need to find out whether we can get it addressed in the municipalities within the legislation that exists, provided that we can do so. Then it is also true that there are limits to the degree of detail, because it is not black and white. You could say that when a person is sick, it's sick and that way, and then you have to do it and that. But it is just not that simple, and that is why it is necessary for us to have case officers in the municipalities who meet the citizens completely where they are and who, in each situation, decide individually on it. That's why it's so hard to put up completely square frames about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170743	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170745	[Sound emission]... ran some years, and there are many, many thousands of resource sequences in progress. Does SF have some kind of deadline for when you say you're gonna put your foot down and you're gonna fix this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170756	The questioner gets the most out of waiting to speak until the lights in the microphone are turned on, otherwise it won't appear to those watching television. It's just for another time. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170805	I think we have been seriously challenged by our patience with regard to several of the examples that we have been presented with, in other words, some totally horrible situations in which, in some municipalities, the situation of how to meet your own citizens has so completely lost its sense of urgency. However, we have a number of initiatives under way in this six-month period which will enable us to carry out an evaluation in the autumn, and I will then wait for a final decision on whether this can be done within the framework of the legislation, or an adjustment will be necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170836	Then it is time to thank Mr. Karsten Hønge, and the last rapporteur is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Karsten Hønge. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten, the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523170856	Thank you very much, and thank you for the debate, especially for the positive statements from the Alternative and the Danish People's Party. In fact, it sounds as if it should be possible for our three parties to try to formulate something. So it's the question of whether we can make it in this rebirth. We are due to submit a report on Wednesday, so we can have some trouble with that. But what has been said has been said, and it is also written down, and if we do not have time to do something together this time, then I think we should just continue working on it. Because it will have some value, I believe, that three as different parties as we are nevertheless agree on some basic positions and perhaps even some specific proposals. So I'm very happy about that. I would also like to thank all the other rapporteurs, in which I will at least take note of positive and forward-looking ones, as we are all, in fact, that they all acknowledge, with a slightly different tone, that there are some problems that need to be worked on here. I have also noted that it is being worked on. The question is whether this is enough to correct the disparities in legislation. First of all, I would like to say a few words about how this law works in relation to the stated purpose of getting people into employment. Those were also some questions, as Mr. Torsten Gejl wanted answers to. I have put a question to the Minister about that. It was then a year ago, or a little more no, sorry, it was in the fall. But the numbers are dating further back. This is the period from January 2013 to March 2015, and it says a lot about how this legislation works, because what I asked was: Where do people end up when they have completed a process of resources? What the Minister could say was that barely 42 per cent. will receive an early retirement pension after all that 10%. gets flex jobs that 7.4 percent. They are therefore searched for flexible jobs but cannot find a flexible job, so it is not exactly possible to say that they have returned to the labour market and that it is only 2.7% who are in ordinary employment. This corresponds quite closely to the figures found up in North Jutland. And then there are others who are on different benefits. What's interesting is that 6%. end up on cash benefits, and that 10.8%. end up on self-reliance. That is, they have no support. So, it turns out in itself that this legislation, with the figures we have here, does not live up to all the toast speeches that it should bring people back into the labour market. I have put a rather comprehensive question to the Minister. I hope there will soon be an answer to that. I have asked to know where people actually end up when they are deprived or lose various public services that you get when you are not in the labour market. And I think that would be very good at clarifying what the consequences are of these labour market reforms, including the one we are discussing now. Then I'll look at how the law works in a different way. How does it work in relation to the people who are included in it? I have found some examples that I would actually like to use here because they very well show how that law is screwed up and why it is bad. This is something I have picked from the decisions of principle of the Ankestyrelsen, in this case decision of principle 25-14. It is about a citizen who had an effective working capacity of 40 minutes a week. During the work test he was at work 21⁄4 hours 3 days a week. He could work 10 minutes at a time followed by 10-15 minutes break. His effective working time was 13.3 minutes per day. day. The Ankestyrelsen stated that the citizen's ability to work was currently very limited. Yes, I think it is difficult to explain away that it was also permanently and substantially reduced and that all relevant offers and measures had been tested. Nevertheless, the Ankestyrelsen considered that there was a possibility that the citizen's ability to work could be developed so that the work effort could be increased within a reasonable period of time. And all sorts of things were then pointed out differently, with which I shall not tire out the House here. So the Ankestyrelsen's conclusion was that this citizen met the condition for flexible jobs, and the citizen was refused early retirement. So he got the comfort that you get when you get in flex jobs that after 21⁄2 years and again after 41⁄2 years the municipality can assess whether there is still a chance to develop the ability to work. It shows very well what this law is being used for. Here we have a person in whom one does not need to be an expert in any way in order to say that the ability to work is so tiny that it is only the boundless optimism of the municipality and the Ankestyrelsen on behalf of this citizen that the citizen does not receive an early retirement pension. So point 1 is that this amendment to the law and the introduction of mini-flex jobs should be used as a reason not to give people early retirement, even though they are obviously unable to support themselves through a job. We can take some other examples: a single mother with five children, who are a refugee and torture victim and suffer from ptsd; a schizophrenic man; a man with multiple heart disease, a broken shoulder and constant severe pain; and a woman who after 25 years of drug abuse and prostitution has a blood clot in the leg, whiplash injury, osteoarthritis in the neck and knee, carpal tunnel syndrome in both hands, thought confusion and concentration difficulties. These are cases in which the Ankestyrelsen believes that the municipalities should have refused early retirement. The municipalities have thus been so reckless that they have granted early retirement to such citizens. The Anke Agency believes they shouldn't have done that. This has been tampered with by the practice study carried out by the Ankestyrelsen in May last year, where the general conclusion of the Ankestyrelsen was that in all cases where the municipalities had rejected early retirement, the Ankestyrelsen agreed. But the Ankestyrelsen lifted the index finger to the municipalities and said: Hey, hey, hey, you guys are too fucking nice. I'm sorry, President, you can't say that here. I got there first. But that's the message of the Ankestyrelsen to the municipalities in everyday terms: you've been too nice. And the conclusion was that the municipalities should send people even more into all these work tests, internships, resource programmes and mini-flex jobs of just a few minutes duration. For the whole spirit of this legislation is that it is only if the municipality considers that the citizen has no opportunity to develop his or her ability to work, that he or she can be granted an early retirement pension. That is, of course, the dramatic change that is taking place in the legislation. And there we can see that not only the municipalities, but even more the Ankestyrelsen have boundless optimism on behalf of the citizens in this respect. Let me take another example. It is a relatively fresh example that has been mentioned in Newspaper.dk over several laps here in May, with a citizen suffering from chronic depression and ptsd. He's broken his neck, has a broken hand, a severed arm muscle. He's afraid, and he's got a huge debt. He has statements from psychiatrist, emergency clinic and doctor that if you push him more and send him in several work tests, it can and will trigger suicide attempts. I quote: Attempts at business-oriented actions could involve suicide attempts. This was stated in the papers to the Pension Board in the municipality of Næstved, when it was decided to settle his case on early retirement. So there is a medical body that has assessed it. His psychiatrist estimates that it would be dangerous not to give him a pension and that he is suicidal. But the Pension Board refused early retirement. He must continue to retrain his ability to work before his early retirement proceedings can be dealt with. The municipality defended itself with the fact that the case has been in the Ankestyrelsen because the citizen complained about the treatment he received and the course in which he was sent out. However, in February of this year, the Ankestyrelsen replied: He is in the target group for resource development. I think that these few examples are enough to illustrate that it is the law that is wrong with it. When the Ankestyrelsen approves that the municipalities can abuse people in this way and not only with it, but believe that they should be even harder and send them out even more into all these courses... it's the law that's wrong. I recognise that the parties that made that law had some other intentions, or at least the rapporteurs who sat there. I don't dispute that. I now believe that the text of the law was clear enough. That was why we were some parties against it and that it was strongly warned against by a large number of interest groups, trade unions and all sorts of others. All right, the rapporteurs have had a more positive expectation, but now it must be over with the naïve hopes that things can be done without changing the rules of this law. What tells us this is how it is, of course, that the Ankestyrelsen approves it, because the words of the Ankestyrelsen are law. And if you are not satisfied with the treatment that the Ankestyrelsen says you can give the citizens, then there is only one conclusion, and that is to go in and change the law so that the municipalities are not given the opportunity to do so. Then I think, sir. Torsten Gejl said something very, very important here: it is as if someone is trying to wipe off responsibility on the municipalities. We have heard some rapporteurs say that here. I hope it is reasonably clear that it is not fair to do so, because the municipalities administer the law. According to the Ankestyrelsen, the municipalities generally manage this law according to the intentions of it and according to the letter, and then it is probably not quite fair to blame the municipalities, especially not when one takes into account that the same parties were involved in the Danish People's Party, so that they should not have been drastically changed to the municipalities' finances in this context. After all, this has been done with the conversion of the reimbursement to the municipalities per year. 1 January this year, when it is the case that if a citizen has been on a particular social benefit for more than 12 months, the municipalities themselves have to finance 80%. of the expenditure. That is quite clear, and there is no hiding that it is a huge pressure that you want to put on the municipalities. And what will this lead to? This will lead to what the LO and FTF warns against, namely that the municipalities will feel pressured to get as many citizens as possible onto the lowest possible benefits or leave them completely out of support. And that is why the horrific effects of this reform will be even worse when the reimbursement process begins to go through what it will do in a year's time. And then we don't even have to talk about the priority contribution and the requirement of the blue majority for municipalities to save and spend money on tax cuts and all that. We can memorize that. So I think we have a long way to go, but I would nevertheless like to welcome the fact that there are two other parties that can see that we need to change the law and, after all, I would also like to welcome the fact that it is not the case that our identification of the problems involved in this legislation is simply rejected. Then we have the discussion about what it takes to rectify this, and there one can confidently trust that Enhedslisten will fight further to change the legislation so that the municipalities will not have the opportunity to treat the citizens in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523172143	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no brief comments. There is no one else who wishes to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523172213	The debate is open. The Minister for Employment is the first to be welcomed on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523172242	Thanks for the welcome. Following on from the motions for resolutions B 181 and B 182 which have just been discussed, the Enhedslisten has tabled motions for resolutions No. B 183 and B 184 which call on the government to change the criteria for the new flex-job scheme and for the rehabilitation scheme. During the last resolutions, we discussed in detail the overall intentions of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. That is why I would like to focus more on the flex-job scheme here. The changes to the flex-job rules that came into force on 1 January 2013 had a fundamental objective: to create a more inclusive flex-job scheme so that citizens with very small working capacity can also have their resources in play. That is why we moved away from a system in which, from a political point of view, we set standard requirements for citizens' ability to work and instead gave citizens the right to a concrete and individual assessment of their potential. This is a principle that goes back to the whole reform, whether we are talking about flexible jobs, resource development and early retirement. As a result, it was possible to employ citizens with reduced working capacity of less than 10 hours a week in the mini-flex jobs, and the grant was targeted at citizens with the lowest working capacity. There have recently been a number of speeches in the press about mini-flex jobs, including whether it is a problem that a citizen can work, for example, 5 hours a week cleaning. Let me therefore also say quite clearly: the small flex jobs are reserved for citizens who initially have a much reduced ability to work but who have a realistic development potential. This applies, for example, to Vivi Christensen, who, as Politiken on 29 April, has gone from working 2 to working 20 hours a week in a flex job and who before then was 8 years on unemployment benefit. The example confirms that we are not doing any citizen a service by cutting them off from the possibility of becoming part of the working community. This was precisely the consequence of the flex-job scheme before the reform, which could only accommodate citizens with a residual working capacity of more than one third. For me, it is a horror scenario to imagine that they approx. 16 000 citizens who are currently employed in mini-flex jobs and in this way contribute to the labour market with what they can, should instead be parked on early retirement. This is particularly true when we see that the small flex jobs are mainly of benefit to unskilled workers. It is a group which may find it difficult to regain a foothold in the labour market. Unemployment among flex workers has generally fallen from 25 per cent. on the entry into force of the reform until now 18.6%. But that is precisely what the changes to the flex-job scheme in motion for a resolution B 183 of the Enhedslisten imply. The many small flex jobs and the falling unemployment support the overall objective of the reform, namely that more people should be able to work and support themselves. I think that we as a society can be proud of this and therefore the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled, B 183. If we move on to the second motion for a resolution, B 184, which deals with the rehabilitation scheme, I would say that we are also dealing here with a system aimed at finding the shortest possible way back into the labour market for citizens who are no longer able to do their jobs for physical, mental or social reasons. Rehabilitation may involve both training and a course of business, but in any case it is a requirement that there are no other offers to help the citizen get into employment. This means that rehabilitation opportunities must be seen in the context of the fact that, through the broad labour market reforms of recent years, we have given citizens with complex challenges the opportunity for holistic and multidisciplinary action. These are reforms of early retirement, flexible jobs and sickness benefits, as well as the reform of cash benefits, all of which is based on a radical new approach to citizens on the outskirts of the labour market, including the new inclusive flex-job scheme, which I mentioned earlier. The decline in the use of rehabilitation is also to be seen in the context of an improvement in the opportunities for training provision and other active efforts within the employment system. There are, for example: (ii) to improve the possibility of providing training for cash benefit recipients. At the same time, the scope for financial support in the general SU system has been extended, so for example. Today, single parents receive double SU during education and persons in higher education who have permanent disability may receive supplements to the SU. As far as I am concerned, this does not give cause for concern either when we see that the number of beneficiaries has fallen over the last few years. On the contrary, these are more signs that the other reforms are fully in the process of strengthening the efforts of this target group of citizens in line with their intentions. For the same reason, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled, B 184.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523172905	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523172907	Thank you. I think I'll just ask about the rehabilitation scheme. It is, of course, generally recognized in social sciences that it is a good arrangement and that there is a very good result in relation to people getting to work afterwards because they are trained to target their own conditions. It is therefore regrettable to see that the system is not being used very much. Then I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister have any information on what the effect of the rehabilitation scheme is when compared with the new practical and resource courses, etc.? What's the job effect? Where is the greatest job effect, in the rehabilitation scheme or in some of the other schemes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173002	I simply do not dare to answer that question, but I can inform you. Finn Sørensen says that the development in the area of rehabilitation, which is of course very significant, is a development that I have asked a lot about during the many visits I have been to in various municipalities, and the picture drawn from the municipalities over me corresponds to what I have told you here, namely that it is the experience of the municipalities that when they do not use the rehabilitation scheme more than they do, it is because better offers have been developed for citizens with the reforms of recent years. So somehow the rehabilitation scheme, with the characteristics I get, appears to be a residual which is still needed, but not at all to the same extent as in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173055	This might also be due to the fact that it is more expensive than the other schemes. The benefits are better, and there are additional costs, for the citizen to have some training that is really up-skilling, which cannot be said about the various work tests and internships that sick citizens are being sent out today. So I guess that could be a reason, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173127	I believe that what has, after all, affected employment policy in recent years, among other things. In the tail of the work of the Carsten Koch Committee, attention is paid to the successes of the more targeted effort. Therefore, an effort that is targeted and not as costly as a more general and comprehensive effort need not mean that it is a worse effort for citizens. At least I have no basis for assuming that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173200	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173210	The change in the flex-job system took place at the same time as the early retirement reform, with roughly the same intentions as we have mentioned here most of the day, i.e. if there is an opportunity to get closer to the labour market, it must be tried. As I have also said before, people feel better about being part of the working community if possible, of course. The problem at the time was that if you could not work under 12 hours, you would not get a flex job, and early retirement was almost the only way out, although you might want to work, and even though you might also be able to be a little attached to the labour market and work for a few hours. The reform led by the Social Democratic Government gave the opportunity to create jobs for fewer hours and thus create jobs for many of those who cannot work over the 12 hours. It has got more closer to the labour market, it has got more in flex jobs and fewer unemployed people have come among flex workers, and that can only please us all. There are certainly some things that do not work in this scheme, and of course we must always look at them, which has been my position throughout all these rather great reforms that we have made. And we can't make such major reforms without hitting a little beside it I think that's completely impossible and we have to make a change sometimes. We might as well just admit that. That is why we also need to follow this reform closely and see whether the figures continue to go in the right direction, which I would, of course, very much hope for. Then there is that part about strengthening rehabilitation efforts. I have no doubt that this bet for many is very good. But I also hear that this is one of the most expensive efforts, and I would also like to acknowledge that it may well be the reason why some municipalities opt out of it. It must also be said that this proposal, like all other proposals from the Enhedslisten, does not describe much, let alone anything at all, about the economy, about what it costs. However, we have discussed this before today and have not received an answer to that question either. But as I understand it, the municipalities today can use this scheme if they think it is right to do so. And with the new reimbursement model, where the municipalities get more money, if more people get into employment, it might be the right way to go. In any case, it is important for the municipalities to make the right effort and ensure that the individual gets the effort that gets the individual started as quickly as possible and in the right way, so that in this way they also save some money with the new reimbursement model. And it is for the benefit of everyone that the individual gets closer to the labour market. However, as I said, it is best if the municipality, together with the individual, decides the right effort, as people are very different and must be activated and get into work in many different ways. And that's what you have to figure out together. So because we continue to support the reforms we have made together in a broad majority and that, surprisingly enough, the economy is not described at all, yes, of course, we cannot support the proposal. I would say on behalf of the Radicals, who cannot be here, that they are also opposed to the proposal and agree that the reforms we have made together must be followed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173533	Sir. Finn Sørensen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173537	Thank you. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is aware of the criticisms made by the LO and the FTF in the Tripartite Committee on Flexible Jobs, dated 14 December 2015. There are a lot of criticisms about the way this new flex-job scheme works. I do not have time to list them all now, I am going to elaborate on it a little in my rapporteur's speech, but there is one thing I would like to mention, and that is the issue of restraint-flex jobs, where the trade union movement strongly criticises the fact that the possibility of getting flexible jobs immediately in the company in which you are in has been abolished. This can only be done after 12 months under special conditions. What does the rapporteur say about this criticism in general and in particular about this criticism of restraint-flex jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173637	Now, sir. Finn Sørensen was entertained by Mr. Bent Bøgsted about what it's like to be in a settlement and how to do it. I know it's not one of the things Enhedslisten has tried most. But I've listened to all this criticism, I've talked to a lot of trade unions, and they're pointing to this with restraint motion jobs, and it's not just those who do it, so are many others. It is not because I particularly agree with the conciliation party that I am unsure whether it can be done, but I have listened to this, and that is something I would like to ask, something I would like to examine and say: how serious is this problem and if there is anything we can do about it? I can't promise anything, but I'm gonna go into this part and see how big the problem is and whether it's something that needs to be or can be changed. So yes, I have listened to this, certainly, and that is my answer in relation to that part about retention.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173733	Thank you. But that is a good thing, and I believe the rapporteur will, but what if the Left does not want to? Perhaps we can clarify this a little later in the debate. Then there is a point that was very strongly warned against when the reform was adopted, where it was said that it was quite foolish to abolish the possibility of flexibility jobs. What if the Left says no? So you just want to live with it, and that's too bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173802	What the Left and the Social Democrats and some others have done together is that we have created more flex jobs, we have brought more closer to the labour market, we have made fewer unemployed flex jobs; we have done a great many good things together. The Enhedslisten cannot actually take responsibility for that. The Enhedslisten cannot take responsibility for anything, for Enhedslisten has never been involved. That is why I would just like to say that I have great recognition and respect for those parties that will take responsibility and not just take time to table resolutions that are not funded at all, where time has not even been spent on it. This is something that is being done in a conciliation, and that is why it is good to be involved in conciliation, where you can, together with others, make some good, broad solutions that also stick to a choice, and I am really, really happy with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173845	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523173852	Thank you, President. One of the two motions for resolutions before us here is on the flex-job scheme, and the other is on rehabilitation efforts. With regard to the flex-job scheme, I have a bit of a problem with a lot of it. In relation to the fact that Enhedslisten wants that if you cannot work full-time in your previous field of work, you get the right to a flex job, I would say that there are a lot of people who have been retrained; they have left their jobs because they cannot work full-time, and then they train for something else or start another job. This means that tens of thousands of people who are entitled to a flexible job may be at risk because they are unable to cope with the work they have done up to now, but can easily do another full-time job. I'm having a little trouble with that part. I fully understand the intention that those who have been injured will be taken into account. Because if a bricklayer gets hurt with his arm, he can't really lay bricks. There I know someone who has then taken an education and has come to work in a full-time kindergarten. The fact that you cannot work full-time in the job you have had so far does not mean that you should have a flex job, and that is what Enhedslisten means here, so that you should have the right to a flex job. I don't quite understand that. Then there's this thing about having a working capacity where you can work less than 12 hours a week, and that's again the thing about where the limit goes in relation to flex jobs. There I agree with Enhedslisten that as it is now, there is no limit. There you go all the way down to less than 1 hour and it's too low, but where the limit should be, whether it should be 12 hours or 10 hours or 8 hours or 5 hours, I shouldn't be told. But it should not be as low as it is today. The third point is that, for health reasons, if you can no longer work full-time and can only work at a reduced rate, you will have the right to continue in flex jobs at your previous place of work. Yes, sir. Finn Sørensen at my previous job before I entered the Danish Parliament, it was so that if I couldn't work full time, it was goodbye and thanks they didn't take flex jobs into a production line. You can't work in a flex job there. You just can't. And if the company doesn't have anywhere else they can put in a flex job, then you can't get into flex jobs. But it would be fine if, when you come back, you were allowed to stay in that job if it could be agreed with the employer that you should not leave the company. But it has to be agreed. It should not be the case that it should be a right, because if it is a right, the employer has been put out of business, then you have the right to be there, and then the employer must accept it. I don't think that's it, sir. Finn Sørensen was planning on doing this, but that's what it says. Then there is this: temporary 5-year flex jobs must be abolished. This may be reasonable if you have a good flex job and the employer is satisfied with you, but wouldn't it be possible to extend the period anyway if things are going well in the job? The next is that beneficiaries of unemployment benefit should be available for flex jobs and the rules on sanctions should be abolished. And, of course, recipients must be available if there is a flex-job I don't think anyone on unemployment benefits mind. Of course, if you are assigned a flex job, you have to take it. Then Mr. Finn Sørensen also has that unemployment benefit must be equal for all and equal to the highest rate of unemployment benefit. It is the case today that if you are over 30, you get the highest daily allowance rate, so of course I assume that it is them under 30, sir. Finn Sørensen has eyes on this game. However, as it stands, we cannot support the proposal. Although the Danish People's Party would like to change the flex-job rules about how many hours you should be able to stay there, we cannot support this proposal at least not as it is now. And then there's the same thing about funding in what we've been talking about in the past. With regard to the second proposal on rehabilitation efforts, I also think in principle that rehabilitation is being used far too little. There were many more who could benefit from a rehabilitation and retrained to a different job if you have some problems, if you have a disease and that kind of thing and can't manage on the labour market. However, there is just the point about single parents with no or inoperable training who are entitled to rehabilitation when they have received cash benefits or training aid for at least two years. I really hope that, if you have been on educational aid for two years, you have also started an education. You'd want to be. It is not the intention of education aid that you should be placed and then just have that benefit without having started an education. It doesn't really add up. There's also something about funding this, unfortunately. As it stands, I would like to call on the Minister for Employment to see a little more about how rehabilitation work is working today. I think that if we go through it a little, we can help a great deal outside the labour market to get proper rehabilitation efforts. I hope the Minister listened to me here and the Minister did not. I will repeat it for the Minister if the Minister will listen. This is the rehabilitation thing, and now I'm gonna say it again. I think we should have seen the rehabilitation efforts through, because there are a lot of people who can benefit from helping with rehabilitation efforts. It is not used in the way it was intended in the municipalities. There are far too few people allowed to receive rehabilitation. And you have to look at whether you can't help some more people on rehabilitation rather than all sorts of other measures. I know that this may be one of the expensive schemes, but it is also one of the schemes that really get people going, that is, if they get rehabilitation efforts. So I would urge the Minister to see the rehabilitation efforts through. That is really just what I wanted to say, and I am sorry that I interrupted the Minister in his conversation. But that is the way it is when we have resolutions or legislative proposals to go through. With those words, I must apologize to Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen that Dansk Folkeparti cannot support these proposals. We really think that there is something good in both proposals, but also something that needs to be looked at further. And I would also like to call on the Minister, like to explain L 145, but unfortunately it may not have anything to do with flex jobs. It is probably only resource sequences in the obvious cases. But you might want to see if you could remove this understanding that you go all the way down to less than 1 hour when you send people in flex jobs there might have to be a little more understanding for a higher number of hours, so you can say that it is a certain minimum you have to go for, instead of sending people out for half an hour's flex jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523174654	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523174658	Thank you to the rapporteur for also going into some of the details. I can't answer that now, but I think I just have to correct a misunderstanding. It is, of course, a very literal reading of paragraph 3 of our proposal. It is therefore also a question of this, I think, that the rapporteur himself managed to restore the possibility that was previously, that if you were injured or were otherwise disabled, unable to claim a full-time job at the company where you are, there was a possibility that if you could otherwise be awarded flexible jobs by the municipality, you could continue at that place of work. This possibility has been removed with the reform. You can only do so if you have been employed on special terms for 12 months or after the social chapters. What is meant by this point 3 is to re-establish that possibility. Then I would like to have a little dialogue with the rapporteur on this one with the hourly limit, if I can reach it. The border is set. We need to set a limit, otherwise we will not go beyond the situation we have today. When we have chosen the 12 hours, it is because it was like the rule of thumb in the past, partly because it is reasonable to say that if you have a working capacity that is so small that you can only work 12 hours, you cannot support yourself and your family. You just can't do that in 12 hours of ordinary work. That's why it's set. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's suggestion that we could set the limit if we were not to put it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523174837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523174839	Thank you, President. It's not like that if you work less than 12 hours, you don't get paid. After all, money is paid out from the public sector to the hours you are not at work. The employer pays for the number of hours you are at work and then you get what is it called? At least you get money from the state for the remaining hours, so of course you can live off it if you have less than 12 hours. I have the idea that if you have to look at what it is reasonable to search people for flex jobs, we have to go down no more than five hours a week to a flex job, but it is not the case that you cannot exist, because you can. You get for that number of hours, and then you get residual benefits from the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523174937	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523174940	Now it's all about what you can get searched for. This is, of course, what matters, and the salary you receive depends on the intensity of work that the municipality, like it, considers you can provide, and then the salary is calculated according to it. This means that if you have a low working intensity, you also get a lower hourly wage, plus that it is the case with the scheme that you are set off against in the salary you earn, so that is the question of how princely it is, but the key thing is: what should you be able to force the citizens into? Because that is what the scheme is based on. The rapporteur is a little closer with five hours. Maybe we can discuss something there. It will be interesting what the other rapporteurs say. What is important for the Enhedslisten is that we get a boom for how few hours of flex jobs you can force citizens into.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523175035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523175037	I didn't just get the answer, sir. Finn Sørensen on the first thing about the right to stay in a flex job. That is quite right, as Mr. Finn Sørensen says that this was the opportunity you had before, but it was removed so that you could not stay at work. But we also know with the experience in here that if you take it literally and there is a right, and then the officials interpret it, there is a right to it. So it's a question of how to choose your words. But we are ready to look at the possibility of setting a fixed limit on how many hours you have to go down to in flex jobs, but, as I said, we cannot support the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523175121	Thank you very much, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523175132	Thank you. With these two motions for resolutions, the Enhedslisten calls on the government to change the criteria for the new flex-job scheme and for the rehabilitation scheme. After all, the fundamental objective of the flex-job rules, which came into force on 1 January 2013, is to create a more inclusive flex-job scheme in which citizens with a very small working capacity can have, what can be said, their resources brought into play. This means, of course, that it is possible to employ citizens on reduced working hours, which is less than 10 hours a week, in the mini-flex jobs. The small flex jobs are aimed at citizens who have a reduced ability to work, but where there is still a certain amount of development potential. Today, some 16 000 citizens are employed in mini-flex jobs and contribute to the community we are all part of. It is absolutely crucial for the Left that we continue with this success. Now there are 16 000 citizens who would have been parked in the past on a permanent transfer income which contributes to the working community. We welcome this in the Left. Then Enhedslisten has put forward a proposal for a modified rehabilitation scheme. After all, the aim of the rehabilitation scheme is to find the shortest possible way back to the labour market for citizens who are no longer able to carry out their jobs, and this may be due either to physical or social reasons. The validation could include an education or a course of business and therefore also a requirement that there were no other offers to help the citizen get into employment. In recent years, we have seen that the number of survivors has been decreasing. I believe that this should be seen in the context of other training opportunities and that active employment efforts have been improved. So the long series of reforms, both the mini-flex jobs and the changing use of rehabilitation, means that we now have better employment efforts than we have had in the past, but it also means that we do not believe that we should go on board the Enhedslisten resolution. We believe that this will make things worse. Against this background, the Left cannot support the resolutions mentioned, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they cannot support the motions for resolutions either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523175429	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523175433	I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what training opportunities are there in the other schemes that match the opportunities offered by the rehabilitation scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523175445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523175446	In other words, you can take a job or an education that is eligible for SU. Then the Enhedslisten's rapporteur will now use his speaking time to say that there is not an equal basis for remuneration. That is true, but there are many people in this country who, for a period of their lives, have had to live on what you can get when you are in an educational system where you are entitled to SU. In fact, it also offers some opportunities for SU loans etc. But it is true that it is not training on unemployment benefits. That is absolutely right. However, we have gone into this with open eyes and have said that if the municipalities can find other measures that will enable people to return to the labour market or in education, then it is not necessarily necessary to make use of the rehabilitation scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523175534	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523175537	Thank you for that and thank you for saving me some speaking time. The rapporteur has guessed quite rightly. But then it is not right to say that the other offers are just as good. I guess this isn't an offer to a family man on what are we going to say, 45 years, who are going to have an accident at work. But there is an opportunity for him to be retrained if he gets an upskilling education, for example. so that he can enter and perform a job in the large and growing hole that is with the lack of skilled labour. That would be very good and a good investment for society. But I guess it's not an offer to such a family man to support his family and have half-sized children, etc., to say to him: you go straight down to SU. That is what is so good about the rehabilitation scheme, so I guess it is not fair to say that the other offers are just as good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523175633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523175635	But there is, in fact, the possibility of using some of the schemes we have agreed with the employment reform. In other words, if you are unskilled and want to be trained, it is actually possible to take an education when you are on unemployment benefit. So that is actually another alternative to rehabilitation, and I think that is a good thing. Then I just do not think that Enhedslisten relates to the fact that we have achieved a success that I do not think has been mentioned enough: 16,000 people have now come out and become part of the working community, although not with a lot of hours, but they each contribute. I welcome the fact that reforms have actually been successful, which means that we have increased the number of people who are now contributing, rather than continuing to park people on early retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523175726	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, the alternative. Nonsense, sorry, Liberal Alliance. It was almost the worst thing that could happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523175741	It's okay, Mr. President. We are discussing the last two motions for resolutions tabled by the We cannot support these motions for resolutions. It is not an expression of our view that the flex-job scheme is perfect or that we cannot find examples of citizens whom we think should have had better treatment. You can do that. However, this is a relatively new reform which is still being phased in. In our view, the resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten is moving in the wrong direction. As we read the motions for resolutions, it will increase the number of people on early retirement, thereby increasing the number of citizens in Denmark who are moving further away from the labour market. As I have mentioned in the previous motions for resolutions, we in LA believe that the exact opposite is needed. In other words, further reforms are needed to get people away from transfer income and into the labour market. That is why we cannot support these motions for resolutions. The Flex-job scheme is also quite attractive after the recent reform. As far as I remember, a person on the flex job scheme with 5 hours of work a week who gets DKK 150,000. In terms of salary, according to the support given in the flexjob scheme, an income of about DKr 20,000. a month. So it is quite a good income, which is also slightly above the level you have when working on ordinary terms in a low-wage job. So with the in mind that the conciliation circle is constantly assessing the system and developments in it and also making minor adjustments, we cannot support the resolutions tabled here. And I would also like to say, because I have done so many times, as has LA, that our intention in this way is to continue to make reforms that bring people closer to the labour market, including the arrangements that we are talking about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523180031	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. This time it was right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523180054	Thank you, President. You're forgiven from here, too. Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution B 183 and B 184 is about improving both the flex-job scheme and the rehabilitation effort. These are a number of points which lead to a change in flex jobs and rehabilitation. In the alternative, we believe that these changes are necessary. The proposals seek to remedy some of the major deterioration in the flex-job scheme that occurred during the early retirement and flex-job reform from 2012-13. We think that there were a great many good elements in the area of flex jobs and early retirement before a number of deteriorations were made in 2012-13 and, in this context, the budget was lightened for a few billion kroner. It has to be said that many of the major challenges we see in the area of early retirement and flexible jobs are directly linked to the fact that one has chosen to save so much on the opportunities of vulnerable and poor Danes. In the context of the flex-job scheme, the alternative is that the proposal will make it possible to continue directly at flex-jobs at your present place of work if you become ill and need to continue in flex-jobs. It was changed in 2012-13, so companies first have to hire an employee who has become ill, under social chapters and special conditions for 1 year before flex jobs can be discussed, and I think that has cost a lot of people their flex jobs. After all, I am an employer myself, and I can imagine that the moment an employee gets so sick, it is just to make sure that he or she gets into a permanent arrangement and so on in a good flex job. In my opinion, this was a really big mistake, which has meant that an employee often loses his job if he becomes ill. It may have been introduced because some companies cheated on the scheme, or what I know, or used it as a kind of part-time scheme. Here we have introduced what I, with the permission of the President, call an evil in hindsight policy. That's when you make life hard and difficult for a lot of people, because there may be a few who cheat. We support the proposal to ensure that people who become ill can get a flex job at their own place of work, and we also welcome the fact that job centres will be more involved in helping citizens find flex jobs. And in relation to the proposal for a strengthening of rehabilitation efforts, I would say that it benefits the possibility of rehabilitation for young people with disabilities, people with chronic illness, single parents and many others exposed to support, retraining and the possibility of reintegration into the labour market. All in all, the alternative supports the motion for a resolution without, however, wishing to stamp the millionaire tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523180328	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523180343	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that we would have liked it to be the number of rapporteurs from the various parties present to decide matters here in the Danish Parliament, because then we would have achieved something with our persistence, and then the alternative and Enhedslisten could have quickly applauded that cake. I'm afraid it's not like that. But thank you for the debate anyway, including for those who have left. Well, they're still here? That's good. Well, then the majority goes for a ride, I see. That's too bad. But thank you for the debate. It can be noted again that the parties responsible for the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, even when we are talking flex jobs, recognise that it may not be quite as it should be all. There are negative examples, but then it stops. But at least thanks to the alternative and also the Danish People's Party, who can see some good tactics in what we have put forward here. With regard to flexible jobs, I would like to relate a little to the success criteria. The conciliation parties and the minister seem to have only a success criterion, and that is to look at the figures, that the number of early retirement workers is decreasing and that the number of flexible jobs is increasing, but is honest enough to admit that this increase is primarily due to the introduction of the mini-flex job scheme. To these fine figures, I hope they are a success. Enhedslisten will only be pleased about this. But we do not really know anything about how these people feel. We know that we can see from the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen and everything else that the municipalities have forced people, we don't know exactly how much, into these flex jobs of just a few minutes and a few hours' duration, and what are the consequences for the lives and health of these people? What do we really know about this? I guess it was worth examining before you say that we have a huge success now. Then perhaps you should dig a little bit into what the background is for the violent rise. This is a fact, and Enhedslisten helped to say that, having done such a bad reform, we should do something to help these mini-flex jobs, and therefore the previous government and Enhedslisten made a bonus scheme that has now been phased out. And there it could be a little interesting among other things. to see how much impact it has had on the increase in the number of flex jobs, and what happens now that the bonus scheme has been phased out. I guess you have to check that out before you say this is a huge success. However, regardless of what the examples I mentioned earlier, and even more, if you want to read the Ankestyrelsen's studies also of the flex-job scheme, show that it is very much used as an argument for not granting early retirement, even though we are dealing with citizens who have a minimal ability to work and again with the same argument as in the process of resource development that if the municipality considers that they can develop their ability to work, they just have to leave in such a flex-job, no matter how many costs it actually has for individual people. So this whole thing about how it's a great success, I'd like to nuance. In any case, it needs to be examined further, and we must then ask a few questions about that. Then I would like to refer to the criticism made by the LO and the FTF in the Tripartite Committee on the subject of flexible jobs. I can't read it all out, but it's an accessible document, I guess. Otherwise, we'll have to ask for it. It is dated 14 December 2015. The LO and the FTF put their finger on many of the sore points of this scheme. Around the mini-flex jobs, for example, they write.: The problem is that the employer may have a desire to keep the number of hours worked artificially down to save money, because it is the case that the employer only has to pay for the number of hours worked by the flex job. So you might ask: what is wrong with that now? In principle, nothing, except that it does result in excessive discrimination in the workplace, but the problem is that the intensity of work is something the municipality determines, and if the employer can now employ a flex job of 7, 8, 9 hours, while in reality he has a working capacity of 12, 15 hours, then the employer has a considerable gain, because it is the municipality that sets the work intensity. The LO and FTF point out that the employer has an interest in keeping the number of hours worked for the flex job as low as possible. The municipalities have an interest in getting flex jobs in jobs and therefore give a large rubber band in relation to the employer. That is why, according to the ILO and the FTF, this is often the case, and they are based on reports from the local trade unions that the number of hours worked by the flex job actually does not correspond to the working capacity of the flex worker. So I guess it's also a relationship we need to look at, because then the mini-flex job scheme doesn't serve what it has to do, because then you won't help those who can actually work only a few hours. Then perhaps it is about the fact that it is really being taken over, if you may say so, by flex workers who have a higher ability to work. It was also something that was strongly warned against when this scheme was introduced at the time. It's something we have to dig out more so we can see how it's connected. But in any case, the issue of restraint flexible jobs is another important criticism from the LO. After all, we do not have to go so far to find out, because we have obtained figures from the Minister showing that the number of restraint-flex jobs has fallen quite drastically. And it is clear when you introduce such a blocking rule as you have done here. There are several other points in the trade union movement's criticism of this, among others. The question of the defenceless position in which the flex-jober finds himself, because the trade unions were excluded from the possibility of negotiating on behalf of the flex-job. This was explicitly stated in the draft law; the trade unions' previous negotiating rights have been removed. And that is an extremely negative thing, because we have very vulnerable citizens to do. So I think that is relevant objections. I certainly hope that the parties behind the reform will look at the criticisms that lie here and that we will have a more realistic assessment of the benefits of this scheme, rather than just seeing that so many thousands have gone into mini-flex jobs. As far as our proposal is concerned, I have already commented on some of the points during the exchanges, including why it is necessary to set a limit of 12 hours, where we say that if you do not have an ability to work beyond that, then it must be voluntary whether you should be forced into a flex job. We think that is a reasonable limit, but we are also open to discussing with other parties, for example. The Danish People's Party, whether we can set a different limit, which may not quite satisfy it, but which can at least become a tool against what we see many examples of, namely that the municipalities are forcing people into these flex jobs, even though they are not really able to cope with them. I have argued in favour of the one with flexible restraint jobs, and I believe that a great deal of the conciliation circle will be reached over that too. I hope, then, and we will continue to press for it to be possible, at some point, to convince the conciliation parties to change the system on that point. As far as the rehabilitation scheme is concerned, it is a pity to see that a system which all professionals agree is very good is being used less and less. And it is quite right, as some rapporteurs have pointed out, that it is the result of the introduction of some other arrangements to be used before starting to do so. And it is clear that then it will live up to its purpose, but the question is whether it makes sense when you actually had a system that is generally agreed to work well. I've been trying to figure out if I could find any studies on what the effect of this rehabilitation scheme is, and there's really no new thing. One has to go back to 2002, when the Social Research Institute carried out a study, and it suggests that it is true what I am saying, because it shows that two years after people had completed rehabilitation, six out of ten were in ordinary jobs and another in ordinary education. See, that was good results. The LO has then also tried to investigate it, and it is then a recent study from 2009, it is not quite so positive, but shows that one year after the rehabilitation was completed, it is more than 40%. of the former beneficiaries entered employment. And that again suggests at least a far, far higher job effect of this scheme than of e.g. the resource cycle scheme, where the job effect was less than 3%. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for a long and good day when we have discussed the consequences of these reforms. I believe that all the rapporteurs are aware that the debate is not over. If I am to make a general comment, it is, in my opinion, particularly to the Socialists, the SF and partly also the Danish People's Party, because we have been told on several occasions that we are involved in a conciliation, and although there is something positive in what Enhedslisten is proposing, we cannot support it because we are in a conciliation. I am well aware of the rules of the game, and the same will apply to the Enhedslisten in the conciliation we are involved in. Then, of course, you have to respect the conciliation or you have to take the consequence of terminating the conciliation and saying that in a parliamentary election we are fighting for a majority for something else. We're free to go. That's fair enough. That's how it works. I just think it is worrying that when we look at schemes that concern the safety of employees when they become unemployed and ill, because this is the same problem we have with the unemployment benefit reform and the pre-retirement reform, we see that there is a large majority in this Parliament that has tied each other up with schemes that clearly have negative consequences for the safety of employees, which, in the view of the Enhedslisten, has been seriously undermined throughout the long series of reforms of early retirement, unemployment benefit, etc. It's a boring consequence. There are only two solutions to this. One is that there are conciliation parties that are manning up and saying: this is simply not acceptable, this is the time for us to change that legislation and take the fight to a parliamentary election, and the other is that the voters put together the Folketing in a different way. Otherwise, we will live for years with reforms that have a very clear and clear overall effect, which I am quite sure the Minister's figures will document when I see the answers. This means that what is happening with all these reforms is not that more people are going to work as a result of them, but it is that there is a change, so that there is a reduction in the benefits-level schemes and more in the cash benefits-level schemes and that the group of people is growing completely out of support. This is a trend we can already see when we look at the individual reforms, and I am very excited to see what the overall picture will be when the Minister answers my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523181652	There are a few questions, and the first is from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523181657	I would say that when Enhedslisten's rapporteur stood on the platform and thought that Enhedslisten was going to control everything, we came flying, because everyone in here knows that if Enhedslisten is going to control it all, it will not go well. So we came flying. Today we have had a lot of good talk about content and good intentions. We have had a very exciting debate, and I would also like to thank you for that. But Enhedslisten has said before that you do not want to talk about economics, that you only want to talk about content, and I also have to say that the economy is also content. Well, if you can't afford anything, you can't get anything either. That's the way it is everywhere. I also heard Enhedslisten say that there was a minor problem with funding and the economy: we will just take that when it comes. Yes, but will you get some things started and then just take the economy later? Because you have to find out if you can afford it. Now we have been through all these 5-6 proposals, and there has not been a single word about what it will cost, and there I just have to ask: is there enough money and what will all this cost? So there has to be some picture of that. The Enhedslisten must really be able to answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523181804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523181805	Now I am not going to guess, because it needs to be clarified quite specifically how many, if any, will be covered by the arrangements we are proposing. However, I can assure the rapporteur that there is plenty of advice when you look at how many tax reliefs have been granted to the 10%. The richest in this country and for the millionaires. And we can easily find other sources of funding, so I do not think the rapporteur should worry about that. It is only a question of political will and what kind of a thread one has in one's policy, who one thinks should pay, and whether one considers it right to give priority to tax relief to the best paid and best-off part of the population. These are tax reliefs which have been provided, among other things. through the reforms we are talking about here, for example. expected savings on the early retirement and flexible job reform of 1.9 billion. kr., savings on the cash benefits reform on, I think it was 31⁄2 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523181917	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523181919	Well, let's imagine that Mr. And Mrs. Denmark is out there. Then the teenage daughter comes and says, Dad, I want it, and I want it. The father says, "You'll get everything that's enough money." That's what Enhedslisten says here: you get everything that's plenty of money; as long as it's good and as long as it's fine, there's plenty of money. Listen, sir. And Mrs. Denmark cannot organize their household according to this single list thinking. No one can, nor can one build a country on a single list of ideas. You have to take responsibility for the economy, and if you are going to have some benefits, you also have to have control of the economy. It just won't work, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523181955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523181956	Now I think the Socialist rapporteur should stop talking about it and try to turn the debate somewhere else than where it belongs. The Enhedslisten has clearly stated who has to pay for these improvements. And if an isolated millionaire tax is not enough, we have other proposals that are just as socially correct to propose as the millionaire tax. It won't be a problem when you look at what a ten per cent relief it will be. The richest part of the Danish population has been given over the last 15 years, and when you look at how inequality grows in this society, while at the same time, overall, we become more prosperous. The money is just placed in the wrong places. So if we distribute all the wealth we have, there will also be money for security for employees, both when they get unemployed and when they get sick.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182052	Sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182054	Thank you. I would have more respect for these motions for resolutions if they included funding that could bring together more than one party, because it is only Enhedslisten who is left talking about a millionaire tax, at least today. But I have to ask you something quite different, because now Mr. Finn Sørensen mentioned it here with restraint flexible jobs several times, and then I just have to ask whether it is not true that the 12-month requirement does not apply if there is a reduced ability to work as a result of an emergency accident or illness and it is apparently pointless to carry out the employment for 12 months under special conditions. That was one question. You can just say yes or no to that. Then I just want to ask whether it may be right that Enhedslisten will, in such a way, prevent people from going into flex jobs of 1, 2 or 3 hours which in the long term might be 10 or 20 hours • with their suggestions here today. For Enhedslisten keeps talking about that you can't get into flex jobs if it's under 10 or 12 hours, because then it's pointless. There are many people who have started with 1 or 2 hours where it has become 15 or 20 hours. And they have now become part of a working community. The alternative was an early retirement pension. But I understand that is Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182217	I can confirm that exceptions can be made to the requirement of 12 months. And then I do not really know what the rapporteur of the Left wants with it, because that does not change the fact that there are plenty of people who have been rejected in this regard and that the number of restraint-flex jobs has decreased. I think the rapporteur agrees with that without being able to shake the figure out of my head. But I think the rapporteur agrees with that. So I don't really know what to do with it. Then I do not know where the rapporteur has read that Enhedslisten will prevent people from getting flex jobs for a few hours or minutes. What this is all about is that it has to be voluntary. So I do not know where the rapporteur gets it from.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182257	Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182259	It has therefore been a debate which has been about the idea of King of Enhedslisten, that if you had a working capacity where you could only have 10 or less hours, then you should at least have an early retirement pension. Here we have people today who start at 1 or 2 hours a week and eventually achieve 10 or 20 hours. Those are amazing stories, and we should talk about them more. All day today, the Enhedslisten has talked about one accident after another in the labour market and that it is all terrible. I would just like to say that I welcome the fact that there are still parties left in the Folketing who dare to take responsibility for the fact that we are getting more people into the working community. The Enhedslisten obviously does not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182349	I think that the story that the rapporteur of the Left tells us about is a very good story to the extent that it happens. And there is nothing in Enhedslisten's proposal that prevents such sunbeam stories.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182403	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182407	We may be able to clarify, through questions in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, what the total cost of these motions for resolutions we have discussed today will be. My guess, and that is a guess, is that it is a considerable amount of billions, only the proposals in the area of early retirement. If we take into account what the previous reform meant by additional expenditure compared with what was planned, we were at least up to an amount of 10 billion. kr., so it's not small amounts. I think it is irresponsible to table resolutions in the billions without giving any realistic funding. That is not the political point. You are free to think what you want politically, but it is difficult to take seriously a party that makes such a large-scale resolution without indicating any kind of funding. As other rapporteurs have said, the world is not so connected. - Sir... Finn Sørensen does not elaborate or at least explain what Mr. In fact, Finn Sørensen's position is that we should table resolutions of this nature without giving any funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182531	I am sure that if Enhedslisten had plunged himself into some guesswork about what it would cost, and we had then said that the rich in Denmark would pay X billions, then the Liberal Alliance rapporteur would think that it was just as irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182547	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182548	Yes, it is deeply irresponsible to award funding for a new millionaire tax, because if you ask the economists we are educating in the country's universities if there is money in the Treasury by raising the marginal tax in Denmark, then they say no. Then I know that in the Enhedslisten one is of the opinion that one is wiser than the economists we train in the country's universities. The citizens will then have to make up their minds if they think, sir. Finn Sørensen and the colleagues in Enhedslisten are really smarter than university-educated economists. I personally don't think so. One might almost say that of all the sources of funding that could have been proposed, a new millionaire tax is almost the most irresponsible. So what else is there that you can get to grips with?
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182642	Well, if the money isn't enough, there is, for example. the sources of funding proposed by the Alternative. We'd like to negotiate them. They also turn the right end up when we talk about the social profile. We can go in and look at the property tax. There are plenty of options. And if it offends so many, one might also consider the wisdom of throwing billions of dollars at new fighter planes, but that would also offend Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. So it won't be a problem to get these proposals funded. There is already much, much more money than we can spend on these relatively modest proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182722	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160523182736	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Tuesday, 24 May 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
