ParlaMint-DK_20160204100020	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 60 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the application of beliefs and legislative declarations in the re-allocation of aids and disabled cars under sections 112 and 114 of the Services Act). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100056	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100116	Today we are abolishing a maternity compensation scheme for self-employed workers who did not function as intended. All the selfemployed were forced to contribute to a maternity fund regardless of the income of the company. Even small self-employed people with income of just a few thousand kroner were charged contributions. Having said that, we in the Danish People's Party continue to believe that it is necessary to find a system that benefits self-employed women and entrepreneurs. As we have also mentioned in the report, it is the position of the Danish People's Party that the solution should be found and preferably across the relevant ministries. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we have also called on the government to do so in the report, and we are doing so here today too, to work for a scheme for the benefit of self-employed women and entrepreneurs. In the Danish People's Party we also hope that the Minister will take the time to take the floor today and say something about what the Minister is going to do, because we need to find a solution, and I hope that this has also been realised in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100237	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are just a few questions. The first one with one is sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100245	Now the Danish People's Party is helping the government roll back this law. I have also read the report's contribution, and I think that what the Danish People's Party writes about it may well be that they help roll it back, but that they think there is a lack of initiatives in this area is quite fine. The rapporteur for the Danish People's Party then concludes by calling on the government, I understand, to call for negotiations so that other initiatives can be put in place that can solve the same problem or otherwise create better maternity conditions for entrepreneurs and also better conditions for women entrepreneurs. So far, the invitation from the Danish People's Party has also been there during the first reading and it has also been there from the Social Democratic Party and many other parties. It doesn't seem that the government is responding to these calls. Is the Danish People's Party willing to do more than just encourage the government to call for negotiations, or what will the Danish People's Party do if the government, as it looks, is just going to ignore it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100340	Yes, the rapporteur has just whispered to me that it is a little difficult to hear anything up here when there is small talk in the Chamber, so I think we should take this very much into account so that we can certainly hear what is being said here from the platform. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100357	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. What we are doing today, of course, is also calling on the government to take the floor and put the cards on the table, because what are they going to do? I also hope that the Ministry has seen that there is a large majority in the Folketing who actually want us to find a new arrangement for self-employed women and entrepreneurs, which today has a very great challenge in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100428	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100429	We have a government that works something, what can be said, unimpressed by it when the Folketing calls on the government to do something. We also have a government which has just ignored a parliamentary resolution adopted by a majority of the Folketing, which instructed the government to pay out the money for development aid which the government was obliged to pay out. So we have a government in which there is sometimes a need for a little tougher means than just a friendly request from a support party. What is Dansk Folkeparti's timetable and timetable for when you are ready to put the clamp on the government's thumb?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100507	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100510	Now it's the case that sir... Rasmus Horn Langhoff thus represents the part of the Assembly Hall which is against the government. That is why I am not surprised that Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff has little confidence in the present government. But we have it in the Danish People's Party. I also think that we should give the government a chance to take the floor today and express its opinion on this matter: should something happen or should nothing happen? We also acknowledge in the Danish People's Party that this is a rather complex area, and this is probably not a solution to it with a snap, but in the Danish People's Party we believe that it should be
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100550	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100552	That is a little in line with the previous question. Let us not turn this into a question of who supports which government and so on. I think it is very good that the Danish People's Party is marking that they want something to happen. If we could only get a clear answer from the Danish People's Party today, that if the government sits still and says, well, well, never mind what the self-employed should not have a maternity scheme, then the Danish People's Party, together with the rest of us, the majority who actually want it here, will be prepared to take some independent steps in the form of, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100637	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100640	Sir. Pelle Dragsted asks what you will do in relation to the government, whether you will collect an alternative majority if the government does not listen. I hope that we are not out to reach where it is that the government does not listen to a majority in the Folketing, because, as I have also read the report, today there is a large majority in the Folketing who actually want us to find a new arrangement. So I hope the government can sense the smell that's in the bakery right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100712	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100715	I fully share that hope. But sometimes a hint or a friendly pat on the shoulder is better than a hope, so I would actually just like to ask you to answer the question, if possible, whether the Danish People's Party, if the government does not do anything before, let us say, for example. on this side of the summer holiday, will be prepared to use the majority that exists in the Folketing to force the government to take initiatives in this area so that we do not have to remain in the situation that self-employed people do not have basic rights in the field of maternity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100753	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100755	Well in the Danish People's Party we are here at Christiansborg, we are elected by a fairly significant group of voters in Danish society, and we will of course do everything we can to get our opinions through. It is clear that there are a number of democratic opportunities here in the Danish Parliament, and we will of course try every opportunity so that in this case we can come up with a proper maternity regime also for self-employed women.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100824	Thank you. Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100828	Well, this is getting a little funny, because it's typical of the Danish People's Party. They vote in favour of the government's proposal, but then they want something else, you can see in the report's contribution. We've heard that before. Well, I just need to hear more about it. DF will encourage, encourage, encourage, and they will talk to their good friends in the government. So now the rapporteur has to say quite specifically what the Danish People's Party will do. Because many of the voters out there have voted for the Danish People's Party, and I think they deserve an answer. What are you going to do besides call on the government and then actually just follow the government in thick and thin?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100902	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204100904	As I have just mentioned to someone else here in the Folketing, it is the case that, of course, we will always take advantage of the democratic opportunities that exist in the Folketing. But now it is also the case that we are a support party for the current government, and of course the current government also has an obligation, I think, to look at the majority in this Parliament. And as I also read from the report, there is a majority in the Danish People's Party here in the Danish Parliament, with the majority in favour of a new system for these self-employed women, and this is an arrangement that we believe should be found. So, of course, we have also called for the government to initiate some kind of work so that we can find solutions to this. But it is also a complex area, and we recognise that. That is why it may take time, but the fact is that it is important for a job to be done, which is why we are also calling on the government to take the necessary initiatives to find solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101005	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101007	Okay, so I quite simply ask: what are the democratic options that the DF wants to take advantage of?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101015	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101017	Now Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is well aware of the democratic opportunities that exist in this Parliament, but I can mention that, in addition to the fact that, as a support party for the current government, we can, of course, have a dialogue with the minister or the government in question, there is also the possibility of putting together a few majorities in this Parliament outside the government, as Mr Leif Lahn Jensen knows. Leif Lahn Jensen too. That possibility also lies there. But it is quite normal procedure in this Parliament that these opportunities are available.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101048	Then it is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101051	Thank you. I find it very interesting that the rapporteur says that there is an opportunity to put together a majority outside the government. Does this mean that if the government is now not responsive, the rapporteur would like to agree to a majority bypassing the government in order to obtain a maternity fund for self-employed people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101112	The rapporteur, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101114	Thank you to Mrs Yildiz Akdogan. We in the Danish People's Party will always try to seek influence so that we can get through the positions we have, and we will of course do so, regardless of the majority we then achieve, just as long as we achieve exactly the 90 mandates needed to get our positions through. In some cases we succeed, and in other cases we fail, but we will always do everything we can and use our democratic and parliamentary rights here in the Folketing to obtain a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101147	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101149	Thank you. So I hear the rapporteur say that the rapporteur will not only enter into dialogue with the government or just call on it to find a solution, but will also be willing to join with other parties who want a concrete solution to this proposal. The rapporteur would like to agree to this. Then I just need to know quite clearly whether it is a yes to the rapporteur being willing to agree to a majority bypassing the government in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101217	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101218	Now I also think we should give the government a chance. So, I have now called on the Minister of Employment to come up here on the platform, and I hope the Minister will take advantage of this and say something about what the ministry wants. Having said that, however, it is clear that we want our positions, our priorities implemented, and we will always seek influence where we have some good opportunities. But I hope that the government can smell the smell in the bakery when it comes to where the political majority really is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101256	Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101300	Thank you. I think it is a remarkable situation that we are in and I would like to acknowledge this to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that the parliamentary basis goes on the floor and speaks against the government's decision and thus gives a promise to the overall opposition that all women who are in business, who are entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs, can have maternity rights. Therefore, allow me to try to reach a conclusion: if the Danish People's Party does not succeed in getting the government to make an edible solution that actually gives the rights we are talking about here, then it is the same as stating that the Danish People's Party cannot keep its promise and does not stand by its statements that come here today and that I consider to be exceptionally important. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that, if it does not succeed, it is the same as the fact that the Danish People's Party has abandoned its declarations here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101357	The rapporteur, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101400	One should know us from the Danish People's Party rather badly if one did not know that we are quite good at sticking to what we mean. That is one of the things we are very concerned about and are fighting for. So this is by no means, regardless of what is happening today, an abandonment of the fact that we need to find a solution for self-employed women who today do not have as good a system as others do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101429	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101431	Thank you for your answer. I would also like to conclude from this that the Danish People's Party will press for it to be within this year, so that we do not have to wait very long to find a solution. I hope that can be confirmed here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101444	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101445	Well in the Danish People's Party we think it is quite important that there are proper conditions for women entrepreneurs, but also for business women, so we will of course do everything we can to ensure that a solution is found as soon as possible. At the same time, however, we in the Danish People's Party understand that this is a rather complex area, and we have also seen that if anything is to be done at all, one has to look at it across a broad spectrum, in several ministries. And that is why it is not certain that exactly a solution will come in 3-4 months, but at least we in the Danish People's Party will try to push for a solution as soon as possible. But I certainly hope that the government will come up here with its representative, who is the Minister for Employment, and explain what the government is actually going to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101535	Thank you. And you can take photos from the gallery, you just can't use a flash. It disturbs too much. Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101546	Now, of course, this should not develop into such a Clement-like questioning of the poor rapporteur, but anyway: the rapporteur could help it a little along the way by giving some answers. Will the Danish People's Party either table or support a motion for a resolution to correct the inequality for self-employed people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101603	Since I do not know the so-called motion for a resolution, which Mr. Karsten Hønge refers to, and I have not read it, it is clear that I cannot make a statement about it today. That depends entirely on the text.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101616	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101618	Perhaps it is too much to demand that one could imagine that the Danish People's Party itself tabled a resolution which corrected that inequality. So will the Danish People's Party itself either table or support a motion for a resolution which, in its framework, obliges the government to present a bill to correct that inequality? We've seen the government take the Danish People's Party by the nose before. So far, many calls have been made by the Danish People's Party in this process, and this has led to nothing but a rejection. So what would be different today? So, if you cannot find your own way of making the proposal, will you support one that the rest of us are putting forward, and what should be different today with regard to those who pious desires and sweet thoughts you have about the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101655	You don't address directly. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101657	If there is something that we are quite good at in the Danish People's Party, it is certainly to get members of parliament working. I'm one of them myself. I regret that there are some who have been exposed to quite a few of my resolutions over the years if anyone has thought it was annoying. But if there is something we are good at, it is certainly to make use of our opportunities here in the Folketing, whether it is a question debate, a motion for a resolution, yes, even a legislative proposal we can put forward, it does not have to be the government. But in this case, we would like first of all to encourage the government to take the initiative and tell up here from the Parliament's platform what it is you are going to do if you are going to do something. If nothing else, then we in the Danish People's Party will have to find other opportunities to form part of a political majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101744	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101748	Thank you. I'd like to follow up. I think it is a sad situation that we find ourselves in when the Danish People's Party agrees that we should abolish these rules which favour entrepreneurs and self-employed women. I also hear that the Danish People's Party says that it wants to continue working on this. So my specific question is this: will the Danish People's Party, if the government does not put forward a new bill as soon as possible during this period, table an independent motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101820	Here you go to the rapporteur, Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101822	I would just like to repeat something I have said, and that is that the present system in relation to maternity compensation is not appropriate, because even small self-employed people, who may earn a few thousand kroner a year, are also being charged contributions to this maternity fund, and that is not appropriate. But we believe that there should be a new arrangement, which is why we have also called on the government both in the report, but also here in the Parliament's Chair to come up here and tell us what to do if you want to do something. However, I very much believe that a chance should be given to the government before further action is taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101905	Mrs. Josephine Fock, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101907	Well, as the rapporteur himself says, the rapporteur's party is of course a parliamentary basis, and that is why the rapporteur's party has a certain power. Therefore, I would like to ask what DF will do to push here if the government does not follow up on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101926	You can ask many hypothetical questions: what, in case, and what, in case. I must honestly admit that I would like to quote a former Prime Minister: I am not answering hypothetical questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101943	Thank you to the rapporteur, and that will be the end of the day. Then it's mr. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204101955	Thank you, President. Of course, the Socialists are very sorry to see that this maternity fund has been set up in particular, which, of course, combines the possibility of having both a business and a family. Of course, we are also very, very pleased that in the contribution to the report we can see that there is a large majority and that the Danish People's Party has even been up on the platform and indicated that they are ready to use that majority against the government if we do not find a solution. That is also why, of course, we can say to the Minister that it must be soon that we have to get a draft from the Minister. It must be soon that we will have a solution, because this has been going on for so many years. In 2005, the Minister for Finance said that a solution had to be found and, of course, it would also suit a Left Government that it would come up with a solution instead of simply abolishing the fund. The Danish People's Party, together with the red side of the House, has a majority, and of course I hope they will use that, and of course I also hope that DF will come, because we are ready to negotiate you are welcome, you say so. We will find a solution and, of course, we also hope that the government will want to join it. Finally, I would like to say that I look forward to hearing what the Minister has to say here at the end when he goes to the platform to explain what the timetable might be. Because, as I said, a solution should be found as soon as possible and, as Mrs Marianne Jelved said, it would be happy to do before the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204102129	Thank you, sir. Kasper Roug. There are no comments. However, I would like to say once again that efforts must be made to keep the Rules of Procedure and not to speak directly to each other in here. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204102152	Thank you. With this bill, we are repealing the law on maternity compensation for self-employed workers. We do this because, unfortunately, the scheme did not turn out to work as intended and only there is no doubt, and there must be no doubt that the conditions for independent entrepreneurs, for entrepreneurs, including young entrepreneurs, are something very dear to the government. This government wants growth, we want growth throughout Denmark, and that is why, of course, we want to give as good a framework as possible, including to the people we are talking about now. And since it turned out that the regime decided under the previous government collapsed, we have looked at a number of options to target the scheme, but we have not been able to find a solution in the short time available to help the families we are talking about into a situation where they are covered by a compulsory maternity compensation scheme. Is it that complicated? Nah, it's actually not complicated to set up a maternity compensation scheme. A lot of maternity funds have been made in the labour market by the professions themselves, and it is of course also an opportunity for the self-employed to make their own maternity compensation scheme. What is complicated is to find out who has to pay the insurance bill. The previous government chose to extend a compulsory scheme so that it came to include well over a few hundred thousand or more precisely 240,000, and when the scheme then came into force, it turned out that there were huge numbers of people who said: Never in life, it is quite absurd that we should be part of such a scheme, because we can never enjoy it, and we are not single self-employed. That is why we had to shut down the system. We have considered whether the system is capable of narrowing down so that we can have a compulsory system for self-employed people, which only covers those who are single self-employed. You can, but as the system is narrowed down, the bill increases proportionately. And is that what we want? Is it mandatory to say to a relatively limited group of self-employed people: you must have an insurance scheme among yourselves, whether you like it or not, with a huge bill throughout your life? If they want to do so, they can do so voluntarily and pay that insurance bill. Then there have been other proposals along the way in the process. There have been proposals that the self-employed were linked to Barsel.dk, but it has been examined by the previous government and rejected. Why? Of course it is possible, but then it is the employees who have to pay the maternity compensation bill for the self-employed, and is that what the Folketing wants? At any rate, I do not want this as a compulsory system, i.e. to make transfers from one population to another population, which, moreover, has nothing to do with each other. There remains the third solution, and it is whether it is the taxpayers who have to pay. I'll leave that open. But I respectfully say that we have noted that it is not only the government that has the conditions of the self-employed in mind, because that is what the Danish People's Party has in mind. The Danish People's Party has made some comments in the report, asking that the government focus on the framework conditions for self-employed entrepreneurs, including young entrepreneurs, and it is indeed work that we as such have already initiated and taken the initiative on, and we have made contact with entrepreneurs to get a good and real picture of what challenges they are experiencing and what they are calling for in relation to us. Therefore, I can promise the Danish People's Party that we will carry out an interdisciplinary work aimed at creating better framework conditions for entrepreneurs and self-employed people. This is what we generally work for from the government's side, i.e. growth and growth throughout Denmark, and this requires workable framework conditions for independent entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204102632	Thank you, Minister. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204102642	I think even the government can see the writing on the wall of this case. At any rate, I think that a majority in the Folketing has spoken very clearly and signalled very clearly to the government that it may well be that the law is being rolled back today, but that some initiatives are expected to solve the problems that the law should have solved. Because when you roll back the law, the problems remain unsolved. In other words, we need to create not only better framework conditions for entrepreneurship, but also better conditions for you as self-employed workers to have better opportunities than today to combine active working life with active family life. That is also what is being demanded from the Danish People's Party and from a large number of parties in the report to this bill. So I would like to hear from the Minister: when will negotiations be convened so that we can talk about how we can repair this law or come up with initiatives for similar legislation or come up with quite other initiatives that can solve these challenges and that can strengthen entrepreneurship? Is there a date?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204102752	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204102754	No, there's no date. As I have indicated, we have actually taken this seriously, and during the period that has passed since it became necessary to shut down the existing system, we have looked, as I outlined in my speech, at whether there could be other arrangements, that is, schemes that taxpayers have to pay, schemes that employees have to pay, or compulsory schemes with a huge bill that the self-employed themselves have to pay. There are none of the schemes we have found attractive. Now we are considering what we are able to do in relation to the self-employed and the entrepreneurs, and I have no date for when government presentations will come to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204102835	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204102837	Can the Minister guarantee that we will be called upon to hold these negotiations, which the Danish People's Party and a large majority in the Danish Parliament are calling for?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204102847	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204102849	No, I am not giving any guarantees here, either on dates or on specific negotiations, because at this stage we do not have any clarity as to what initiatives we ourselves will be able to point out in relation to this area. What I generally say to the self-employed and the entrepreneurs is that their conditions are very dear to the government. This is something that we will take very seriously in the context of our other growth work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204102920	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204102925	Thank you. It is good to hear the Minister say that it is not very complicated to set up a maternity fund, so it gets better and better, one might say. Now, of course, we are just waiting again for the Minister to call at some point. Of course, I think it is a little too bad that he does not want to give any guarantee. But the Minister must be a little nervous when there is a very, very large majority in favour of finding a solution. And then we're just hearing the same rhetoric from the minister that we've been hearing all along. Well, it doesn't work anymore, sir. Minister. Apparently, some sort of solution needs to be found. So what does the Minister intend to do from here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103004	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103006	I intend to continue serious reflection on how we can improve the framework conditions with regard to entrepreneurs and self-employed people. And I'm not nervous at all. Because there are some who have burned their fingers by setting up a scheme that was by no means capable. I have outlined the alternatives, and is that what a potential majority would want to do again? At least I don't want to go into that field.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103028	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103030	Oh, it looks like the Minister is closing his eyes to the reality in here. Of course, we look forward very much to the Danish People's Party coming and, of course, both the Minister and also the others pricking us on the shoulder. I just hope that the Minister will not keep closing his eyes, because it looks as if the Minister is in danger of being a minority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103055	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103057	I have no further comment to make on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103100	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103105	I am also somewhat of the opinion that the Minister does not really read the writing on the wall. We are getting such a bit of a song from the hot countries that one is very concerned about the framework conditions of entrepreneurs and self-employed people, but the Minister cleverly avoids saying anything about including specifically the establishment of a maternity scheme for self-employed people. So can we not get a very clear answer? Will this theme be included in the discussions that the Minister says you should have with business, with entrepreneurs this spring, and is it the intention to conclude, on this side of the summer break, or can we even have a time? Well, is that part of those plans, and does the government have anything? Or are you just trying to say that you want to do something different about some other framework conditions? Will the government deliver on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103201	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103204	There are no restrictions on the considerations we will make and the talks we will have with representatives of entrepreneurs and self-employed people. However, I would like to say once again that you yourself, on the part of the Enhedslisten, have helped to create, together with the previous government, a system after careful consideration which collapsed when it was put into effect. And I've outlined the possibilities. Who do you think should pay if you just go and make a new arrangement? You have to think very carefully about what kind of clue you want to make if it is, or when it is, you want to improve the conditions for entrepreneurs, including young entrepreneurs. There is the possibility that they can set up maternity funds themselves, as they have done in all other professions, and it must of course be open, but if you talk about compulsory schemes, I have outlined the alternatives. Then it is either a huge bill that employees have to pay or that taxpayers have to pay. That is the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103304	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103307	Right now there are some individuals who have a huge bill because there are not these solutions, but I think the Minister forgets to mention that. But I think we have to conclude that what we have heard from the Danish People's Party, and I would like to sign for that, has been a very, very clear statement, which says that if the government does not listen, if the government has not understood the writing on the wall, and I actually think there is much to suggest that it does not have an alternative majority of those parties in the Folketing who will do something about it here. And I think that is positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103337	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103339	I completely share Mr. Pelle Dragsted's irritation or concern that there are some individuals who are now faced with broken expectations because the previous government established a scheme with so many forced payers that the scheme collapsed on the same day it was established.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103355	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103400	Thank you. The Minister believes that the regime of the previous government was not good enough, and the Minister also mentions that entrepreneurs and self-employed women are important to the government because it creates growth. However, when a government is so focused on entrepreneurs and growth, I am a little surprised that there is no timetable at all for resolving this very, very important problem. So when you think the area is important, does the Minister not think that it is a declaration of failure that at the same time you do not have a clear timetable?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103428	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103431	No, I do not think so, because what we are dealing with now is the necessary closure of a maternity compensation scheme that has collapsed. What lies in our plans is seriously working to ensure that these professions, in the same way as the other growth industries, can have the most optimal framework conditions in Denmark, also good framework conditions for young families, and there is no end date for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103458	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103500	Thank you. The Minister constantly uses the word growth and also criticises the previous government without really having a clear plan for what he is going to do, so that more women entrepreneurs and self-employed people can both have a business, but at the same time also be able to make the family relationship into a higher unit. And that is why I am quite surprised that the Minister then says that no, he does not find it strange that you do not have a timetable. How can a Minister for Employment, who is so focused on growth and who also thinks equality is important, not have a timetable for solving this specific problem? Seems pretty weird. Does the Minister not find it strange that one does not have any suggestion as to when there might be a solution on the part of the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103545	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103546	What is the specific problem that should be solved? What we are working on is to improve the framework conditions for these professions too, for entrepreneurs, including young entrepreneurs, and that is continuous work. But if you come back and talk about forced solutions, that is, compulsory savings or compulsory maternity arrangements, then I have outlined what the alternatives are. We do not cut off any considerations, but the reality is that if there are to be genuine maternity compensation schemes for self-employed people, they are within the framework I have outlined.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103627	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103631	In other words, we have to recognise that there are some major problems in the system that has been so far. It is obvious that many people are challenged and provoked by the fact that even lecturers who receive a smaller fee have been required to pay for a scheme. We might as well acknowledge that the system that had been set up had some obvious weaknesses. But the question is whether, due to the fact that there is a hole in the boat, you should let the whole ship go to the bottom or whether you should try to repair it. That is why I think we need to hear at least the aim of the government. Is the government's aim to establish some kind of compensation system, even if all the details are not in place today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103711	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103713	We are prepared to explore all the possibilities, but as I have outlined, if you talk about maternity compensation funds for self-employed people, I can only see the possibility as a voluntary scheme, either established by the self-employed themselves or as a voluntary scheme linked to Barsel.dk. If we are talking about the compulsory schemes that have been tried, it is not, in my view, a technical option to do so without other completely outsiders being paid for the leave of the self-employed in addition to the maternity benefits which taxpayers finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103754	Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103755	Well, I hear that as if the government did not want to take an initiative to put in place a compulsory compensation scheme. And then there is only one way back, because if the government does not want to take an initiative, I understand that they would rather have a majority in the Folketing force the government through negotiations to find a settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103817	I have said that all options are part of our thinking, but I have also outlined where I think there are some deadlines. And after the previous government itself has tried, it is too easy simply to return and say that such a compulsory system must be found. So I ask, who should pay? Is it compulsory to pay a huge bill, as we have just tried, with thousands of protests? Is it the employees who have to pay the ransom for the self-employed, or is it the taxpayers? That's what there are no other payment groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103848	Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103851	I do not want to ask you anything, but I would just like to thank the Danish People's Party for being sensitive to what we in the Danish People's Party have written in the report, but also to what we have said from the platform today. It is gratifying to hear that the Minister intends to initiate in-service work in this area, because there is a need to look at it widely. So I would like to make it clear that we have seen that the Minister has responded.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103923	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103925	I would also like to acknowledge this, because I fully agree that a number of people have been put in a very unfortunate situation because of the failed regime that was established under the previous government and which we now have to shut down abruptly. We are left with an unresolved problem. The task is to find out how to find a viable way to create orderly conditions in this area, and we will take that work very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204103954	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104000	Thank you. It's a good thing we're having this debate. If we are to be a little optimistic, we are also moving a tiny bit in relation to the very square rejections we have received in the course of the discussion of this bill. Nevertheless, I can have some doubts as to how much openness there really is in what the Minister says, because on the one hand they say that you will look at all the possibilities, and then we are told in the next sentence that no, you will not. Now, let's get this done right and get everything checked out. There I would like to refer to an excellent answer we have received to a question to the Minister about what it would look like to join the self-employed to Barsel.dk. It would result, if I remember it rather precisely, in the self-employed having to pay 700 kroner. I think that was the only problem I could immediately see in it. Then there's probably a lot of technical problems. But why reject such a solution in advance? It doesn't sound like an insurmountable task when you look at the fact that parts of the self-employed thought it was a good idea to have such a scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104104	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104107	As I have already mentioned, it is an opportunity to consider whether the self-employed should have access to voluntary membership of Barsel.dk, which is a large scheme covering a great many employees in Denmark. However, this requires a technical solution, and I believe that we need to be able to ensure that it is not the employees who have to pay the cost of maternity for the self-employed. Then it must be the case that those who voluntarily join this scheme are able to pay the bill themselves. But that will be one of the considerations we want to take into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104143	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104145	Thank you. It sounds very nice to say that it just has to be voluntary. First of all, a question of principle can be asked: why should it be voluntary for the self-employed, but not for employees? That's where the company has to pay up. That is the first question. Secondly, if you insist that it should be voluntary, you run the risk that it will be so poor that it is not economically linked. So it is just as the Minister pretends to be positive, and then he puts up some obstacles that make it impossible to do so anyway. I would just like to call on the Minister: please show some openness, let us now turn all the stones in it and now call on all the parties of the Folketing to have a proper discussion and debate and hopefully also an agreement on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104232	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104234	When employee schemes are compulsory, it is to ensure that employers do not discriminate against women by employing men. The reasons for discrimination are as follows: definition not in self-employed enterprises. The person who owns the company has the gender that the person concerned now has, and that is why it is quite different considerations when considering maternity funds for self-employed persons. And when we do not want to create a new compulsory system with too much money to make it stick together, it is to avoid getting into a situation in which the previous government came into being by establishing a system that is artificially extended to a lot of people who do not think they belong in the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104314	Thank you. So far, the last sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104319	Thank you. After all, we heard that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party stood on the platform and said that she would actually use a majority against the government in this matter. We also heard her say that she wanted to use some other democratic options that were available and that we did not just understand what was. When the rapporteur then asked herself a question which was not a question, she was much more friendly.I have a lot, very difficult to find out where DF is but it can be very difficult for the government with a DF as a support party. It seems that the Minister does not intend to call other parties for an interview, but if the Minister does not intend to call DF Otherwise this could be very serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104403	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104405	As the author knows, we talk to all parties when it is appropriate to talk to the parties. Whoever you're going to talk to in the process of developing this, time will show.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104420	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104423	So what I can just conclude is that DF again gets nothing out of what they mean. They are just standing up on the platform and calling and calling, and then they just support the government in thick and thin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104435	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104438	No, what the government promises keeps the government. And, as I have said, we have very much in mind the conditions of the self-employed, the conditions of the entrepreneurs. We want Denmark to grow everywhere in Denmark. That is why we want to do what can be done to ensure that entrepreneurship families have the best possible framework conditions, including young entrepreneurship families.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104504	Thank you, Minister. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104512	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104603	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104617	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. in favour of 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104700	The debate is open. It's sir. Male Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104714	Thank you for the floor. The Social Democrats support the bill, which should be seen in the context of previous law on the right of consumers to have a basic deposit account on fair terms. The draft law guarantees consumers access to a basic payment account. The bill makes it easier for consumers to compare the different providers of payment accounts, making it easier to change financial institutions. It must be assumed that it will also contribute to greater competition in this type of banking business. The law will require consumers, when concluding payment account agreements, to be provided with a document describing all the charges involved in the payment account. The Socialists want to follow the Consumer Council Think of proposals which oblige the financial institution to hand over this document for the first time, a consumer addresses himself and expresses the wish to create a payment account. We also want clarification that it must be free of charge to obtain the fee statement, cf. Article 5, par. 1 of the text of the Directive. Furthermore, we want there to be a ceiling on what it must cost consumers to have a basic payment account. We find it natural that the ceiling is the same 15 kroner. a month fixed for basic deposit accounts. However, as I said, I can tell you that the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104833	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204104848	After all, the draft law that we are going to deal with here is a draft law which is a little in line with a previous draft law that has been put forward here in the Danish Parliament. This is what was called L 154, which was dealt with back in 2015 about the right to a basic deposit account. It was a bill that Dansk Folkeparti was not in favour of. We also voted against because it was, as it were, that you had to pay 15 kroner. a month in order to be entitled to a basic deposit account. That meant that there was a fixed fee of 180 DKK. a year in order to have a deposit account. What then comes with this bill is that you also have to have a basic payment account where there is not a statutory fee structure, but where it is up to the individual bank to find out what it has to take and what it will take for the service in question. The Minister's comments on L 103 also state here that the basic payment account must be offered either free of charge or against what is termed a reasonable fee. And then I'll be allowed to be a little critical of what you estimate is a reasonable fee. If you ask in the banks what a reasonable fee is, it may not be the same as what consumers would call a reasonable charge for a service. After all, the bill here says that the banks must calculate this new fee on the basis of three parameters, including the costs of the financial institutions, as well as what is termed a reasonable profit. I am not sure that what is called a reasonable profit in the banking sector is what consumers call a reasonable profit. We in the Danish People's Party are a little concerned about whether this will be a fee screw. It will be a place where banks have the opportunity to scratch in additional fees with Danish consumers and people who have an account. We also think in the Danish People's Party that it is a bit of a provocation when we have created a statutory Easy Account both for private Danish households and for even the smallest micro-enterprises, and when everyone else also has to have a Easy Account. That is something we have adopted there should be a law on. Afterwards, we are trying to sell these two legislative proposals, L 103 and L 154 from the last session, as a right, that is to say as a good, as something which is, like, given for purely consumer reasons. We do not think that there is much right in it. We think that people are being charged with an expense, and then we are talking about a false trade name. I would like to say that to the Minister for Industry. It's a fake sales description when you claim that this is something you get such a well-acquired right to. No, you get a new fee... congratulations on that. This is not something we can support in the Danish People's Party. We think this is a schism; we think it is wrong. We are also well aware that this is in line with the European Parliament, where we have had to implement the Council directive on the comparability of fees and so on. But we still believe that this is an attack on instead of a right for Danish consumers. At least we think that the Minister should go in to take a critical look at the fact that there is no definite ceiling on the fee. That is also what we are discussing, among other things. in the Consumer Council's hearing Imagine, in which it is also said whether it was not reasonable for there to be a ceiling on what this fee could be. Now that we have a ceiling of 15 kroner. a month, 180 kroner. In the case of a basic deposit account, which we adopted last year, the ceiling could not, for example, be applied. be that this payment account was, of course, included without further charge? It's the same account we're talking about. Whether it is a deposit account or a payment account, I do not think there will be many who will choose to say: I think I take two different accounts; I take one that I can use for payments, and one that I can put money into. I think most people will probably pick one account for everything. So this is just bad. L 154 is, as I said, a previous draft law on the basic deposit account, which we voted against. If you look at what has been called L 154 earlier, we actually had an L 154 in the previous parliamentary term; it was a legislative proposal on the legal position of piracy. It has little to do with this, I would like to admit, but it is a form of abuse of people. It's kind of a robbery, when with this law we give these new fee options to the Danish banks. So we say nicely and politely no to the directive, of course, but certainly also to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204105355	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204105406	It makes very good sense when there is transparency in the market. This is important for consumers, so that you have full insight into what things cost and so that you can use your purchasing power, where you now think it is smartest and best for yourself. So it helps to ensure competition when there is transparency, and that is what is the whole purpose of the legislative proposal here, or at least a central part of it. Because I think most people are used to looking at interest rates when looking at where it's most attractive to take a loan. There are lots of portals where you can compare different types of loans. Maybe it's a little bit more on the fee page. It's something that comes in a little along the back way. And it has to be said that, as a customer or consumer, it does not matter at the end of the day whether you pay your costs to a financial institution or credit intermediary via interest or through fees. It ends up having to be paid out of the same back pocket anyway. Therefore, it is quite reasonable that there is now some more focus on what you pay as a consumer in terms of fees, both in relation to an annual fee statement and when you create an account, namely that you are told what it is that you can expect different services to cost in fees, so you know it in advance. It creates clarity, and it makes really good sense. It also makes very good sense that there is a little bit more control over what rules apply when you want to move your customer engagement in a financial institution to a competing financial institution • also if you want to make it another EU country • that you now clarify exactly how it should be done, so that you as a consumer do not get stuck in a vacuum, and so that it does not take too long. Then, of course, there is the element of a basic payment account. As others have said, it is in line with the proposal that has been made in the past that you are entitled to a basic deposit account. It can of course be said that it is a little special and I have to say that my approach is probably slightly different from that of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to say that it is an abuse against consumers. We are giving consumers a right to have an account, a right which they do not have today, where you can refuse to take in a customer as a financial institution. The bank can continue to do so if it is someone who behaves to the detriment of other customers or the staff of the financial institution, but you are given a right. I think somewhere, it makes sense that if you now have the opportunity not only to have a deposit account but also a payment account, it is not something that is free, nor for those who offer it. And therefore, as in deposit accounts, there is a possibility that a payment may be charged for this. That must, of course, be fair and it is then defined in the directive, as has also been explained. However, I have to say that, in my view, it is therefore a positive right that we give to consumers, that we now have the certainty that we have access to a payment account so that we can have our payment service handled and that we can make every possible use of the digital opportunities that we have as a customer in our financial institution. So it seems to me that we are giving citizens a better right, better opportunities, and not a new fee screw. Perhaps for some, the alternative would be that such an account could not be obtained at all. So basically, on the part of the Left, we think that this is a quite sensible proposal, which creates a bit more transparency and clarity and gives consumers better rights. It should encourage competition, and there is always good reason for this, because that means that, as consumers, we can get away with a little less when competition is strengthened. So this is a quite sensible legislative proposal, which we of course support from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204105806	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204105815	In the Enhedslisten, we are basically positive about this bill. It is a pity that this kind of good ideas will only be implemented when they come from the European Union, but nevertheless we see it as positive steps in relation to the rights of banking customers and citizens. Firstly, it is positive that the legislative proposal seeks to increase the transparency of consumers in relation to the, unfortunately, many rather incalculable charges that the banks are raining on us. We would like to see more stringent measures being taken so that consumers were already provided with information on the fees they received and not, as the draft law says, at the same time as an agreement on payment accounts is concluded. We also really welcome the fact that this 12-day limit is set for how long it must take to move an account from one bank to another. We are not very good at this in Denmark, and there are a number of calculations that show that if we were a little better at seeking banks that had lower fees and lower interest rates, the Danes would be able to save billions of kroner. It is therefore money that would smoke from the banks' pockets and into ordinary Danes' pockets, and that is a very good idea. Another positive content of this bill is what has been discussed most from up here: the right to a basic payment account, which is also given the right to all Danes to a basic payment account, even those who, with a perhaps rather strange wording, are not called attractive customers for the banks, are given the right to a basic payment account. I think that is absolutely necessary, because I think we all know very well that we can no longer function in society without having this type of account. So, there are so many things going on that way, and therefore it is crucial that private banks have now left the banking business in Denmark to private banks cannot exclude anyone from having an account. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that all citizens should have the right to a charge-free account, simply because, like anything else, it is a necessity for us to be able to act as a citizen of a society at all. That is why we really believe that this should not be a business but a right. And, of course, we are not satisfied with this wording that banks can charge a reasonable fee. In other words, there is far too much rubber in it, and I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on what a reasonable fee is. We would very much like a clear ceiling to be set. It could be the 15 kroner. the month applicable in relation to the deposit account. I think it is interesting if I hear correctly; now, of course, we have to hear the other rapporteurs, including from the opposition, that it sounds as if there should be an opportunity to have a majority in the Folketing, which will table an amendment to this bill which will ensure such a ceiling. At least that's how I hear the Danish People's Party. They will, they say, vote against the draft law, but there is nothing to prevent before you vote against the draft law from adopting an amendment which at least takes it in the right direction, i.e. by putting this ceiling above it. I would certainly find it hard to understand if the Danish People's Party does not want to. So with those words, I will end. As I said, I think there are positive tactics in this proposal, and I hope we can get these corners fixed through a majority with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204110154	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204110211	The previous rapporteurs have examined the content of the draft law and I would like to stress that this is not a legislative proposal, we are extremely excited about it, so that it is said to some companies that they are therefore also informed by the Minister for Industry that a precondition for us to be able to support this bill was, at least, that the banks can, of course, have their expenses covered when we require them in here to offer consumers a specific account. This was accepted by the Minister for Industry, and it is a little difficult for us to vote 'no' when we are satisfied with a specific wish we have had in connection with this bill. So we are actually going to vote 'yes', but it is on the clear assumption that the banks can actually recover their expenses. As I recall the hearings, it was the sector's own expectation that the total cost would amount to up to 80 million. kr. That is what was expected, and that is quite a large amount of money. It is, after all, a cost which must be covered in one way or another, and so we think it is reasonable that the cost should be covered in relation to the actual cost of offering a payment. But, as I said, it is not a bill that has in any way grown in our gardens. This whole thing about giving people rights like that, we don't really like it. It must be the case that there is a market that determines what is needed and, when there is a need, the market will also deliver on it. But, as I said, a slightly lukewarm yes from here, provided that the sector can therefore recover the costs that we are imposing on it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204110428	There is one question from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204110433	Of course, I am well aware of the basic positions of the Liberal Alliance on society and the economy, in other words, that companies must have before everything else and that we, as citizens, should then have no special rights. But specifically, as far as this proposal is concerned, does the rapporteur not see any problem at all in the fact that we have citizens in Denmark who will not be able to have an account, even though all the conditions in our society that have been mentioned, the Easy Account and everything else, make it actually necessary to have a bank account? Is it not reasonable that, when we leave the operation of, for example, something as important as the financial sector alone to private individuals, so do some demands also make the other way, namely that of course they should be able to deliver it here? Because it is a prerequisite for the functioning of our society that citizens can participate in society. So, aren't you still with all due respect for your attitude, even though we disagree very much about the country a little too far over looking at corporate interests here and a little too little about citizens' and society's interests?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204110534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204110536	First of all, Pelle Dragsted clearly does not know our views on society when he is so bold to claim that we should put companies above everything else. We don't do that at all. We are a liberal party. Companies are made by people, started by people. It's sir. Pelle Dragsted not so much for, despite the fact that he can look out into the world and see that it is in those countries where there is a possibility that people can start businesses that the population is clearly doing the best. There are some dilemmas in this, and that is what I am trying to recognise as well. There are some dilemmas. It is true that it is difficult to operate in a society today if you do not have an account. We have also done such things as Easy Account etc., so we require people to have an account. We then say that when you impose on some private companies that they have to offer accounts, we also think it is reasonable that they should be able to cover the costs that are involved. This seems to us to be a quite reasonable consideration, and I would like to stress once again that a precondition for us to be able to support this bill is that in this case some banks can recover the costs that we impose on them in here. And I would say to Pelle Dragsted that the costs are being covered in one way or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204110701	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204110704	They could, among other things. This is because billions in dividends were not paid out by the banks in these years. It is not the case that they lack money in the financial sector, on which I think we can agree. Of course, countries work best if you can start businesses and everything else. That is not what we are discussing at all. What we are discussing is whether, as a society, you can then make some demands on those companies. We do so in a wide range of areas. We impose environmental requirements, we impose health and safety requirements. And it may be that the Liberal Alliance really wants to get rid of all that, but it is just like what we do, and it is not always the case that we can compensate for it. That is because, as a company, you are also part of society, and that is why we are making demands. Therefore, I do not quite understand why it is not also a reasonable requirement to make it available here without at the same time allowing these non-attractive customers to pay, because then the result will be that some will be left without an account.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204110755	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204110757	I think that Mr. Pelle Dragsted's comment shows an unmanageable approach and perhaps in reality how little understanding Mr. Pelle Dragsted has how such a market works. Sir. Pelle Dragsted says you can just pay out less dividends. After all, we from here and the European Union have imposed capital requirements on banks. That means they need some capital. We've told them to have that. This means that there are some people who have to invest in the banks, and so they do not, if they cannot get some dividends the other way. That's how it works. I think we are about to say that time has passed). It's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204110838	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Amstrup of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204110847	Thank you very much. It will be a rather less lukewarm yes for us. We think that the legislative proposal provides a good, increased consumer protection, and it improves, among other things. the consumer's options for choice of both bank and account form. We are also very pleased with the increased transparency that is being created in the banking market and with the safeguarding of consumers' rights to a basic payment account. Now I have also heard the concerns of the other rapporteurs regarding the fee, and I think it is also pointing in a sensible direction so that we can talk about an amendment in the further work of the committee. All in all, we think that there are a great many good initiatives in the draft law, and we are happy to support this on the part of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204110940	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204110948	On the radical side, we also think it is very important that all citizens have the opportunity to have a payment account at a reasonable price, or perhaps even free of charge. The fact is that it is very difficult to maintain a modern life if you do not have an account to get your salary into and to pay your bills from when you want to buy into the web or transfer money to other people. At the same time, I also think it is good for consumers to have more clarity as to what fees they might have to pay if they choose one bank over the other. I remember that in 2014, I think it was, we had a discussion about fees. In 2013 we had that discussion about whether everyone had the right to have an account. That was where one of the big banks chose that it was the poor who had to pay to have an account, and then everyone else could get one free. They didn't get along with that. But we also had a good discussion about fees, and I just took a look at what you might have to pay a fee for. It is to have an account, to withdraw money, to have a card, to overdraft your account, to create a loan, to pay a giro card, to withdraw at the counter or for example. to lay a budget. Some of that may be very fair to say as a bank is a service for which you can charge a fee, but at least it's nice for consumers to know what they're going to pay a fee for. That is why we also think it makes sense for the Consumer Council to point out that the fee information documents should be available in good time. We also think it makes sense to talk about whether there should be a ceiling on the fee for having an account at all, as several rapporteurs have mentioned. All in all, however, we can support the proposal and we hope that in the committee process we will be able to come a little closer to some of the issues that have been raised, not least by the Consumer Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204111134	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204111144	On the part of the SF, we also think that the directive is very good and that this bill is almost as good as the directive. So, like some of my colleagues, we would like to see more attention being paid both to the spirit of the directive and also to its text, both in relation to a fee ceiling, but also in relation to the timing of the transmission of the fee information document, which Mrs Ida Auken also mentioned. In fact, I think that the Consumer Council is just pointing out some of the things that had to be changed in the legislative proposal, so that it will be very good and actually more in line with the directive. The preamble to the directive states that the aim of price regulation is to ensure that as many disadvantaged and commercially unattractive consumers as possible have access to payment accounts with basic functions. So the most important thing here is to get a ceiling on the fees at best that it will be free, but at least a ceiling on them. So we hope, on the part of the SF, that the Minister will look favourably on it, otherwise, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted also said that he would accept a majority in favour of an amendment to the bill. I certainly hope that, despite announcements that we cannot support this, the DF will help to ensure that the bill does not become a fee screw and that we safeguard consumers' interests to a greater extent. That is why we in the SF will also be waiting for our position. We think that the directive is very good and that there are also many good tactics in the legislative proposal, but we need to tighten up the areas mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204111337	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204111344	The Conservative People's Party can support the bill. There are many good tactics in the proposal. We are always on the consumer's side without exception. The bill now gives the consumer both the opportunity to compare prices better, but also access to an account almost regardless. The dilemma that always exists for people who want both business and consumers well is, of course, that as a society we cannot force companies to take some customers as a starting point. It may be criminals; it may be customers who fail to comply with their contract; it may be customers who bother and harass others. And there, as a society, you cannot say to some companies that are privately run and earn their own money that they have to take some particular customers. On the other hand, we are also in a situation where, as a citizen of society today, we need to have an account where we can have some money and we have a credit card so that we can make some transactions. I and the Conservative People's Party think that the proposal here strikes the right balance. On the one hand, therefore, we ensure that the consumer has the opportunity to have access to such an account, while at the same time obtaining the positive benefits of the proposal in terms of more transparency. On the other hand, it is also ensured that if you behave directly indecently or fail to comply with the agreements entered into, a particular financial institution cannot, of course, be forced to take one as a customer. So the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204111524	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Industry and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204111533	Thank you for that and thank you for the comments made by the rapporteurs who have spoken. In general, we must start by saying that there is, of course, a fairly broad support for the legislative proposal as such. There are individual parties that are more critical, and that is quite reasonable. However, as a number of rapporteurs have said, the main objective of this bill is to increase consumer protection by giving the individual consumer a number of new rights and tools, which will also improve consumer choice and generally make it easier for consumers to relate to an active choice of financial institution. That is, in fact, what is included in the purpose and which lies behind the draft law. What I also think is important to say is that the draft law also implements the directive on the comparability of fees for payment accounts, the transfer of payment accounts and access to payment accounts with basic features of Danish law. And let me also say here that we are working on a directive-by-law implementation. There are many parties who are concerned that there is not necessarily an overimplementation through the way we make Danish legislation, and I have noted that there are parties that still seem to be important. That is why I would just like to mention it here from Parliament's platform, so that it is clear that this does not mean that we go beyond what is required of us in connection with the directive. One of the elements of the draft law, which I would like to highlight, is that we guarantee all consumers the right to a basic payment account. This gives consumers access to a number of important banking services, for example: the possibility of accessing a payment card, access to online banking and access to payment service. The account can also be used as a Easy Account, but the consumer will also have the opportunity to use the account for the new mobile payment solutions such as MobilePay, Swipp, etc. The payment account must be offered free of charge or for a fair and reasonable fee, and I have, of course, noted that there is a desire for us to discuss this during the committee procedure, and I will certainly do so. Anything else would probably be weird, too. After all, I also have the feeling that there are parties who believe that they can already see the opportunity here for me to face the joy of Mr. Pelle Dragsted said the government was bringing itself into the minority. That must always be taken into account. But I also know that Mr. Pelle Dragsted is very interested in the cooperative government of the people. He does so in general when he makes speeches. Now we have to look at whether this is also the case in committee. But at least I'm reaching out to a big bear lab to discuss this. I know there was no clear message from the Social Democratic Party on this issue either. That is why I think it makes good sense to discuss it, and I will do so. However, I would also like to say that, as intended, the FSA will be able to monitor precisely that unfair charges are not charged in an institution and will have the power to impose a reduction in an institution's fee if it is considered to exceed the cost of a reasonable profit. It has to be said that Joachim B. Olsen actually had some quite excellent considerations. Now he is present in the Chamber, it is good that because of the EU requirements that have been made, for example. There is also a demand for banks to be able to make money and build capital. That's right. And there's nothing free. I note that the SF's rapporteur said that you could just do it for free. Well, nothing's free. Somebody's gotta pay for what's free, after all. However, we do not necessarily need to have a long discussion on this today. But I'm sure we'll come back to that question. Let me also say that another important step in the legislative proposal is to improve transparency in relation to financial institutions' fees, which also makes it easier for consumers to compare charges across institutions. The draft law introduces new rules requiring banks to provide a so-called fee information document to a consumer at the same time as the conclusion of a payment account agreement. In addition, information must be readily available on the banks' website and in the branches. I have also noted that a large number of parties have signed for this. In addition to the obligation to provide a fee information document, there is also a requirement that the financial institutions provide at least once a year a fee statement to the consumer, which shows the costs actually incurred by the consumer again, I think a good, transparent, transparent instrument, which basically also makes it easier to be a consumer. Finally, let me say that a third important element of the legislative proposal here is that in future it will be easier for consumers to change financial institutions, thereby contributing to increased competition between institutions. This is absolutely crucial for me and I have to say that I agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur; it is rare for that to happen, but when that happens, remember to say that it is of course also important that you can switch between banks or financial institutions. That goes without saying. That is absolutely crucial, and there is also money to be saved here. We know from numerous studies that knowing what your costs are offers really, really good opportunities for you to see and test where you want to be in a market and, above all, whether there is money to save. So with that I would say that I look forward to the further examination of the legislative proposal in committee and also note that there has been a good and welcoming reception of the proposal, although there are things that we will probably be discussing during committee reading. I'll look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112112	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Malte Larsen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112118	Thank you, Minister. I would also like to look forward to having this proposal dealt with in committee. I note that the point we are probably going to discuss most is what fee is reasonable for having that account, and here it must be a balance between risks to consumer safety or consumer protection, which I think should be included in the proposal. Personally, I have payment accounts that are free of charge, and I think a large part of us do. That is why I find it rather difficult to see that this should not also be common logic for banks. Then there are two things that we might have a little easier to discuss or at least clarify. One is that the directive states that the fee document must be provided in good time and that this bill calls for it to be concluded. For me, this is an over-implementation in the interests of banks or financial institutions. I would like it to be a demand that it be extradited at the same time as a request for an account. The second point I would like to make is that the fee document, that is to say the annual statement, could be handed over free of charge to the weakest if you came down to the bank and asked for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112233	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112235	But I would just like to acknowledge that a large number of political points are now being made which are to be discussed in committee. In general terms, I have noted that the Social Democratic Party supports this proposal. Then I hear that the Social Democrats have some things they think they want to discuss and perhaps clarify. Of course, I'm open to it. In relation to the issue of what has filled a great deal today, namely the question of what a reasonable fee is, I would say that I think we will have to have a slightly more technical review of that too. After all, we are in a political assembly here, but I think I would like to ask for a technical review where you can hear a little about what is behind this wording. Of course, there are also considerations about this. There is never anything that is necessarily free of charge, and you must always be careful that you do not just start with what you know and what you experience yourself. There may of course be special circumstances in which you, as a bank or as an institute, should have the opportunity to take a fee in some way. And then we have the FSA, which will ensure that it will not be too expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112342	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112347	Thank you. I also appreciate the fact that the Minister like to raise his hand and say: let us try to see if we cannot meet each other. In relation to what has been discussed most, namely the reasonableness of a fee, the Consumer Council writes precisely about what the Minister has just said: it is not possible for the individual consumer to assess the amount of a reasonable fee on the basis of the proposed criteria. This is also not possible for example. The Board of Appeal shall assess whether a given fee is reasonable or how much the upper limit of a reasonable fee may vary from a financial institution to a financial institution. Nor is it possible for these rules to be enforced under civil law. Finally, as the Minister himself mentioned, the FSA may have to assess it. There are hundreds of financial institutions in this country. If you have to assess individual cases and assess them in each case, if they come forward at all, it will be a bureaucracy without equal. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112458	Well, I don't know if it's bureaucracy without equal. Generally speaking, we have created relatively many control functions for the FSA today, which are imposed by legislation. I think it all depends on how to set this up. It also depends on how the banks set the fees that we are talking about. But the other way around, I'm not an expert on fee structures either. After all, I am a minister, I am not a banker to be able to have a discussion on these fee structures today from Parliament's platform. I think we should have that during the committee procedure, where there will then also be an opportunity to go a little further into detail. Now we have a political statement today, and I still think it is possible to do this. Otherwise, I wouldn't suggest it. Then there would have been what the financial burdens would have been for the banks if it had become completely impossible to deal with. I note that there is a disagreement about what the financial institutions think they might get from administrative burdens. But that is something that we consider not to be in agreement with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112554	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112558	We have, let us say, 2 million customers who think they want to question whether their particular fee is reasonable; we have a financial supervision that is really, really busy; there are many cases, and there have been a number of years that require a great deal of effort. That is why I believe that it can also be a political opinion to find a given ceiling on the fee and say: this is fair; all financial institutions must be able to be covered by it. But I hope we can meet in the middle of this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112636	Well, I would like to make a commitment to what the rapporteur is asking for, namely that we can meet where it is common sense to meet. That is good, and I warmly support it. Of course, I also propose that we have to discuss this. I think that is only sensible. But I'm just saying that I think this theme, among other things. It would also be good to be highlighted in a slightly more technical review, where you can also get the opportunity to learn a little bit more about some of the underlying mechanisms that exist. But, yeah, I don't think it's gonna be possible to land this case. I have an interest in that too; I have an interest in actually getting it through, I would like to have it as a minister, since it is the government's bill, and I am dependent on the Folketing supporting this bill. So I think it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112713	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112717	Yeah, I'm actually gonna try to talk to two tongues... consciously. I think it is a little strange that the Minister admits, firstly, that he is not a banker, and I can confirm that I have known him for many years, but then say that we should get this clarified by means of a technical review. I fully agree that there can be a lot of sense in getting complicated cases clarified through a technical review, and we have often done this in relation to enterprise policy in the Employment Elections in the Danish Parliament. in the field of mortgage credit and in respect of SIFI requirements and all sorts of other. However, in all modesty, you do not need to be bank-educated and you do not need a great deal of technical review to understand what we are debating today. What is at the heart of the dispute, as the Minister himself says in his written submission, is that the basic payment account must be offered either free of charge or at a reasonable rate of charge. Then the Minister should also have examined in advance what a reasonable fee could be. And that's what the minister didn't want to do. After all, the minister did not want to implement with, for example, a maximum fee, as recommended by the Consumer Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112826	You must always be careful to be friendly to the Danish People's Party. I have learned that; I shall try to stop it. But now I am, because this is kind of a handout, an offer to have a discussion on this. Yes, I know exactly what I have proposed, and I can stand by that. I do not agree with what the Consumer Council says, and I also say that there can be different fee structures from bank to bank. I certainly think so too, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby is aware of exactly what may also be the case. But whatever it is, I'm not going to make this a big polemic debate. I think we should also try to work at times to make quite sensible decisions in the Folketing. It's like what's gonna drive you, so it still drives me away, too. And everyone is free to come to that meeting. But if it's obvious to anyone, all you have to do is stop coming, and those who want to come will come.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112916	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112918	Yeah, but I don't really mind the technical reviews. I just think it is a wrong premise in this case that one should, like, give a picture that it is a complex and complex matter which one needs to be bank-educated in order to understand. I am also not a banker; I am a freight forwarder and have worked in the cake business for many years. It's something quite different from that in here in the Folketing. I have been a warehouse and transport manager; I am not a banker. Therefore, I just think it is a little wrong when the Minister is now trying to wrap this up in some nice gift paper in the form of a technical review. I'm not asking for a technical review. All I ask is that, at least, the minimum fee that I've been asking for should be paid to you ever since the Minister started with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204112957	Well, I am fully aware that there is not necessarily complete agreement between the Danish People's Party and the government in this field. Of course, we must recognize that we must accept this. I also agree with and can confirm that Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby is a freight forwarder and thus also has a strong competence within the entire part that is about fixing prices and fees. I don't think I'm going into that debate. I just think I notice that I'm having a discussion with Parliament's parties and I think I'm going to do it as a technical review and who's coming and who's not coming, we have to look at. But I will look forward to seeing those who want to be involved in that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204113031	With these words, we must note that no one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160204113047	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 5 February 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
