ParlaMint-DK_20160520100007	The meeting is open. Members of the Folketing May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA) and Jonas Dahl (SF) and others. I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following proposals: proposals for a parliamentary decision that the sale of human eggs should be treated as equivalent to the sale of semen. B 129). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520100040	The debate is open. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 24 May 2016. There has to be a justification, and that is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, who takes care of it. Here you go to the author of the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520100138	Thank you very much for that, President. I have the honour of being rapporteur for the Left here today, since Marcus Knuth is admitted elsewhere, and I am very, very pleased about that, because the debate we are going to have here today follows up on a good tradition that ensures that we take our Kingdom community seriously and seriously enough to discuss it in this Chamber. I will return to the Kingdom Community later, but I would just like to say for the time being that we are here and that I look forward to a good and constructive debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520100213	Thank you to the rapporteur and then it is time for a reply from the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520100222	Thank you. I can start by noting that the joy is spreading, because I am also happy, and I have been looking forward to this discussion of the Kingdom Community, which is, of course, a good annual tradition. The Kingdom community is important. There is very broad agreement on this here in the Folketing. We must safeguard the Kingdom community, we must strengthen and develop it, and it is a priority for my government. I'm proud of our community. We are three countries, three different countries, which are joined together by our history, by friendships and by family ties, and we are in a very special and unique way, where there is room for the common values that bind us together, but also room for diversity. Because we are different, and it can and must include our community. We can and must be able to talk openly about the problems that arise and solve them in cooperation. That's what gives us strength. There is a trust and warmth in our relations, and this was confirmed for me once again at the Kingdom meeting in Greenland 3 weeks ago, and that is why I and the government want to develop the close and good cooperation we have with the Faroe Islands and Greenland. This applies to areas which Denmark is responsible for for the whole of the Kingdom community, and it also applies to the areas which the Faroe Islands and Greenland have taken over. The statement by the government on the Kingdom Community confirms that the key word in the Kingdom Community is cooperation, and the framework for our cooperation is the autonomy arrangements. They are up-to-date and flexible and allow the Faroe Islands and Greenland to take over further competences and develop self-determination at the rate desired in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Today it is the case that the vast majority of decisions that affect the individual Faroese or the everyday lives of the individual Greenlander are taken in the Faroe Islands or in Greenland, and I think that is a sound and correct principle. This includes, for example: Economic policy, education and social and health. This applies to the environment, energy, housing and infrastructure, as well as to the economy. And when we talk about the economy, we can see that there has been significant economic progress in the Faroe Islands since 2013, and there has also been an increase in economic activity in Greenland since 2015. The progress is expected to continue this year both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. This is positive, but it does not indicate that the fundamental problems of the economy have been resolved. Now, there is a difference between the Faroe Islands and Greenland's economy, but both countries face major economic challenges in the slightly longer term. There is a very important task in maintaining a balance between public revenue and public expenditure in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland at a time when there are more older people, and therefore fewer to earn the money. The latest reports from the Economic Council of the Faroe Islands and the Greenland Economic Council show the need for budgetary improvements of 5% respectively. of GDP for the Faroe Islands and 5 1⁄2% of GDP for the Faroe Islands. of GDP in Greenland up to 2040. And both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland it corresponds to 750 million in the region. kr., and this is a very big financial challenge every year until 2040. The Faroe Islands and Greenland themselves are responsible for economic policy and for laying out the tracks now that will lead to safe welfare in the future. It is clear that the problems cannot be solved simply by investing in new revenue, although new business developments are of course important. There is a need to move further into the reform path both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, and I know that both places work on possible reform measures, for example. the pension area. This is absolutely essential if a sustainable economy is to be ensured. After all, if necessary reforms are postponed, we will only increase the scale of the problems and thus create the need for ever-increasing efforts. In Denmark, we have been through periods of reform and tightening up of the economy. I've been responsible for some of them myself. It is necessary, it has been necessary, and it will continue to be so in the future. That is why I would also like to say that if Greenland and the Faroe Islands can use our experience, we are, of course, ready to share them and help where we can, and I have also indicated this to the lagman and to the President of the Naala Suisut, not later than the April meeting. The government is following the economic development in the Faroe Islands and Greenland closely and is constantly discussing the situation with the Faroe Islands' Home Government and Naalaksuisut, with which we have a good and close cooperation, and I would also like to sign for that here today. Then there is another theme that is always in the debate, namely the whole question of own constitutions. This is another important subject which is being discussed both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, both I understand and respect it, and in connection with the Kingdom meeting I also discussed the constitutional issue with my colleagues. That is an important question. It is in the nature of the Faroe Islands and Greenland, but it is also for Denmark, because the issue contains common issues which can have a very important impact on the situation in the Kingdom Community. That is why I also attach importance to the fact that we are discussing things together and that the Danish Government is involved before a decision is taken to put a constitutional proposal to the vote, whether it is in the Latting or in the Inatsisartut or with the people, and I stress that we are aware of the track we are working on. Is it a constitution that should apply to an independent state sometime in the future, or is it a constitution that should apply while the Faroe Islands and Greenland are part of the Commonwealth? These are the main issues, and if they are the last, then such a constitution must be possible within the Kingdom community, and that is to say within the framework of the constitution, with regard to the concerns and limitations which now come from it. Here I would like to mention that the Ministry of Justice is the interpreter of the constitution of the government. It is not the government itself that interprets the Constitution, it is the Ministry of Justice that interprets the Constitution of the Government. The Constitution sets some legal framework and limits for the Kingdom, and they have been described by the Ministry of Justice in connection with the previous constitutional work in the Faroe Islands in 2010 and 2011. The Ministry of Justice's notes describe in detail the challenges that can be encountered in the constitutional work, and I urge that the notes be included in the constitutional work in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. They are an expression of the constitutional view of the government, because the view that we have adopted is also forward-looking. In this context, it is important for me to mention that the government is positive about a dialogue on the issues that may arise in connection with constitutional work in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. For it is my hope that it will succeed in achieving this work in a way that is satisfactory for both the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark. In the Faroe Islands and Greenland, increasing international engagement is also a priority. The Faroe Islands and Greenland themselves are to a large extent responsible for their commercial policy interests, but we also cooperate, among others. through our embassies, which, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, actively support the Faroe Islands and Greenland in their trade policy work, and I think this is an example of the added value that the Kingdom Community provides. Fishing is the main industry in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and it can therefore challenge the cooperation when the Faroe Islands and Greenland have an interest in the same species and at the same time they have to find a common line in the fisheries negotiations. I understand that challenge, but I just have to say that the Kingdom in the legal and international sense of the state is one subject of international law, that is, one State. The condition that all three parties in the Kingdom Community therefore have is to speak with one voice, even in situations where, on the basis of our own interests, we each have our own interests. Therefore, we recently agreed at the Kingdom meeting in Greenland that officials from all three sides of the Commonwealth should now look at practical models for our cooperation in these negotiations that run according to what is referred to as the DFG model, i.e. the Kingdom of Denmark as regards the Faroe Islands and Greenland. The Arctic is a central issue in foreign and security policy, which is increasingly on the international agenda. Most recently, the EU has also increased its focus by communicating a common Arctic policy. I had occasion to discuss this with the President-in-Office of the European Council, Donald Tusk, when we visited Greenland together this week and met with the President of the Naala Suisut, a visit which confirmed the very important cooperation that exists between Greenland and the European Union. The effects of climate change affect the living conditions of people in the Arctic with both new challenges, but also with new opportunities. We experienced this in our own eyes. Traditional industries such as catching and fishing are affected and Greenland's raw materials become more accessible. The EU's common Arctic policy, which Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland have printed, has among other things. focus on research in the Arctic environment and climate and sustainable economic development, and we can be satisfied with that. Developments and opportunities in the Arctic are also included with considerable weight in the foreign and security policy analysis that the government received a few weeks ago... so Peter Taksøe-Jensen's investigation... and I think the recommendations on the Arctic are interesting. For example: the government agrees that there is a need to strengthen the defence's task solution in the Arctic, and we will therefore present concrete proposals for strengthened action, and we will do so relatively soon. This will be done in conjunction with the fact that we are also presenting the results of the analysis to strengthen the Ministry of Defence's task solution in the Arctic. In January of this year, agreement was reached between the government and the Naala Suisut on an agreement complex on the specific foreign, defence and security policy aspects relating to the extraction and export of uranium from Greenland, and that is a result that I think we should be satisfied with. It is the result of a good and constructive joint work between Greenland and Denmark, and with the agreements reached we establish a concrete collaboration between Denmark and Greenland within the existing division of competences. This ensures that Greenland can continue its efforts to expand its mining activities and improve the opportunities for new business revenue while respecting our international obligations and meeting the highest international standards on non-proliferation. For, of course, we must ensure that uranium from Greenland is used exclusively for peaceful and civilian purposes. On the basis of the agreements, the Government submitted two legislative proposals to the Folketing, which were first examined on 19 April. At the same time, the legislative proposals have been presented to Mr Atatisisartut, where the resolution was first discussed on 13 April, and I am pleased that there is broad support for the legislative proposals, which we are therefore rightly expecting will be adopted by the summer. We have a strong tradition of working together in the Kingdom Community and of finding solutions to the challenges we face together. We have a great community, it is based on self-determination with room for diversity and where cooperation is the focal point. I am of the opinion that we are basically stronger when we stand together and we achieve the best solutions for all of us when we cooperate. That is why I hope that we will have a strong community in the future too, and that is why I am looking forward to a good and constructive debate here today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520101558	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then it is again the rapporteur for the questions put by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520101611	Thank you very much. Following the Prime Minister's excellent remarks, I can say that the Kingdom Community is characterised by strong cooperation between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. For decades we have shared knowledge, helped each other and had a healthy dialogue across our three countries. And that is no wonder, because all three of us are historically bound together, a bond that we must safeguard, a bond that we must use in the future too, because this bond has ensured that we live together today. Whether we travel across the kingdom to study, to work or to engage romantically in each other, we, as populations, are woven into each other crosswise, and that is in my optics the greatest strength of the kingdom community. After all, our relationship can be compared with a group of siblings whose relationships are becoming increasingly equal over time. Nowadays, Greenlanders and Faroese people naturally make the vast majority of citizens' decisions. This is true, for example. education policy, social and health policy, infrastructure, etc. It is a sensible one, it is an appropriate one and it is a flexible solution which gives Greenlanders and forefathers maximum influence on the policies that influence their lives and their countries. Economically, Greenland and the Faroe Islands as well as Denmark are challenged in the years ahead, for although both countries have experienced economic progress in recent years, the need for reforms is still very great. Both countries, like Denmark, are extremely challenged by the fact that in the future there will be fewer people to pay the bill on the labour market for the increasing number of older people entering society. Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark need to do something about this. Reforms are needed in all parts of the Kingdom community, and if Denmark can help with experience, with help in this respect, then of course we must stand ready to provide the assistance, the support, the advice that must be needed. Foreign policy, too, has been the test of the Kingdom community these years. The Arctic is a central issue both nationally and internationally, and this requires us to join forces in the Kingdom community. We need to stand shoulder to shoulder if we are to have the necessary gravity to act as an effective counterpart to the large and powerful states such as the United States, Russia and Canada. That is why cooperation is and remains the key word, because we must help each other, we must take advantage of the close bond we have always had. I am sure that we will have a good debate here today on reforms, own constitutions, the Arctic and so on, and I would like to acknowledge once again that we are continuing this excellent tradition of annual explanations of the Kingdom community, so that we in this House also have a focus on all parts of the Kingdom, and I look forward to that debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520101933	Thank you. There are no comments, so now we go to the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520101950	It is not possible to comment on all parts of the statement, because it is a very thorough statement. And thanks to the Prime Minister for that. This testifies to the fact that there are many important issues that are pressing for our Kingdom community. And as in any other community with many years on the back, there are both sunshine stories to tell about and also great challenges where we have to show that we can lift in flock. The Arctic is on its way to becoming a focal point. Countries around the world are interested in the opportunities that are opening up in the Arctic. It also means that we in the Commonwealth must be very aware of our foreign and security policy, because in a way large-scale policy has already been adopted in the Arctic. Both cargo ships and cruise ships are increasing in numbers right now and in the years to come, and this requires a number of larger and more developed search and rescue preparedness. Fortunately, serious initiatives have been taken to resolve this as well as possible. The opportunities for increased fishing further northwards, for sailing through the north-east and north-west passages, for the extraction of raw materials, for increased tourism, etc. in order to ensure that these new opportunities are exploited in a sustainable, safe and environmentally sound manner. Now we're going to the Faroe Islands. The Faroe Islands are in many ways one of the sunshine stories. The Faroe Islands are in progress. I guess it's a little polemical to say that when there's tranquillity about fishing quotas, there's growth in the Faroe Islands. Fish remain the overriding export product, and the good news is that exports have increased significantly in recent years. This is due to great skill in the Faroe Islands and, of course, also to the fact that exports to Russia have increased considerably while the reciprocal EU-Russian boycott is running. It is therefore also clear that good and constructive cooperation between the Kingdom Community and the European Union on fishing quotas is of great and crucial importance. It is not always easy, but we must maintain our cooperation. Like other countries, the Faroe Islands also experience increased pressure on public expenditure, including: Because, fortunately, the Faroese also gain a higher life expectancy and thus need more support from the public sector. The convicts now take back a number of responsibilities, personal, family and inherited, aviation, the area of foreigners and border controls, and the Socialists fully support this. Now I will look to Greenland. There is no doubt that Greenland is facing important, but also difficult, priorities in the coming period. Because, on the one hand, the wealth of ideas is great compared to, for example, the wealth of ideas. future large capital investment that can pave the way for new development to Greenland, and on the other hand it is no secret that the economy is in need. It requires courageous decisions with a glance at the very long term. On the other hand, I have no doubt that there are large and yet undissolved potentials for the development of jobs present in Greenland, which, with the right decisions, can have a decisive positive impact on Greenland's future. The business potential is e.g.: in mining, processing fish before export, in establishing research environments and in tourism. The only thing you can't do is sit down and wait for others to come and invest. Greenland itself must be the biggest driver in the struggle to get more jobs. The whole world is looking at climate change, which is so clear about and in Greenland. Perhaps we should turn it around and create a further foundation for future climate research and monitoring using drones on the east coast or seriously strengthen research cooperation by attracting the nations that are interested in carrying out research in climate conditions, permafrost and other in Greenland, which have the ideal conditions for carrying out this type of research. It also requires thinking about external investment. Capital injections may come from outside, but there are also several good opportunities for loans and grants from the Growth Fund, the Export Credit Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank and the European Fund for Strategic Investments. New business potentials are certainly present, but it requires courage and effort. Let us not forget that there is also a more earthly challenge, that of traditional seal hunting. It is a scandal that seal hunters cannot get rid of their skins because of completely misunderstood perceptions that seals are close to being endangered animals and that catches are not sustainable. The European Union has now changed course towards seal skins and has promised action in favour of the prisoners, but frankly we have not yet seen a single initiative. Here, the Socialists will urge the Danish Government to keep the EU committed to ensuring that citizens and authorities in the EU countries are informed about the legality of Greenlandic products. This is absolutely crucial for the industry. Training is crucial for Greenland to be able to occupy new jobs with its own labour force. The Folkeskole, upper secondary education, vocational training and higher education are all absolutely necessary in order to create growth in Greenland for the many wishes you have, for example. plant. One of the sunshine stories is that 98 percent. of the young Greenlanders who go to Denmark to take a long higher education course return to Greenland and can help to lift and develop, because there is no doubt that there is a general need for an education boost in Greenland. The great child of pain is the many children and young people at risk. Earlier this year we had a question debate in this Chamber about the conditions for vulnerable children and young people in Greenland. The child speaker in Greenland reported that children in North Greenland are miserable and do not get the help they need and claim. When children and young people are deprived of care, abused or subjected to incest, it is the responsibility and duty of the municipalities and the Greenlandic State to ensure that the aid to vulnerable children is adequate and that it arrives. As a Kingdom community, we must not leave these children and young people in the lurch. The suicide rate is alarmingly high, especially among the 17-20-year-olds. They have lost faith that there is a good life for them and they are not getting the professional treatment they need. That is why we need to look at how we can support the mobility of young people, for example. can have the opportunity to train outside the settlements, regardless of the size of the family's purse. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Social Democrats, how far the Minister for Social Affairs is in the dialogue with the Greenland Minister for Social Affairs, where Denmark can support and help. Perhaps it will also be part of the solution that all settlements get a municipal bailiff. I know that there are settlements where there is no municipal bailiff for the simple reason that no one will be. I do not have an easy solution to this challenge, but we can state that it is they who are largely the first and only to deal with social matters, violence, neglect and abuse of children in the settlements until the police can be present. In conclusion, both the Faroe Islands and Greenland are working to formulate their own constitutions within the framework of the Kingdom Community. And, of course, we in the Socialist Group will follow this work with great interest. There are plenty of lives in the Kingdom community. There are plenty of opportunities and lots of challenges, but also room for community and strong ties between our peoples. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520102753	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520102758	Thank you for a very comprehensive statement. I am very pleased to see that the Socialists have entered into many, many areas which I think are very important. When we talk about the Kingdom Community, we often hear what opportunities it brings with it and what climate change will mean for the Kingdom Community. I think it is very good, as the Socialist Group in the European Parliament points out, that the responsibilities of the state must also live up to the dignity of the Kingdom Community. The rapporteur mentions, among other things: legal certainty and many other areas of great importance for the local population at home. I also think that in many areas the Danish Government has neglected the Greenlandic area, particularly in the area of legal certainty, in the field of sea measurement and in many other areas, which I think should be given priority if we want to give priority to the Kingdom Community. I would like to ask the rapporteur what priorities should be set in order to ensure a strengthened Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520102903	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520102905	There will, of course, be several things that require us to strengthen our cooperation. It should not be understood that we do not have good cooperation, because we do. But there will always be areas where we need to improve. It is true that one of the areas where something better can be done is the area of justice. And I'm worried that there are no municipal guards, for example. in all the settlements, which we have actually set up for there to be. And I think it's a task that we have to solve together. In the week we are about to end now, we have also been working on the chart survey, and it seems that the government will not be able to deliver the charts on time, namely by the end of 2018. We have also said that it is not satisfactory and that it is something the government must do. But I also believe that there are both security policy and foreign policy issues that are very pressing, and that is why exactly the cooperation between governments, that is to say, that nobody is coming and saying how it should be, is absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103017	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103020	With regard to sea surveying, we also think it is very important to maintain the demands that have been made against each other. I can mention that the Greenlandic Naalakkersuisut and Inatsisartut maintain the demand for the joint cooperation agreement between the governments of Denmark and Greenland with regard to sea surveying, so that the charts are delivered on time, as an agreement has been reached. I certainly hope that we can see support for this from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103048	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103049	We have also said in this Chamber this week that we support that task being solved and the cards being handed in on time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103057	Henrik Brodersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103059	Thank you. Now a great deal has been said by the rapporteur about cooperation and commitments, and there are certain things that have been taken over by Greenland and by the Faroe Islands. We fully understand that, but then there must also be an expectation that when you take back an area, it will also be taken care of. The rapporteur spoke a little about this with regard to education, and it has to be said that the level of education in Greenland is extremely low. The vast majority have only a primary school education, and this poses some challenges of dimensions in terms of building a society, especially because many Greenlanders choose Greenland from later on. Up to one fifth of those born in Greenland live outside Greenland. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: if you now have an obligation to take care of an area, is it not also the case that we in Denmark must ensure that it is done, that is to say that you meet the obligations you have in relation to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103216	Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103217	There is no doubt that we in Southern Denmark provide training places for Greenlandic students. And that is certainly one of the ways it can be done. After all, the area of education is an area that Greenland has taken home, and that is why it is a task that needs to be solved in Greenland. But there is no doubt that the Danish state will always cooperate with Greenland if they want us to do so. It is the same thing that has happened in the social field. When we had the question for not so many months, our Minister for Social Affairs stood on this platform and said that we would offer help. But we must also ask for help from Greenland. Moreover, I agree with the rapporteur that the level of education is not high in Greenland, and that is one of the things that is absolutely crucial for Greenland to be able to lift up as a country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103320	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103322	Thank you. So, the population of Greenland also grows older and older, and the young people choose Greenland from, perhaps because the level of education is very low. And in view of this, there is always talk of us supporting from down here, and that Greenland has now, for example, taken the education area home. You can just see that it is not going in the right direction, and then I think you should have a talk about what we can do and what we demand of Greenland when they have taken an area, so we also take care of it. Because this is not a question of dunking the Greenlanders on top of our heads, but because we are really concerned about whether that part of our kingdom community is sustainable in the long term with the development that is when we look forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103418	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103419	I do not disagree very much with the rapporteur. I would just like to give two examples. The other day we had a hearing in here about vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. And when that hearing was finished, I spoke to one of the young Greenlandic students who attend the university here in Denmark. And she said 98 percent. of the Greenlandic young people who are in Denmark for higher education return to Greenland and work there. At least that's a really good thing. It is also the case that a child who has finished primary school in any village in Greenland has to leave the village and may only come home once in a while. If that child is to have just a youth education, he or she must travel several hundred kilometers away from home, and I think that is an obstacle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103526	Thank you. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103530	Thank you very much. First, two comments. One comment is in relation to the issue of education: I can confirm that it is 98 per cent, and I think that is very positive as well. I believe that a lot of people born and raised in Greenland feel a deep commitment to come home and help build their country. Another comment is this with Southern Denmark. I hope we can eliminate that word from the future when we talk about the Commonwealth, because I think it is running a little cold down my back to hear. At one point, the rapporteur mentioned the EU ban on the sale of sealskins and the inuit exemption. I really think that this case, when it was dealt with in the European Union last time, was indeed a very good example of close and good cooperation within the Kingdom community in terms of speaking with one voice. What we saw, unfortunately, was that the European Union decided to do information activities, but 0 DKK has been set aside. After all, there is now a broad front, both among parliamentarians in the European Parliament, in the Folketing and in Greenland, which has supported the Prime Minister, in cooperation with the President of the Naalaksuisut, to press for something more to be done. That is one of the things I heard the rapporteur say. I would like the rapporteur to clarify some of the considerations in relation to how we can ensure that there is a greater understanding of the traditional way of life in Greenland and the importance of seal skins and seal skins for Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103706	The rapporteur, Mrs Karin Gaardsted, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103708	Thank you. First, I just want to apologize if I've used the wrong term. That wasn't the intention. In fact, I find the issue of the European Union a little problematic. After all, we know that the Prime Minister has just been with Tusk in Greenland, and it might well be that Tusk has come from there with a slightly different view from that he has had in the past, and thus can return to the EU corridors and get the seal-catch information campaign started, to which the European Union has committed itself. I simply think that we need to stop them from promising it, because what they have done in the past in the European Union has done such damage to seal-catchers in Greenland. They could not get rid of their skins; they had to throw them down the water's edge, while they could be used for really good clothing around the world. So we're gonna have to hold on to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103810	Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103815	Thank you. In my party's view, the Kingdom community is based on a political understanding, not on the established framework of the constitution. The Constitution does not say anything about the Kingdom. It doesn't say anything about the Faroe Islands. As you know, the Faroe Islands have their own legislative power, their own tax system, etc. Nevertheless, in my opinion, the Prime Minister made the big mistake in his reply just before that he made a complete resemblance between the Commonwealth and the Constitution, as if it were one and the same thing. He said: within the Kingdom community, that is, within the constitution... what does the Social Democrat rapporteur think about putting a complete resemblance between the Kingdom Community and the Constitution, which says nothing about the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103908	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520103909	Of course, it would be very good if the Prime Minister himself would answer that question. I would like to take my point of departure from the fact that we have a very long tradition of having a kingdom community, and we in the Socialist Group would like to uphold that community. We do not want to do without the Kingdom Community, but at the same time we will respect the fact that more and more areas are of course being taken home, and that there will also now be work on own constitutions within the framework that the Kingdom Community now has, and it will of course have to be within that framework. We cannot just say that it is now being given completely free. For then there will be no community of kingdoms anymore if all parties do not remain within the relatively broad framework. But with regard to the Constitution, the Prime Minister must explain for himself why he has said as he has done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520104004	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520104019	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Prime Minister. I think that is a good and thorough statement he has made. It deals with many issues, and that is what it should be. My limited speaking time means that I have decided to devote all my speaking time, particularly to Greenland's economic situation, which I find disturbing and which no longer seems to have any special means of remedying, and that, if the changes do not happen, will mean that we move into the uncertain. After all, the alarm bells have sounded for a long time and increased in earnest as the very thorough university report was published for the benefit of Greenland. It stated that fiscal policy was no longer sustainable and that even in the shorter term, public expenditure could not be covered by the block subsidy and the expected tax revenues. The Greenland Economic Council has considered that the adjustment of fiscal policy, as has also been stated in the statement, is required at a level of 750 million. kr. every year until 2040. That's a shocking number. This is equivalent in Denmark to a required budget improvement of 75 billion. kr. every year for 25 years. And I guess that is without any particular hope of improving the finances. As you know, there are three ways of adapting a financial policy. One can cut public expenditure • I consider this a rather impossible exercise in Greenland because the social and health services are pressured to the utmost. Structures can be changed, and that is probably where we need to go. At the moment, there does not seem to be any suggestion from changing Greenlandic governments about structural change. I understand that something may be on the way here next year, and I look forward to that with interest. The last thing is to raise revenue. And here it is because of the legal freezing of the block grant, which was a request from Greenland. I myself sat on the Greenlandic-Danish Self-Government Commission. It was an explicit wish of the Greenlanders that it should come about. This means that it cannot be negotiated. And then there is the lack of prospect of legal freezes, of significant raw materials revenue and the flight from Greenland of workables. It is not possible to see any particular light ahead. The most recent assessments by different sides do not give rise to greater optimism. Here is one example: primary school, which could in the long term be a rescuer. It is true, as the Socialist rapporteur has also said, that education is essential when it comes to long-term structural change. The primary schools simply do not work very well in Greenland, which means that many, when they have children in mixed marriages in particular, i.e. Danish-Greenland marriages, move to Denmark when the children start school, because they simply do not feel that the quality is sufficient in the Greenlandic primary school. Then there's a dramatic relocation. Every fourth person born in Greenland is now resident in Denmark. So that's about 16,000. Every fourth person born in Greenland is now resident in Denmark. The major vintages of the 1960s now face public support. It is, moreover, a phenomenon which is of course interesting in all three parts of the Kingdom community. The raw materials investigation is dead. There is virtually no mining anymore in Greenland. The oil dreams have long since been shattered. All companies have pulled out of business and what could possibly be found from other raw materials will not be able to correct the economy. Then I actually remember in such a strange way how we sat in the Folketing a short time ago and had to rush through a so-called large scale law, and then everything should be good. I remember that there were a lot of questions that were not answered by the Social Democratic Government at the time, and that is why many parties were really unhappy that it had to be rushed through. Everything in the world had to be done before the summer break, because then things could really be set in motion. So it was a very fast and such a little sloppy work that was, and then the big scale law was passed, and then they had to get started. It was rushed through. You couldn't wait three months for a new parliamentary season. And then what happens? Not a single project has been launched. If the miracle were to happen, a large scale project would be set in motion.There is talk of labour in somewhere between 3,000 and 5,000 workers, so you have to have in mind that even if that happens, 12 to 15 large scale projects will still have to be started at once before the Greenlandic economy will be able to become self-earned. There are 30 settlements, it appears, with a population of less than 100. Tourism, together with raw materials, was what should be a golden opportunity. I can say in parentheses that while Greenland has 50,000 tourists at annual level, Iceland has 1,000,000. I've been in both places, and I think I know where I'd rather go on vacation. So it's in Greenland, because it's much more exciting. I'm sure I'm gonna be bothering some Icelanders now... we shouldn't just forget what I just said. Greenland is a great place, and there should be every possibility that you could really get tourism up and running. Then Greenland is very concerned that it alone has something to do with the length of runways. Now that is what is essential, that is to say, to get a large and long runway in Ilulissat and also in Nuuk, and then it all had to run. It is, after all, other fundamental problems that make Iceland apparently able to provide 20 times as many tourists as Greenland. These are quite different problems than a length on a runway. There must be the necessary hotels; there must be things to deal with. If you travel to Iceland as a tourist, you get such a whole range of opportunities for everything you can, and that doesn't happen in Greenland. So it is far more fundamental problems that are so that Greenland does not in any way live up to Iceland as a tourist country. Here we stand again and are spectators of Greenland's future. It is clear that if a status quo is maintained, the next stop is a completely uncertain future. It is a normal estimate that Greenland is actually, financially, fiscally paralysed, but that it avoids the disaster as a result of abroad seeing Greenland as part of the Danish economy, as is also the case with the Faroe Islands, which were mentioned earlier, so there is a feeling out there that Denmark will not let Greenland drive in the economic abyss. Those people abroad are right about that. Denmark will not. But it will all be more decent and dignified if, in this deeply frightening and serious situation, the Kingdom community now came together to explore the opportunities that still exist. That is why, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I have to make a proposal for adoption. It is not the case that I do not like the second proposal for adoption that has been sent, but this addresses it precisely, namely that we need to find a common future, otherwise things will simply not work out. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, that is, unfortunately only with us as authors, the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Prime Minister's statement, as the Danish Parliament invites the Prime Minister to enter into cooperation with the President of the Land Government and the Lagmanden as soon as possible with a view to setting up a joint commission to make suggestions on how to strengthen the Kingdom community in all areas with the aim of creating a common security for future generations. • V 72).
ParlaMint-DK_20160520104938	Thank you. The proposal will be included in the further discussions. That is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520104946	Thank you very much for your contribution. I share the concern about the economy and, as you also mention, the Economic Council has, among other things, a meeting of the Economic Council. I would point out that the reforms that have been put on the table do not go deep enough. It is a concern shared by IA, but of course it is a Greenlandic responsibility. You talk a lot about the negative challenges that are in Greenland, and you eventually mention that there are some options that you then suggest can be discussed if you follow this adoption text that you put forward. I would like to hear Søren Espersen relate a little more to what are these opportunities that you see? It is, of course, a Greenlandic responsibility to ensure Greenland's economy, but what are some of the possibilities that there are among others. could be a question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105037	Thank you. We have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. And not you. Here you go, sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105043	Well, that's what I'm looking at, first of all, tourism. It is, of course, good to continue the work on exploring the possibilities of surplus mining, but it is therefore tourism which I believe will be crucial. After all, fishing is also in some areas of the fishing of Greenland halibut and so on, I understand that it is developing, and that is a good thing. But tourism is crucial. There is the investment in Greenland that is crucial. And I therefore believe that it will have more effect if you go out to the big market, that it is a united kingdom that somehow goes out and guarantees economic investment in Greenland than if it is Greenland alone. This is because there is uncertainty about the state of Greenland's economic situation. I believe that if the Kingdom community comes as a whole, the investments will come. That is why I am asking for a joint commission to be set up, which is trying to figure out how to actually do this. How to obtain foreign investment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105151	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105152	Thank you very much. Two other points that could be pointed out are, firstly, the 32 areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland. Does the rapporteur think that there are some areas where it lags and which should also be looked at in order to ensure a stronger kingdom community? The second is that more and more Greenlanders are in Denmark. How can you help to strengthen the inclusion of Greenlanders in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105217	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105218	It's hard. People choose where they want to live in the community. You cannot and should not prevent them from choosing completely freely where they want to be. There was the fact that I also mentioned in my speech that it is often when they start having children that young people may return home, as was mentioned; I think 98 per cent. sounds like a very large number, but I choose to believe that they are going back to Denmark because Greenland is simply not enough. There are, of course, some areas where the Danish Government could do better. That is, for example, the case. within the entire criminal area and the police and the prison system, but it is none of the things that help to improve Greenland's economy. That was the subject of my speech today, at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105304	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105307	The rapporteur attaches great importance to the negative issues and things that may now be in Greenland. I think that's okay, too. There must always be room for you to see the bad and the good. If there is anything good that the rapporteur has to say, I would like to hear what it is. There is also a large area of responsibility which is under the responsibility of the Danish Government, and it is a responsibility which has weakened Greenlandic society very significantly in the last year. Just as an example, I can say that there are 14 settlements out of 60, which are not guaranteed any legal certainty and which are directly subject to the Danish Government. What does the rapporteur have to say about what can be done to do something good for Greenland on an area of responsibility which is directly one hundred percent Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105400	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105402	As I also mentioned, my speech here is about the economy. I also said in relation to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen that the Danish Government must live up to the things it needs to do in Greenland. Mrs Aleqa Hammond is asking me to find some positive things. I could find hundreds of positive things, but the time is not for festive toasts. I could keep such a thing about how wonderful and how unbreakable our cooperation is and how it is going, but it would be an unfair description of the economic, financial problems that Greenland faces. And with the limited speaking time I have, I do not think I have time to tell you how good many things are. There are also tourism things that are really going well. I understand that, for example. In Ammassalik, Tasiilaq and the area of Kulusuk, something is really going on that will strengthen conditions over there touristically, also because Icelanders have seen that area. At least there are things, but I just don't think that's what I'm talking about today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105505	Mrs Aleqa Hammond
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105507	One can choose to spend one's time saying something good or saying something bad, so it is up to oneself, and I understand from the Danish People's Party that one would rather bet on what could be negative in the kingdom community. But that is also up to them. The rapporteur mentions the number of Greenlanders living in Denmark. We can also reply that there are more than 10,000 Danes living in Greenland, and we think that is okay because it is the Kingdom Community. You can travel back and forth as you like. And there we always do what we can to ensure good inclusion. What is the Danish People's Party's policy to ensure a good inclusion of Greenlanders living in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105547	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105549	But Greenlanders who move to Denmark are Danish citizens, and they are in the Danish system from day one. Greenlanders coming to Denmark are treated in exactly the same way as all Danes are treated, no matter where they settle they just join the municipality. There they are offered some things that they seem to like. There are some well-functioning kindergartens, some well-functioning schools, and that may be why they stay. I do not see my task as being to ensure or ensure that Greenlanders return home. If there was a proper, well-functioning kindergarten system and school system, nap me if no more went back to Greenland again. By the way, I look forward to hearing Mrs Aleqa Hammond's speech, because it will probably be both festive and optimistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105636	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105638	Thank you. I have my doubts as to whether I remember correctly, so I should like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is true that Mr. Søren Espersen and Dansk Folkeparti voted against the draft law on self-government and is actually against the law on self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105653	Here you go, sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105654	That is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105656	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105657	Then I understand a little better the way in which things are going and the criticism that is constantly being levelled at Greenland, which has a very, very difficult time solving a number of problems. It seems a little old-colonial when you raise things like that and then you don't want to solve it yourself. I think that a few days ago, we saw that Søren Espersen would first help solve the problem of the charts, which are all about life and death in Greenland, if things go really wrong, and then suddenly changed their mind in an hour and said that now we had to see when the Prime Minister had time to make the maps, then we could do it at that time. What's the reason for that, sir? Søren Espersen himself does not want to help deliver what we have to deliver from Denmark? However, it would be nice to sweep at your own door before you start pointing fingers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105744	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105745	When we said no to the proposal for a self-government law at the time, it was because we thought that the economic part of it was unfair in relation to Denmark. We saw for ourselves a division, a common oil fund, a raw material fund to fund it so that we were together in it. That Greenland should have 100%, we were opposed to it. That is why we voted against the draft law on self-government. It does not at all mean that I am negative towards Greenland. The charts? But when the government comes and tells us that it cannot deliver what it was supposed to deliver at the agreed time it could not be done because there was a collective resignation from experts; it was not possible to do so then we arrange for what is then reality. In other words, the government cannot guarantee that throughout July there will only be sunshine, and that is the same way. There is no way to change the situation that all the experts in the GEUS have resigned. So we relate to reality, but I do know that it is normal in Enhedslisten that you relate to dreaming.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105845	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105848	The rapporteur briefly touched on the need for investment and the possibility of an investment fund, etc. This is the kind of issue that we come back to over and over again, namely whether we could be more active or offensive in this area, and there are a number of activities going on around here under the auspices of the Export Council and Growth Councils, etc. However, it could be imagined that we from the Danish side perhaps took the initiative of asking the other parts of the Danish community whether we should create a common Arctic investment fund, where we all contributed and where we tried to take a little lead with a small amount of public money in order to get a lot of private money, as we did, for example. Does it know from the IFU context in relation to the climate investment fund or other examples?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105944	Here you go, sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520105945	In other words, it is good that there will be investment in Greenland, also that we will do so together. But we in the Danish People's Party do not want to participate in such agreements without any economic benefits for Denmark as well. And the law of self-government is an obstacle to that. So, you have decided in Greenland yourself that you want a frozen block supplement and that you have to have all the raw materials revenue yourself. That is the starting point. If that situation is to change, we need to change the law of self-government. Then we will have to change the economics of the Self-Government Act so that it is something that benefits the whole Kingdom community. I'd like to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520110025	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520110027	What I am talking about is not that the Danish state should make large, massive investments. What I am talking about is that we could make a construction, as we have known, in other areas where we are spending a small amount of money, which can then be used to identify the risk of large private investment, which must be commercial and which must be able to stand on its own and hopefully be of benefit to those who invest, but also to the country that is investing in. That is the idea I have here, and I think it might be possible to imagine that within the framework of the current self-government law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520110059	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520110100	Well, I'm sorry, sir. I misunderstood. Martin Lidegaard. I thought we were talking about government money. But business investment is something I would very much like to see, i.e. that you have business investment, but with a common guarantee from Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, that you do it as a joint project and thus, in my view, have much greater opportunities to attract financial investment from abroad, i.e. from third parties. I really believe that, and that is why I propose in my proposal for adoption that a Commission be set up to look at how it is done. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520110145	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more comments, and then it's sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520110202	Thank you. The kingdom community is quite unique, i.e. having something similar to two former Danish colonies. I know it's not a nice language to use, and the Faroe Islands have not been a colony in that sense, but Denmark has said, okay, the two areas can work independently, first through home government and later through self-government, and of course it is also put in place that they have the opportunity to become self-employed if they want to, and that it is actually up to Greenland and the Faroe Islands to decide for themselves. This calls for a very, very great need for us to work equally in our cooperation, and I think Denmark owes it to us to work more with parts of this agreement, among other things. the standard. For example: It is quite unreasonable that there are two standards, one here in Denmark and one in Greenland, because the legal policy, the villagers are mentioned, and it is quite important that we get this right. I think there is a problem in terms of foreign policy. It has been pointed out several times by the North Atlantic colleagues that they are not being involved, for example. when Denmark goes to war. Why don't they? It would be quite reasonable to talk about equality. As far as the Arctic is concerned, it is important to point out that without Greenland in particular, but also the Faroe Islands, Denmark would have nothing, nothing to have said in the questions about the Arctic. It is therefore important that we make extreme efforts to involve our two other partners in the Arctic cooperation. Furthermore, I think it is important that we work both to ensure sustainable development in the Arctic, an a-weapons-free area, I see as a fundamental idea that we get in place, and then we have to work with models that take optimal account of the people who live there and not of all sorts of great power interests around the globe. There is hardly any country in the world that does not want to interfere in the Arctic or try to get a leg pushed in somewhere. Countries that are incredibly far from the Arctic want to interfere, and it must not upset the fundamental principle that it is the people who live in the area that we must start from, because it is their lives, it is their development that is the most important, and so, of course, that we maintain sustainable development so that nature can last. Then there is the constitutional issue. That's interesting to listen to. I have never heard the Prime Minister say anything other than that it should be within the framework of the Kingdom Community. And what does that mean? This has not been explained very carefully. If I have to interpret this, it means that Greenland and the Faroe Islands can make exactly the constitutions they want, whether it is for the purpose of being independent or whether it is for the purpose of continuing to have the status under the Self-Government Act that is currently in force. In my opinion, this is of no importance, because the Kingdom and the Law of Self-Government allow Greenland and the Faroe Islands to take a step at some point and then say that they will now be self-employed. That is why I would like us not to talk about it, because it seems quite foolish to say that within the framework of the Kingdom Community. If we are to be equal, it is their free right to decide how they will make their constitution, and I think that will be quite necessary to make that clear. Then there is economic development, and there I agree that it is really important to have a very strong cooperation if the economic problems in Greenland in particular are to be solved, so that Greenland can become more and more economically independent, because it must be the goal that the Faroe Islands and Greenland individually can be completely independent. And there I think we need to talk about some concrete things. We have had a very good debate the other day about Greenlanders in Denmark, and there I think there are some very, very sensible plans that Greenlandic MPs have worked with themselves; especially IA has a very, very nice plan that I think we should continue working on. Then we have Thulebasen, the service agreement in Thule. We have a plan there too, but I do not know how it is going, because we have agreed that the United States does not comply with the spirit of the agreement and that we must work to ensure that the service agreement remains in the hands of Greenlandic-Danish people and that we get the maximum return from the Americans' visits to Greenland for as long as it lasts. I would like to see in the future that there was no base in Greenland, but of course I understand that the Greenlanders want to make some money as it lies in their country. Then there is the entire Greenlandic mining. There I am a strong supporter of the policy of zero tolerance, even though I know that the current government has abandoned it. I am very sorry if we are going to have more uranium on a hollow market and the agreement that has been made is not good enough and the security we have on the international market that uranium will not get into the wrong hands is not good enough. I would like to ask the Greenlanders to leave the uranium and thorium in the ground where it lies. It is best for themselves, but also for the world as such. Then there's the Greenlandic chart. I was deeply disappointed by the rubber band that the government delivered. Now we heard Mr. Søren Espersen says it was because it was not physically possible. Well, it turned out that the specialists hadn't even been asked if you could make an agreement to finish this in Copenhagen. It's ideologically important that you move that geounit to Aalborg... cost what it wants. In other words, the government would rather move jobs to Aalborg than comply with the agreements it has. I think that is irresponsible, quite irresponsible. I believe it would have been possible. In addition, there is also an offer and rooting in cyberspace from a Danish-Greenland company that believes they can solve the task. I do not think the government has properly examined whether it is possible to solve this; they have just said that the most important thing is to move jobs out of the end! It's stupid in my opinion. As far as the whole seal skin area is concerned, I fully agree. We have to tell the European Union that they owe a campaign. They cannot settle for fine words here. The Prime Minister has to go down to Brussels and hit the table and ask: when will the campaign to correct the miscampaign that has been about sealskin? I am so happy that there has been support for the Faroese in the campaign that has been, against the right to fish grind. I think it is quite appropriate that when activists try to prevent the sensible and natural way of catching grind, we should of course support the right to fish grind. But I am not satisfied with the government when the Prime Minister tells us to speak with one voice. Yes, thank you. When there was a fish dispute between the EU and the Faroe Islands, the government spoke with one voice, and it did not matter whether it was the Social Democrats or the Left, namely with the EU's voice. We closed the Danish ports to Faroese fishing boats. Is it speaking with one voice in the Kingdom community? I don't think so. It was embarrassing. The Danes should, of course, have opened the ports and made sure that the fish could enter, and then the dispute with the EU had to be taken instead. It was shameful that we did it that way at the time. So all in all, I would like to say that the Commonwealth has many very good points, but there are still things to take up for the government that we have, and I think that we must get a little out of the sand and get a little started on some of the problems that have also been mentioned here. There is only one proposal for adoption at the moment, and I think that is a problem. It's sir. Søren Espersen's proposal for adoption, so I would like to read out a proposal for adoption that SF and Enhedslisten have made in haste, because we could see that there was work on the other, but mostly with the left hand. Therefore, on behalf of EL and SF, so that there is at least one, we can see if there will be one from others later: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament finds that an equal and respectful cooperation between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland benefits all three countries in the Kingdom Community. The Folketing recognises that the Faroe Islands and Greenland are free to work with their own constitutions. The Danish Parliament urges the government to stay informed about the economic challenges facing the Faroe Islands and Greenland in ensuring sustainable and sustainable social development and contributing actively to the promotion of investment in all parts of the Kingdom Community. The Danish Parliament notes an increased international interest in the Arctic and the North Atlantic and calls for increased efforts to benefit all parties and for cooperation on foreign and security policy between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland to continue to be a priority in accordance with the principles of the Fámjin and Itilleq Declarations and the Kingdom of Denmark's strategy for the Arctic 2011-2020. In order to promote the development of the Kingdom Community, Parliament calls for cooperation between the three countries to be strengthened and continued to be given priority. • V 73).
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111200	Thank you. This proposal is also part of the further negotiations. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111213	I'm just wondering, sir. Christian Juhl's patronizing mention of Greenland as a colony. Recognizes Mr. Christian Juhl not that Greenland is an equal, autonomous part of the kingdom of Denmark, and that it is a historical community that we have had together since 1380, and that it is not a matter of a colonial relationship between Denmark and Greenland? I think it's a bad way to talk the community down. I do not really know what the purpose is for using such a language that brings the Caribbean to mind, slavery and all sorts of historical conditions that have no relevance in the relationship we have between Denmark and Greenland today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111306	I said now, if mr. Rasmus Jarlov listened, former colony. Because I believe that the way we have treated Greenland in the past is similar to the way Denmark has treated colonies. And we have scandals after scandals, which we owe Greenland just to help correct. I hope it hasn't worked out, sir. Rasmus Jarlov passed that there has been a TV series about relations with Greenland and the Faroe Islands. There have been stories over time, and a number of books have been written about these very conditions. It has now been amended with the Self-Government Act, so that in our basis there is an equal relationship. I fully agree with that, but that is why we do not need to close our eyes to the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111351	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111355	However, I would like to add to this colonial discussion that 5-6 years ago, DIIS made a statement which showed that Denmark has not at one time had any economic profits or profits in Greenland. What usually characterizes a colonial power is that you go out to exploit an area. Let it go. I understand that sir. Christian Juhl would like to involve the Faroe Islands and Greenland more in the military conditions, including the kingdom's defences. Does this mean that Enhedslisten is in favour of the introduction of military service in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111430	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111432	No, it doesn't. It just means that I think that equals talk to each other before they make important decisions. Equal partners make sure to listen to each other instead of the two sides over the head of the third saying: So, now we go to war. It is indeed the case that there are also soldiers from, for example. Faroe Islands. I believe that the Faroe Islands and Greenland must find out for themselves whether or not there is to be military service.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111502	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111504	I think it was just mentioned that it should be equal partners. After all, it is not equal when the Danish young men have to enter and serve their military service, while the Greenlandic and Faroese men do not have to. That's not equality. Is it? I think so, sir. Christian Juhl has to explain. Well, of course it's not. It is very important that, if you want to enter into the discussions on the defence of the Kingdom, you also have to do what needs to be done. The second is to leave behind the past, and I note with enthusiasm that, just as Christian Juhl says, there are many Faroese and Greenlanders who are active, but they are volunteering. So I am also in favour of equality in this area, and I hope that Christian Juhl will.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111548	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111549	I do not intend to contribute to the introduction of military service in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland I leave it safe to them. In the same way, in principle, there is no military service in Denmark today; it certainly does not work in practice. It is mostly those who want to be with the military who come in, and those who go to war are at least very much those who sign up for it themselves. Fortunately, it is the case that one can opt out if one does not want to take on the adventures that changing governments have adopted in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111624	Sir. Henrik Brodersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111626	Thank you. I heard from the rapporteur's question to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that he again spoke about colonial times, as he did now. I would very much like to have me begged that every time we get dunked on top of our heads that we just want to feel like in the old days, when Denmark was a colonial master and one and the other. When we question whether the regime that is in Greenland, for example, takes care of the things that are quite basic for society to exist, then I find it embarrassing that you then use your rapporteur's speech to point to exactly the one place where Denmark does not provide, namely in terms of charts. Well, you've been sailing around there for hundreds of years, and it's measured around 1%. of the entire Arctic area, so just to point out whether it will be in 2016 or 2017 that you reach the goal, I think is strange, especially when we just focus on that we would very much like the Greenlanders to meet some of the elementary requirements. The rapporteur says this time and again and simply says that Greenland must do so. It's just because we want to take care of the areas that are so important for Greenland as a nation to exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111747	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111750	Well, I see it now mostly that I hit a bit of a sore toe at the Danish People's Party, and you have to work with that yourself. I feel that we have not treated Greenland too well throughout history. I think we have reached a place where the Kingdom and the Law of Self-Government are a very good step in the right direction, and if Greenland and the Faroe Islands want independence, I think it must be a perfectly natural feeling to have when you live in a country. The Danish People's Party then does not agree that there should be a self-government law, and I would like to remind the public of this, because I meet many people who say: of course the Danish People's Party is in favour of it. Then I say: No, they may not be. And excuse me for trying to highlight the politics of the Danish People's Party. I really think that the Danish People's Party should be happy that someone did.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111850	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111852	Well, we could be, too, if that was the right interpretation of it. I think that every single time, every time, we have to listen to how naughty we are to the Greenlanders. The Danish People's Party is completely focused on the fact that we have a kingdom community, and the Danish People's Party would very much like to hold on to this, and as long as we have it, I think we should take care of these things. When we put our heels on every once in a while and say that this is not the right development, and if you don't want to take care of those areas, we just have to stand here and listen to how terrible we are. It is simply to put things in our shoes that are no basis at all. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: if we now have these areas that have gone home, we could not have an obligation to put some of them into practice, such as education, the socially vulnerable and so on. etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111943	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520111944	I think, sir. Henrik Brodersen remembers that we had a discussion here in the Chamber about children's conditions in Greenland, and I also think that Mr. Henrik Brodersen remembers what I said there. I said that if I were a Greenlandic politician, I would be very sorry and would do everything I could to get it right. As a Danish politician, I would also like to say that we have to offer the Greenlanders some very good offers so that it can be cleaned up. But that does not mean that I am in favour of the very, very special demand of the Danish People's Party to take back the whole social area and send a task force to Greenland, and all that we heard that day of quite unrealistic things. That is why I say: yes, we have good discussions, and it is good that problems are raised, and we must take a position on them precisely because we have the historical relationship with Greenland, which we have there we still owe something in my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520112033	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520112037	Thank you. Let me begin by apologizing to Mr. Christian Juhl and at the same time create some tension: I should have read out our joint proposal for adoption. It's human to fail. I was very human, and I forgot. It'll be here in a few minutes, and sir has it. Carsten Bach promised to take care of. So now there's such a little bit of held breath. I can also reject the fact that work has been done with the left hand. And besides saying that it is condescending to people who are left-handed, I can say that it is actually almost the opposite that applies, because it is made with the Left hand!
ParlaMint-DK_20160520112114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520112115	With regard to the proposal for adoption, I would like to say that I have just deliberately put it forward here because in two tiny detail areas it is like the proposal for adoption which is likely to be read out, as I have been informed. There are just two areas where the Left could have gathered probably the whole parliament, except perhaps the Danish People's Party, if they had wanted to, and I have pointed that out. And that's why I've done this, so there are two options: One that can bring together the whole Danish Parliament, and one that can gather parts of the Danish Parliament. And that seems to me to be our intention, in other words, that we should at least bring together all the North Atlantic mandates behind such a proposal for adoption as this one, and that is why I have made two tiny corrections which should not conflict with the policies of the Left or others.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520112204	There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you. Then there is a new rapporteur, and that is Mr. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520112217	Thank you very much. The level of tension will rise during my speech here, I understand, and I am glad to have received the honour. But first of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for a very thorough written statement and a fine presentation in this Chamber today, and also for the opportunity to spot the Kingdom community at all. The report shows that, in general terms, the Kingdom Community needs fundamental reforms of the economy, and that is at least the overall impression, and there is not exactly a surplus on budgets across the board either. Where there is a surplus, it is a fragile surplus and is based solely on income from a sudden political situation with the possibility of increasing exports of fish. The Liberal Alliance would very much like to maintain a strong and cooperative Kingdom community and also believe that future economic reforms carried out in one part of the Kingdom community could be an inspiration for economic reforms in other parts of the Kingdom community. We must be ready to seize the new opportunities for growth and liberal development of the economy, which in the future will arise both on land and on and below the surface of the sea. The aim should be to create a development away from publicly owned monopolies against a business sector driven by free market forces. However, it presents the political system with difficult choices, which must be consistent and capable of implementing, without too much shaking at hand, what is necessary, which may hurt, but at the same time also ensure that there is a multi-faceted economic development, particularly in the areas of raw materials, fisheries and aquaculture and tourism. The Liberal Alliance wants to support the ongoing development towards increased self-determination and constitutionalisation in the Faroe Islands and Greenland and believes that the increasing focus on development in the Arctic regions of the Kingdom community should be initiated and driven by a hopefully broad majority in local democracies. The Government and the Liberal Alliance have for some time agreed that the Kingdom has a unique platform for creating an international research environment focusing on strengthening and facilitating international basic research and technology development in the Arctic regions. It is therefore very welcome for me that the establishment of a research hub in Greenland is now also proposed in the foreign policy statement. That is why this objective should also be supported and prioritised by a united Kingdom community. The Liberal Alliance therefore looks forward with great expectations to the launch of the government's strategy for research, innovation and education in the Arctic. In my optics, the Community should focus on developing international cooperation opportunities in the area of common maritime and airspace surveillance through satellite and navigation technology, Internet and telecommunications, and a genuine cooperation organisation around an Arctic satellite programme can be set up to the benefit of us. I am pleased to know daily that the defence solves a number of common tasks for the Kingdom community. Sovereignty enforcement, SAR, fisheries and marine environment monitoring and support to the police when foreign NGOs violate legal certainty and by illegal and dangerous methods try to promote their very messages. But I miss the government's priority on defence's task solution in the Arctic, which we must expect will soon be shed some more light on. Precisely in view of the increased military presence around the Arctic and experience with the military action of other nations, we believe it is necessary to strengthen the Arctic defence and emergency cooperation between all five Arctic coastal states with the aim of preserving the Arctic as a zone free of tension. For there is a challenge associated with the non-harmonizing claims of Denmark and other Arctic coastal states on the expansion of the respective countries' continental shelf in the Arctic, which today has the prospect of a very long processing period in the United Nations. Efforts must therefore be made to ensure a faster and more flexible model for the treatment of the continental shelf requirements of the Kingdom Community in the Arctic. I could also have touched on the uranium agreement and the proposed legal complex on the safety and export control of uranium, which is under discussion in the Danish Parliament, sea charting and the conclusion of service contracts at Thulebasen, but these are all issues which have been dealt with very recently either in this Chamber or in open consultation, so I will refrain from taking note of this and instead take note of the statement by the Prime Minister and say that the Liberal Alliance supports the text of the adoption which, unfortunately, the rapporteur of the Left forgot to read earlier, and which, I believe, is very similar to Mr. Christian Juhl's previously read adoption text. Now I will trigger the excitement and on behalf of S, V, LA, ALT, RV, KF, IA, JF and SIU read out the following: Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament finds that an equal and respectful cooperation between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland benefits all three countries in the Kingdom Community. The Folketing recognises that the Faroe Islands and Greenland are free to work with their own constitutions that can be accommodated within the framework of the Kingdom Community. The Danish Parliament urges the government to keep itself informed about the economic challenges facing the Faroe Islands and Greenland in ensuring sustainable and sustainable social development and contributing actively to promoting investment in all parts of the Kingdom Community on commercial terms. The Danish Parliament notes an increased international interest in the Arctic and the North Atlantic and calls for increased efforts to benefit all parties and for cooperation on foreign and security policy between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland to continue to be a priority in accordance with the principles of the Fámjin and Itilleq Declarations and the Kingdom of Denmark's Strategy for the Arctic 2011-2020. In order to promote the development of the Kingdom Community, Parliament calls for cooperation between the three countries to be strengthened and continued to be given priority. • V 74).
ParlaMint-DK_20160520112951	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal goes on to the part of the debate that remains. Thank you. Then we need to get a new rapporteur up, and that's Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520113015	Then we need to get the microphone back down a little bit so it fits in height. Thanks to the government for the statement. I have read it with great interest and noted progress, but certainly also continued the fundamental challenges of our cooperation in the Kingdom community. The Kingdom is at a crossroads. We see a need for us to work more actively to renew it. If we really want to support the Faroe Islands and Greenland in a course of independence, we should do more to help sustainable development along the way. If the people want independence, we must do much more to support them in that work. As the government, we want sustainable development in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. However, we believe that we can do much more to support Greenland in particular, where the need is particularly great. We should ensure Danish investments that help Greenland on a course that in the long term strengthens the opportunities for an independent and sustainable economy. I also believe that we should promote sustainable development by setting up a committee under the Arctic Council, a committee working on investments and pools for renewable energy development, particularly in Greenland. We are pleased that the government welcomes the Faroe Islands and Greenland's work in drafting constitutions, but it must be supported by a much more targeted process in order to create real self-determination and independence. Constitutions must lead to a new political reality that can create the need for a new interpretation and development of our cooperation in the Kingdom Community. More long-term, we should discuss how we can ensure close and equal cooperation between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. In the long term, the possibility of a free association model could be considered as a substitute for, for example, the Self-Government Act. Such an agreement could help to secure the framework for how we can create equal cooperation on the basis of autonomy. But it must, of course, be designed according to the specific needs and interests of each country. Our Commonwealth is not only an economic-political cooperation, it is also a construction that has grown out of a long and complex colonial history. I believe that there is a need for us to have a fight with that story so that we avoid it being tabooed, especially here in Denmark. Because it is quite clear that there is a need to address the mistakes of the past. This shows, among other things, that: Very concrete cases such as the forced displacements and the cases of the legal orphans. Denmark should apologize here. We are therefore very pleased that Greenland is working on a reconciliation commission and we think that a similar Danish process would be entirely appropriate. We should basically get rid of the paternal approach we have to working with Greenland and the Faroe Islands. We must put an end to the cultural colonial approach to cooperation with our partners in the Kingdom community and take seriously the equality we are constantly talking about. This also applies to the work of the Danish Parliament. We must do everything in our power to ensure that the North Atlantic members are fully involved, especially, of course, when it comes to decisions that are of great importance to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. And it is certainly preferable if the national parliaments have dealt with and taken a position on a matter which concerns them before we do so here in the Folketing. It should be a basic requirement. As part of the rethinking of the kingdom community, it is urgent to look at how Greenland and the Faroe Islands can conduct a more independent foreign policy. The present structure does not sufficiently guarantee the countries an independent voice. For example: in relation to a more comprehensive Arctic policy, we think they should have an independent voice and role. We must not use the Kingdom as a lever to secure Danish interests at the expense of the wishes of the Greenlandic and Faroese peoples. The issue of climate change, particularly in Greenland, is largely not touched upon in the report, and I am sorry, because it is clear that Greenland is directly affected by climate change already with great importance for its citizens. The effects of climate change threaten vital infrastructures when the ice and permafrost melt. In recent years we have seen examples of melting water from the ice sheet washing away roads, and a runway in Greenland's most important hub of traffic, the international airport, has to be repaired for a large amount of millions, simply because the ground under it is thawing. It can paralyse Greenlandic society and the desire for sustainable development. Basically, it is clear that if you want to help Greenland, you cannot relax your ambitions in relation to global climate action. This certainly also applies in relation to Denmark's own line, both nationally and in a global cooperation. I would like to see us quite specifically strengthening research into climate change and actively supporting sustainable development projects such as social and environmental sustainable mining and the development of renewable energy sources. Just as we must strengthen research into fish stocks and climate change, we must also ensure that we retain and strengthen the softer research into indigenous languages, culture and history. Therefore, I also regret that the government's cuts in long-term education and research have meant that the University of Copenhagen has closed the Eskimology Study down until 2017. Fortunately, it opens up again, but if we continue with this kind of action, it means that we cut an important link between the past and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520113616	One person has asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520113622	I would like to thank you very much for a very good contribution from the rapporteur. I can see that the rapporteur of the Alternative has taken a thorough look at things in Greenland and the challenges that now exist between Denmark and Greenland in recent times. Since the rapporteur points out foreign policy and its importance for the Arctic in the future, I would like to hear a slightly more detailed explanation as to why the rapporteur considers it important that foreign competence is an area in which the Community should be aware.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520113659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520113701	I think that with the challenges we face globally, and especially when we talk about the entire Arctic area and the great interest there is, it is therefore important that we have a special focus on the fact that it is not all thought and communicated here from Denmark, but that we say: Who really lives in the Arctic? Who's gonna have a voice here? There I believe that a focus on creating more independent foreign policy from the three countries can still take place in close cooperation if you wish, but that it becomes more independent, because it is therefore a special focus that we sometimes forget here on the Danish side, where we can talk about security or strategy, how it is important we can move around. It's just another focus that may be from Greenland, compared to that there is a population living on the Arctic, and that's where the focus should be, also in foreign policy when it comes to the Arctic area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520113752	Mrs Aleqa Hammond for a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520113755	According to the Itilleq Declaration, the Danish Government has a particular obligation to include and involve the Greenlandic authorities when issues such as the Arctic and Greenland are addressed in international contexts. It is very rare that this is the case, and very often the great frustration in Greenland does not create involvement when topics such as the Arctic are taken up at a high international level. What will the alternative advise the government to do to correct this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520113826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520113827	I think that we should first of all take seriously the agreements that have been made and which, of course, say that we must include them. Involvement is not therefore about coming behind and telling what has happened, it is about involving in the process, and of course these are agreements that the government will have to take much more seriously. Then I think that the Danish Government should also start to look at what it means to be a Kingdom community in 2016, and when it comes to foreign policy, also how it is that all three of us can benefit from cooperation. I don't think it's dangerous to ask these questions. I think it is quite natural that we should consider how we can reinterpret, develop close cooperation. But there's gonna have to be an independent voice in such important things, and there's gonna be 100 percent of this involvement. seriously, and in my optics we should preferably take the step further.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520113919	There are a few more brief comments to Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist. The first one's from sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520113926	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a very good and very visionary speech. I am very pleased that the rapporteur, when addressing the issue of constitutions, says that we should not be afraid to create a new reality. But for us too, it is just a comment about like formalising what is. For the reality is that for example. The Faroe Islands have much more powers than the German Länder, which have their own constitution, and the American states which have their own constitution. It is simply a question of recognising reality and how far we have come by not locking ourselves in the provisions of the Constitution, but by allowing the interests and the necessity to develop into what we are today. And then we just have to formalize it. That's what's in it. If we do as the Prime Minister has said before: let the Constitution set the framework and allow the officials of the Ministry of Justice to have the exclusive right to interpret the Basic Law, then it is the officials of the Ministry of Justice who set limits on what we can and cannot do. I think that is a completely wrong approach, and that is why I am very pleased with the rapporteur's approach to things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114032	Thank you, too, for that clarification. It is very important for me to say that I did not just say a new reality, but a new political reality. For that is what I believe we are creating and which, in particular, the Faroe Islands and Greenland are creating with the work on the Constitution. It is so that it is a new political reality, I think quite seriously, which we need to take with us. We should not be lagging behind, but, on the contrary, constantly seize the time we are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114108	There's no wish for another round. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114115	I'd like to hear Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, how to specifically envisage involving Greenland and the Faroe Islands in foreign policy. It is a very fine statement of intent, but how do you think it is more concrete?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114136	Now it is not just a statement of intent. It is, in this sense, an agreement that we have that we should include when we have an issue that concerns, for example, the Arctic. So it's not just a statement of intent. There is an agreement that this is how we should act, and I think the government should take this seriously. Involvement can take place in many ways. Among other things, it can be done. by inviting people to the meetings. It is rarely difficult to have an extra chair with you at a meeting. And the second is that you may have a meeting before a possible meeting instead of holding it afterwards. There are many ways to involve, and I just think we have to take seriously that the reality that exists when we talk Arctic politics is that the only reason we play a role in this issue at all is Greenland. It is not because of Denmark. So involvement must be constantly developed, so that we are based on the people who live there and their interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114235	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114240	I think it's hard to disagree with that, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist says that Denmark has influence in the Arctic because of Greenland, and that nothing happens by inviting people to meetings. But is it just that, or is there something deeper in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114258	Now you do not have to disagree if you do not disagree. Well, can you just invite me to meetings? Excuse me, active participation in meetings is an involvement in foreign policy work, so it is not fair to invite. That is, then, to involve much more than what we are unfortunately seeing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114320	Sir. Magni Arge has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114325	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a very exciting and visionary speech. I think it is new tones that there are several parties opening up a discussion in which we look at what kind of political reality we find ourselves in in 2016. Perhaps we should start to deal with what kind of political reality we want to be a part of, for example. in 2030, instead of continuing to be in a trench war about what we must not do and what we cannot do because we have a constitution that was adopted in 1953 and so on, and that really does not measure up to the reality we have become part of. Because we can see that Denmark has become part of an integrated EU community, which has become a competitor to the so-called Kingdom Community. This means that there is a great distance between us and our interests. So we have to look at things in a completely new and different way than we have done in the past. I find it gratifying that you look at it the way this has been presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114431	So, I sincerely believe that we should actually go to this work with pleasure, because I think there is an exciting task for all three countries in redefining close cooperation. I am not afraid of it because there are some historical ties between us that make it natural for us to work together. So I actually believe that all of us can only win on the fact that we start redefining a little, and not all the time just building on old agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114502	Would you like to make another brief comment? No, it's fine. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist and goes further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Radical Left. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520114518	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his statement and thank you for the many good speeches that have already been made. It is a pleasure to have this debate for us Radicals, who have a very great love for the kingdom community, because we have a great love both for Greenland and the Greenlandic people and for the Faroe Islands and the Faroe Islands. In our optics Denmark and our perspective grows both in the world and in ourselves by virtue of the Kingdom Community. When I was Minister for Foreign Affairs, there were always two issues that I had in almost all the countries I visited and which came on their own, in addition to what had been agreed in advance that we should discuss. One was whether to make a partnership on green energy, because it is something they are doing in all countries, and they know that Denmark is still one of the best countries in this area. And the other thing they always asked about was the Kingdom community. Because I think it's hard for people from outside to understand the structure. How can we, on the one hand, have a binding Community and, on the other hand, have a situation in which two parties in this Community want more autonomy? Isn't there a built-in contrast between that desire and that drive, you might say, on the one hand, and the nature of the Kingdom community on the other? I tried to explain what I think is right, i.e. that it is actually so strange that the desire for greater independence is one of the driving forces of the Kingdom community. For the one question that was asked out there was of course: What is Denmark's interest in Greenland and the Faroe Islands becoming increasingly independent? There you can take a very practical approach and say that the more self-employed they become, the less financial subsidies we have to grant, but it is also a question of some more interesting partners for Denmark. For the stronger a Greenlandic people we have, and the stronger a Faroese independence we have, the stronger partners Denmark also has, and that is not a contradiction. If you want an equal partnership, it is an advantage that you are strong all three, even if you are in different ways. The second question is, of course, how Greenland and the Faroe Islands can live with being tied into a kingdom community, when what they really want is greater autonomy, and again the answer is quite obvious: it has been so until now, I dare say, that the efforts for economic autonomy which they have pursued in the Faroe Islands and Greenland have created both by virtue of themselves, but also by virtue of strong cooperation within the Kingdom community, because they, as relatively small populations, need strong cooperation, and because in the foreign policy area too I myself have had the pleasure, together with changing governments from both the Faroe Islands and Greenland, to help to open doors, to create connections and to create networks. So, on the one hand, there is huge potential, and there is also a strong opportunity to allow the desire for greater independence to go hand in hand with the Kingdom community. But not everything is rosy on the other hand when I look at it, because I actually think that if we recognise that synergy effect, we are all too bad to get anything out of it, and I think that applies to all three parts of the Kingdom Community. I sometimes think that it should be a somewhat self-critical remark that down here in the southern part of the Kingdom community we are a little concerned about saying what interests we have in the Kingdom community, and that we are also a little concerned about being critical when we think that in other parts of the Kingdom community it is going the wrong way. After all, we must all be able to bear that we can say what our positions are and in this way develop together. I think, for example, that it is a completely natural operation and an understandable operation, which I would like to support, that the people of Greenland and the people of the Faroe Islands want greater autonomy. I think it is an inherent urge of all of us people that we want to have as much influence on our own lives and our own country as possible. But sometimes I find it difficult to understand what I see as a rather populist debate, which is also in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, where getting further away from Denmark suddenly becomes the answer to all the challenges that there are in the countries and which so much call for an answer. I would venture to claim that some of the challenges are better solved in the Kingdom community than outside, and that others can be solved with greater self-determination, and I fully agree that it is entirely the Faroe Islands and Greenland's own choice, and we know that from the Self-Government Act now too. But I would also like to get involved in the discussion and say where I see that there are some synergies, and that is why I would like to mention something. After all, there has now been a major debate on the proposal for adoption, which we also support and which all parties are behind, apart from the Danish People's Party and a single North Atlantic mandate, and then in the middle of the negotiations came this slightly fresh proposal for adoption from Mr. Søren Espersen, who was concerned about not setting up a new commission and calling on the government for a new negotiation with both the lagman and the self-government in Greenland. I was, I have to say frankly, for a moment strongly tempted to vote in favour of it, because I think we have some potentials that we do not use, and could it perhaps be one way of doing it? Perhaps I just think that if we are to take a new initiative to fill the full potential of the Kingdom community, we should prepare it a little better and also do so in cooperation with the North Atlantic mandates in this Chamber and not just as such a hoofsa adoption. What I am thinking of is that, as several of us have said, we have an Arctic strategy and we have some fine ground rules and, as the Prime Minister has also explained, we have continuously developed a uranium agreement and various elements, but when I say that I think there may be a room for new thinking, it is because some things have also happened in recent years that call for a slightly new approach. Three years ago, when I was able to participate in some of the negotiations, we thought, for example, that it would be possible for us to do so. still on a big raw material adventure in Greenland, which could solve it in relation to large parts of Greenlandic economy. However, there is much evidence that it is not at least at the door, and that it is not such a thing that is just going to happen overnight. I think it is worth considering whether we could make a construction of what we have in the IFU in climate investment and in a large number of other areas where, with very limited funds, we put in such a few million dollars, we put in there a pool that can be risk-free, in order to get large commercial private investors into and invest in the kingdom community. It could be combined in many different ways, and there are of course a lot of retail issues, but when investments are to be made in fisheries and when new activities are to be invested in tourism and, of course, also in the raw materials area, it might be interesting for all parties to have it as an opportunity to attract investors to start getting some of the potentials that are there at stake. The fact is that there is still far too little investment, especially in Greenland, and there is a strong desire from the Greenlanders in particular. I think there is also the Faroese side, but lately at least the Greenlanders have been most explicit about foreign policy, they want to coordinate more, and they want to do so. We have a constitution that we cannot ignore, but it might well be that there could be stronger cooperation in this area. We have tried a little along the way with some different models, including export promotion and this kind of thing, and could we systematize it more? There is a big discussion in the Faroe Islands at the moment about a constitution, and there are some legal things that we cannot simply ignore down here in Denmark, because we have a constitution that we, after all, usually respect. But it may well be that we can think a little out of the box anyway within the framework now provided, and on that basis I think it might actually be interesting to think into the next generation of the Kingdom Community, simply because I think that is the prerequisite for us to keep it. That is not contrary to it, but it is the prerequisite for us to keep it, and I would like to conclude by saying that we, on the radical side, want to do a great deal to make it possible, but, of course, preferably in a way that can only be done in the way that all three parts feel, it makes sense and constantly more sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520115423	There are a number of brief comments. The first to a brief remark is Mrs Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520115428	I am very pleased with the rapporteur's focus on the fact that Greenland's role and the self-government agreement can in many ways create a little confusion around the world, i.e. how the two countries now belong together. I think that is a very, very important point to address. Since the autonomy agreement was adopted in 2009, Greenland's role and powers have changed according to the cooperation between Denmark and Greenland. It has in a time when Greenland is seeking foreign investors for the mining project and infrastructure area, and where we place particular emphasis on it and want international cooperation, in many ways created a little confusion. What is it actually that the new agreement looks like, and what is it that we can do under our diplomatic obligations towards Denmark? Does the rapporteur think that it would be appropriate if the Danish embassies around the world also paid particular attention to greater dissemination of information on Greenland's new role after the Act of Self-Government has entered into force?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520115538	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520115538-2	Yes, if I were to try to think some of these things over again, I could imagine Denmark's embassies becoming more active in this area. But I would like us to do it in a way where we said that what is Greenland needs when it comes to attracting investment, and where is it that Denmark also has some needs and some interests? After all, we also have interests and a private sector that would like to be involved. Could we then go out and do some projects together out there and use our embassies for it, so not that everyone should be joint projects, but that we are trying to think our common interests and respective standings in, and that therefore we are not just thinking that now we have an embassy, so now there must be a special section that only deals with Greenland, and a special section that only handles the Faroe Islands. We should perhaps try to think it together precisely because there are some synergies in it. I remember when Mrs. Aleqa Hammond and I were in New York. Mrs Hammond was the chairman of the self-government at the time, and we shared the seat of the great conference on the rights of indigenous peoples. I've never had as many comments on a stunt as what we did over there in New York, but we thought it just together instead of thinking it separately. This is almost what makes the greatest impression out there when it is possible to do so, but of course Greenland and the Faroe Islands and Denmark are also strengthening separately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520115655	Mrs Aleqa Hammond for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520115657	Greenland already has foreign policy negotiating powers in areas which have already been repatriated, but in areas which have not been repatriated, we are totally dependent on Danish foreign policy, i.e. that it also represents Greenland's interests. We have now seen the Taksøe report, which points out that Danish interests must be at the heart of future work in the Arctic policy. Greenlandic interests are not mentioned in the report. What does the rapporteur have to say about foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520115733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520115734	Thank you for the question. I would recommend perhaps the questioner to read the last radical defence issue, where we are certainly doing a great deal to say that when we come to the defence settlement this autumn, one of the three points that we would like to attach really high priority is that there is practical preparedness; that is environmental monitoring; that is all we have, I would have almost said, and should try to monitor and keep track of together up there. This is incredibly important. I think that, when I was a minister and also afterwards, I have said very explicitly how important Greenland and the Faroe Islands are for Danish foreign policy and for Danish strength in our foreign policy. And I agree with that, and we could use it better than we do today, and also more together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520115822	Sir. Søren Espersen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520115825	Thanks to the radical rapporteur because he was just about to vote in favour of it is like getting an ice cream promise, and then you don't get it anyway. But thank you for that; it is always some way along the way. Sir. Martin Lidegaard talks about thinking together, but isn't the problem that they in Greenland think separately? Is it not there that we are currently putting our energy into independence rather than trying to put structural order in our own house? Isn't that the problem? So much energy has been tied up to independence that all the boring everyday problems that have to create a society are forgotten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520115909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520115910	Actually, I don't think it's that simple. I think it is the case that Greenland is a society in development, just as Denmark is. And there have been currents in Greenland, which had a very narrow focus on Greenland's own best interests, but fortunately there are also political currents in Greenland that think in larger overalls, just as we in Denmark have parties that think a lot in Denmark's best interests and not in larger overalls, but we also have some who think a little beyond the level of their own close gardens. In this way I would say that there are forces in Greenland, and as I experience it also strong forces that want a stronger community, of course also on their own terms, and a stronger cooperation with Denmark, as long as you are also master of your own house. These are the forces with which we must stimulate and try to support and cooperate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120005	Sir. Søren Espersen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120007	Well, well, well, sir. Martin Lidegaard says that Greenland is in development. That is not what is apparent from various serious reports. It seems like a country that doesn't have any special structural • what should I say about how it can change. So the part of it, namely that Greenland is in a development, sounds positive and good, but it is not my impression if you look at Greenland's economy. I also think it is essential that we go to international credit markets and that we go out and attract investors. This can also be done on reasonable terms, because Denmark is somehow supposed to be behind it. If we didn't do it anymore, I'd like to see the possibility of getting into the international credit market. I think that would be an impossibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120054	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120055	When I talk about development, I am talking about a political development. Unfortunately, I agree that economic development is going far too slowly. This is a huge challenge which also affects social conditions, the opportunities for job creation and, at the very least, the possibility of lifting also the outlying areas of Greenland. So I do not want to ignore the challenges that are currently facing me. But we should not ignore the potentials either. I therefore believe that the best way to do this is by 1) recognising the strong desire for increased autonomy in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, 2) holding to the fact that the best way of approaching greater economic autonomy is through economic development, and the best way of achieving economic development is, among other things, through economic development. through stronger cooperation with Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120146	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120148	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good and also visionary speech. We've had several of them today. Thank you, too, for your critical remarks. They are also welcome. There are many of us who are going to take them to us. I very much agree with the premise that there is no contradiction between autonomy and community. It is sometimes set up as a contradiction. It's not. It's a lot of times one and the same thing. If I look at it historically, it was that in the Faroe Islands you got the home government law, something that was said for many years by the official work in Denmark was a breach of the constitution, and it was said that it could not be done. You did it anyway. It strengthened the Faroe Islands, and it strengthened the community. For 17 years it was said that the underground could not be handed over because it was a breach of the constitution. You did it. It strengthened the community, and it strengthened the Faroe Islands. A small example is the church of the people. After all, it must be regulated by parliamentary law, and it could not be taken over. That would be a violation of the Constitution. You did it. It strengthened the community, and it strengthened the Faroe Islands. So it is very true that autonomy and the community complement each other. Then, of course, there are some things that only strengthen a community: citizenship, the banking system, the whole money system and so on. It only strengthens the community. So sometimes it strengthens the Faroe Islands and the community that you have things together, and sometimes it strengthens the community that you have it separately. Now the rapporteur, who was also Minister for Foreign Affairs, said that it is a force for foreign policy that the Minister for Foreign Affairs represents the entire Commonwealth. Can the rapporteur give some concrete examples of where he, as Foreign Minister, saw that it was a strength to represent the whole Kingdom community and not just Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120331	I don't think I can think of it. It is possible that if I had a little more time, I could remember that in such a very specific case there was something that Denmark got through, if I may say so, that we would not otherwise have had. But I would like to put it this way: when you sit at international meetings, for example. The European Union for Councils of Ministers, it is not always at every meeting that one's colleagues listen very, very carefully to what the small country Denmark says, because it is not in all areas, and it matters very much what Denmark says. But there are some areas where there is really listening when Denmark speaks. Some of those areas are associated with the Arctic fishing, raw materials, in other words, everything where, by virtue of the Kingdom community, we are a great power. After all, we are the only country in the world that is part of both the Arctic Council, the EU, part of the Commonwealth, it is NATO. And so we're the only country that like me thinks these things across all the different alliances and communities and formats. It therefore offers great opportunities for foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120439	We'll move on to the question line with Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120446	The good thing about the last few presentations is that they also point out the important thing at least what I think is important: the strength of diversity, not the strength of alignment. I think that's the core, and that's where I think Mr. Martin Lidegaard is right in saying that when we think about the future, it is precisely important to say that there are three independent entities in a community and that the differences that may exist, especially the desire for independence, can be a strength and not a restriction. So thank you for that. I also agree with the second remark that it would perhaps be appropriate for the parties to pull themselves together and do a little more thorough work than that contained in these proposals for adoption. It is a little deliberate, therefore, that I have tabled a proposal for adoption at all, because I think it is a pity to be told that this is the case, since we could have negotiated something which I think could have assembled virtually all of the Parliamentary Chamber. I'd like to know if Mr. Kim is here. Martin Lidegaard cannot imagine a kingdom community with three independent countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120555	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120556	This is not impossible in a very long-term scenario, but it requires, in addition to a strong desire from the countries concerned, an economic capacity which is not entirely present. And then I guess it's my analysis, and it's not my analysis that counts here, because that's what Greenland and the Faroe Islands might want in due course... that there's no doubt that the day when one of them says that they want to go their own way, there won't be a great sadness, at least not on my part, because it won't be something Denmark will stand in the way of. I am not sure that this will happen, because I believe that, in addition to the more economic aspect, there are also some cooperation in a number of other areas where there are some very low-practical and cultural benefits to unite. It is in the field of education and in a wide range of areas of negotiation that are of great importance to these countries where a common administration actually makes a difference. But I cannot rule out the possibility that there may be a situation in which it is disregarded in favour of gaining full autonomy. But I do not see it as I know Greenland and the Faroe Islands, but it is Greenland and the Faroe Islands who decide it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120720	Sir. Christian Juhl for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120722	When the dream of independence is a driving force, you can imagine good cooperation. We have a super collaboration in the Nordic Council with independent countries, but where Greenland and the Faroe Islands and their politicians also play an active part in our debates. There we have immense benefits from precisely the diversity that we have. There is also a great deal that brings us together, but there are also many different areas where we use each other's good ideas and each other's strengths. It is not only in the economic field, it is also in education, culture and so on. So I could now easily imagine a renewed Kingdom community, including with independent nations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120803	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120804	You can do that. One of the costs is, of course, that you get a relatively large administration for a relatively small population, and it is difficult to support it as an independent country, almost regardless of who you are and where you are. It is also one of the challenges involved. We know that from Denmark too. We're kind of a small country, too. We're just a little bit bigger than the other parts of the Kingdom community. It is a challenge that must be dealt with in one way or another, and if you have complete autonomy, it requires everything else to be equal, that everyone has a full administration, which you then work together from. In principle, this can be done, but there is also a price that you pay, I think, for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120848	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520120849	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I think this is an interesting approach taken by the Radical Left, but also by the former rapporteur. They are enormously positive, compared to not only thinking about what is in it for Denmark, when we talk about the kingdom community, but what is in it for all of us. And I agree with the rapporteur when he says this: in relation to an Arctic investment fund, it is also about the fact that if Greenland is stronger, everything else is also stronger. I think that is a very good approach to it. But I couldn't help but think about the theorem where you mention that there are some Greenlandic politicians who believe that the solution to everything in Greenland is to separate themselves from Denmark. I also think it is important to say that this is not how I see it. It may be that this is so in parts of Greenlandic politics, but it is also very important to say that from my perspective there is a greater realism in Greenlandic politics, and I also think that Greenlandic policy is appropriate to say that this is the long and tough but very necessary move that we have to take, both in relation to our economy, but also to a great extent to the human resources that are there in Greenland. So I think it is important to nuance that debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121001	I would remind you that we do not use direct indictments in the Folketing. Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121006	I agree, however, that the political debate is evolving and has also developed. This is true both in Greenland, in the Faroe Islands and in Denmark. I could have put that criticism on myself too. I also think that there is a theme in Danish politics that is allowed to fill an incredible amount in relation to which other challenges we face and have to face. What I then say is that sometimes, when I visit good friends in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and when I have a discussion with them, and when I turn on the radio or open the newspaper, I just sometimes think that I have done so, that it is amazing, so much it takes from the political debate; it is incredible, so much energy is put into it. I also have that idea at home sometimes about some of the debates we have. So sometimes, I think, they can be a little self-winding. But you can also get over it, that it is not something that is static, that is to say it is one way for 50 years. Fortunately, this is constantly evolving. I think that sometimes it takes up a lot in relation to what, for example, is going to happen. in Greenland is one of the opportunities to go after and challenges to struggle with otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121118	Does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen wish to make another brief comment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121120	Thank you very much. The rapporteur also speaks of the various texts for adoption which are before us in this debate by the Community, and one of them is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Søren Espersen, and it is of course about thinking about the different parliaments, but also the different governments, in terms of how a construction could look forward-looking. I really think that there are some of the things that are interesting. It may not be a word representation of the text of adoption, but that is how it is interpreted with me. I really think it might be interesting to think about the parliaments here, in other words to have closer cooperation between parliaments on what the Kingdom Community will look like in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121203	But I think that is a fantastic outstretched hand from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, whom I would very much like to accept, and which I imagine there are several other parties who would also like to accept. So I would at least just sign for that and say that I think it might be exciting that we sat down and tried to see whether we could agree in this Parliament on a few steps further, because I think there are potentials, but also a need for us to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121234	Sir. Magni Arge for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121237	Thank you. I also thought it was an exciting speech and a good speech. I also think that there have been visionary thoughts on the subject. I also think it is possible to have a much more constructive political debate and perhaps also some satisfactory cooperation as a result of it after some time, if the premise is not the single state of Denmark, which is only about maintaining power, if I may say so, over the Faroe Islands and Greenland, but, on the contrary, if it is about visions and challenges for future life and about the autonomy of both the economy and our lives in the Faroese and Greenlandic communities. I have a specific question, and it's about your time as Secretary of State. Is it a viable way of thinking about drawing a distinction between security policy aspects and more trade policy aspects, for example? an independent Faroese and Greenlandic representation in international fora, which has proved to be very difficult to achieve?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121344	This is really a very wide-ranging question. I understand that, but as far as trade policy is concerned, the issue is, of course, complicated by the fact that Denmark has surrendered its competence to the European Union. In other words, we form part of a community in which we negotiate market access and trade agreements through the European Union, in which neither Greenland nor the Faroe Islands are involved. In other words, in the whole area of joint trade promotion, joint export promotions, all such things I could see a considerably more structured and greater cooperation and with greater involvement of the different interests that the Faroe Islands and Greenland might have. However, when it comes to the substance of the agreement, it can be said that the content of the individual bilateral and multilateral agreements is a complex issue. I would not rule out the possibility of looking at it, but it is not quite easy because we have delivered, if I may say so, our negotiating rights. In order to be stronger with the rest of the world, we have negotiated through the European Union, which means that we cannot simply make agreements other than those made by the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121458	Would you like to make a second brief comment? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121502	But does it not make it clear that there are quite large opposing interests between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, precisely because Denmark is part of the EU and we are outside?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121515	We have, of course, had an example of the contradiction, but I would venture the claim that we have also had examples that the strength of Denmark's membership of the European Union has been able to give the Faroe Islands and Greenland some advantages that could not otherwise have been gained. I would also say that and I think I will be able to prove that there are examples that Denmark has kicked the door into the EU on behalf of the Faroe Islands and Greenland. And that would have been hard to do without us having had the Kingdom community and the community to do it with. Well, it's been a ram in, if I may say so, sometimes. So there may well be negative examples, but there can also be very positive examples of what the Kingdom community is doing with purely commercial policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121558	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520121615	We are privileged when three small nations have succeeded in enriching each other in the Kingdom community. One nation is larger than the others, but on an international scale it must be said that these are three small peoples, and that may in fact be the reason why the community is so strong and that it is to the benefit and pleasure of all equally entitled parties.A fine little gesture is, by the way, the new flag days despite the rather quirky course up to it. Our three nations face quite different challenges, but one of the common tasks is mutual help for increased autonomy or possible autonomy for the Faroe Islands and Greenland. The budgetary problems in the Faroe Islands are the Faroese's own problem, which they have then chosen to make more difficult by means of a reactionary tax policy. It is their own headache, but especially a headache that ends with the low-paid and the poorest. On the other hand, following cultural and valuable thaws against homosexuals and access to abortion is very uplifting. SF wishes every success to the progressive, modern-minded people in the Faroe Islands. You take part in a long, hard fight against darkened thoughts, but so much bigger is the farm on the day when homosexuals also in the Faroe Islands are accepted and recognized. Let LGBT's colorful tab also move in the Faroe Islands. Greenland is faced every day with massive problems in relation to children and young people who grow up in insecure conditions. It is Greenland's own responsibility, but it makes a strong impression, and Denmark should provide help if desired from Greenland. In relation to the debate on possible mining in the Kvanefjeldet, I would say. Urani naamik. And again, thumbs up to IA's battle against mining in Greenland. The extraction of uranium raises a wide range of problems, ranging from pollution of the vicinity to the uncertainty of exports, and then basically it is about supplying raw materials to an energy form that has no future. Leave the uranium in the mountain. Nuclear power no thanks. Urani naamik. Regardless of differences and disagreements, we believe in the SF that we are reaching further in the Kingdom community than we would do separately. We've had a long story together, and now let's use the best of it to move on together. Then I would like to make a few comments on the progress of this debate. I think it is a pity that not enough was done to bring together the parties behind a joint proposal for adoption. It was as if the work on the texts only really got out of hand yesterday, and the mail exchange continued until midnight. It's just not good enough. SF would very much like to participate in a broad adoption. It deserves the Community, but it therefore requires the necessary time and time to be spent, and I am fully aware of the fact that the chairman of the Greenland Committee, Mr. Marcus Knuth, is very busy and should also take part yesterday in a television debate on certain very important and urgent problems, but I do not understand that the tasks relating to this debate have not been prioritised. With an alert committee chairman, several parties could have been behind the proposal for adoption. In other words, with all the kindness that I am now able to mobilise, I would like to call on you, Mr President. Marcus Knuth to resign as chairman of the Greenland Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122023	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122030	Thank you very much for your contribution and thank you for your support for IA's work on uranium extraction in Greenland. I would like to make it clear that we are not against mining in Greenland, but we are against the extraction of uranium, so that is just a small clarification. Then I just want to say [It's spoken in Greenlandic] you're good at speaking Greenlandic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122054	It can only be answered with qujanaq
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122056	We're still not using away direct indictment in the Assembly Hall. Would you like to make a second brief comment? No. I can see that, sir. Søren Espersen has signed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122105	I'm gonna call on Mr. Simpson. Marcus Knuth to become chairman of the Greenland Committee. I think it is intolerable that Mr. Karsten Hønge in this way, in public, is explaining how things are connected when you agree on proposals for adoption. This is something that takes place in a confidential circle where there are different possibilities of joining. If it is then to be exposed afterwards and even mentioned here from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament, Mr. Marcus Knuth was so rude to go on TV last night, so I think it defies any description. I think it's obscene.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122141	It could have been done 1 week ago or 14 days ago. Well, I didn't say anything about what's in those e-mails, I just said that I think it's a bad situation when, among other things. SF would like to participate in a joint adoption. I certainly expected it to be something we were going to participate in. Until a day ago, I expected that we would of course participate for the benefit of the Kingdom community; we would like to be part of the circle of parties which are behind a joint vote. I am very surprised that there was no better grip on the situation, and since it is the chairman of the Greenland Committee who has been in favour of it, I think it is reasonable to correct the criticism over where it should be corrected. He was, if I may say so, gangbays for this process, and it didn't succeed. And this was not due to a lack of willingness from parties, at least not from my party, but simply a lack of priority for the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122222	Sir. Søren Espersen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122225	I don't know how it worked. In this process I have had no difficulty in getting in touch with those I wanted, even those who certainly did not agree with our things. I just wanted to ask you if Mr. Cole... Karsten Hønge regrets that he stands here from Parliament's platform and reveals how a normal political debate takes place at Christiansborg, namely, closed doors, where you have the opportunity to test things in relation to each other. Does he regret it, or is it just that something has to happen to SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122258	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122258-2	This is about SF wanting to be part of the circle that adopts a text, and I do not think we were given any reasonable opportunity to do so. It is not a task that was given priority; that task could have been put in place a week ago. It didn't really advance until a few days ago. I have not exposed anything at all about what was in the e-mails; I have disclosed nothing at all but that it is untenable that there is no better grasp of the situation we have had here. There is no need to divide the parties about something we might as well be gathered around. That's kind of my starting point. I am disappointed that there has been no better grip on it. You could have found something with most parties, possibly without the Danish People's Party, we have seen that before, but I think that the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties could have been gathered together for a joint adoption text.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122334	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122336	Thank you. I really appreciate it when you don't have the fear of touch and say things quite as you mean them. I think that is good for the debate. But then I must also say that I think it is equally harsh when the rapporteur says that the forces in the Faroe Islands, which have been opposed to changing the marriage law, are darkened, medieval forces. They have a political attitude and there are many around the world who have that attitude. There has been a great battle for marriage law in many, many countries. After all, it was only changed in Finland a few weeks ago. But then I can tell you that it has also been changed in the Faroe Islands. On April 29th, the Marriage Act was amended to allow homosexuals to marry in the Faroe Islands. The law just has to go around the Folketing first, because it's a common matter. This is an example of the fact that, although it is a common matter, the Danish side has been waiting for a Faroese debate. Once that debate has ended and a decision has been taken, you change the law as you wish in the Faroe Islands. This is an example of very good cooperation in the Kingdom community. But it was just the information that it has been changed in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122443	I am so aware of this, and I am very pleased that this step has been taken. But now homosexual relationships are much more than the right to marry. It is the general status, acceptance and recognition in everyday life in workplaces, in families and elsewhere where it must also be a common thing in the Faroe Islands that you do not have to hide and be embarrassed that you are gay. And there's still some way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122508	We go further in the series of brief remarks, and that is Mrs Aleqa Hammond for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122516	Since Greenland has introduced self-government and Greenland has completely taken the raw material area as a responsibility from Denmark, it is Greenland's Inatsisartut and Naalakersuisut, which are jointly the legislative and executive power in the field of raw materials, also on the question of uranium. And Greenland is governed democratically in the same way as in Denmark. It is the majority that decides what will be given special attention in terms of business development and future economic development. Since the SF's rapporteur says so clearly that one is against uranium extraction or that uranium is taken out of the ground at all, does the SF therefore believe that the right to decide its own raw materials in Greenland should be revoked?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122611-2	No, I think this debate is made up of two things. One is the attitude towards uranium, and the other is who will then make the final decision. And there we have made it clear in the past that we are so opposed to the extraction of uranium in Greenland, but that we recognise that it is a decision that has to be taken in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122628	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122629	After all, we are discussing two legislative proposals here in the Danish Parliament which deal with uranium mining and exports from Greenland and on which we are about to submit a report. In this context, I would like to say that there is great support for those legislative proposals and that they appear to be adopted. Once these legislative proposals have been adopted, will the SF's rapporteur himself come up and say that this is a democratically adopted provision and that it is fully respected?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122705-2	Yes, but in a democracy we can have different opinions and at the same time recognise and respect that it is the democratic process. I am 100% opposed both before and after decisions in Greenland to breaking uranium in Kvanefjeld. But I can at the same time acknowledge that in Greenland there is a majority to do so. It's two different things, isn't it? That is the attitude to the very substance of it and the attitude to the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122730	The next brief remark is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122734	Thank you. I can agree with you, sir. Søren Espersen's remarks about Mr. Karsten Hønge's strange outcome against the chairman of the Greenland Committee, and I regret that Mr. Karsten Hønge then today must settle for the political rapporteur of the Left instead of our Greenland rapporteur, chairman of the committee. Sir. Karsten Hønge complains or apologises that the chairman of the committee has not succeeded in bringing together enough parties for a decision. At the same time, the rapporteur then says that it is not a problem that the Danish People's Party, which is, however, the second largest party in this Parliament, should not be involved. It is a rather strange approach to have, as long as nine parties have succeeded in supporting this proposal for adoption, including three out of four of the North Atlantic. Is this not a very good place to start in the North Atlantic with such a proposal for adoption? Is it not very appropriate to have a proposal for adoption, supported by three-quarters of the North Atlantic parties, instead of the rapporteur's proposal for adoption, which none of them supports?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122845	Yes, sir. I'll give you that. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is absolutely right. So, as a starting point, it is a good proposal that lies, and as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen can also see the detail that separates the two proposals. These are simply details, and I am sure that it would have been resolved with sufficient accommodation and availability. But some things have simply arisen at the last minute with phrases and phrases that were not on the table a few days ago. That's what this is about. So, of course, we would have been able to figure something out. I would have liked to see the Danish People's Party participate. As I read the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party, it is also an okay proposal. The reason I made that comment is that in other situations you have experienced the Danish People's Party need to have their own independent markings. I also think that the proposal for adoption by the Danish People's Party is almost okay, so perhaps we could have included them in the group in this context too. The reason why I made that remark was that, at other times, there has been a need to have some independent statements about Greenland. Perhaps, however, it would have been possible to bring the whole parliament together if the task had been given sufficient priority from the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122943	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122945	I understand the rapporteur's answer to that, that it does not really care what three-quarters of the North Atlantic mandates think is the right approach to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520122956	For us, what the North Atlantic mandates mean is very important. We would have liked to have found a compromise, and here we can see that we could have done so. Otherwise, if the task was prioritized from the beginning, it would in all likelihood have been possible to have a proposal for adoption that had meant all the parties, possibly also the Danish People's Party. In any case, it can be said that with sufficient diligence or prioritising of the task we would have been part of it as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520123019	The last to a brief remark is Mrs Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520123023	Thank you. You're just getting the blood flow going again during this discussion. But I understand that Mr. Karsten Hønge is developing a completely new political thesis, which is about overthrowing people, and apparently preferably when they are not present. So I would just like to hear, out of curiosity, whether the rapporteur had informed the chairman of the Greenland Committee of this request before it is tabled here from the parliamentary platform in a situation in which the chairman of the Greenland Committee is actually not himself present.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520123050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520123051	I haven't had a chance to talk to Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth, so no, I haven't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520123056	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520123101	I can tell you that we are living in an age in which, for example, we live. The text exists and I assume that the rapporteur, even before he took the floor, had found that the President was not present. Then I want to know whether this is the way the SF will put its strategy forward in future when it comes to agreements on opinions and so on. Because that is something that we, as parties, have to take stock of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520123123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520123123-2	Now I do not want to expose even more of the process that has been up to this, because I can hear that you are not allowed to do so. But now that Mrs Mette Bock is just pointing to text messages, I can say that the last text I sent to Mr Bock. Marcus Knuth, was at 2:00 a.m. 07.30 this morning.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520123137	No one has asked for brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report. Rasmus Jarlov for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520123149	Thank you. I'd like to say about Mr. Karsten Hønge's last comment that I think it's a lot worse nonsense to go up on the high nails here and actually invite the President to resign because of a very, very banal discussion that has been on e-mail in the last few days. I am completely surprised that such a dramatic card is being pulled out of the blue without any consultation with the President. I will say nothing more about it, because the subject here is more important than that kind of snag. I would like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for an excellent speech. I think that the Prime Minister reveals a very great deal of knowledge about the conditions in the Kingdom community and about the feelings and different views within the Kingdom community. The Conservative People's Party is also very much in favour of the Kingdom community. We think it is very important that we keep it. It is an historic community that goes back more than 600 years. The Faroe Islands and Greenland are not Denmark. The Faroe Islands are the Faroe Islands and Greenland is Greenland. But we belong together, and even though we are three countries, we are also a country. Disbanding the Kingdom would be like cutting one's body in half. The only way to ensure that the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark stay in the Kingdom is to ensure that all three countries see it as an advantage. The Kingdom is voluntary. It only exists because all three countries want to be together. All three countries have the opportunity to withdraw from the Community, and that will also happen if the peoples so wish. That is why we must work with popular support for the Kingdom community. As a Danish politician, I feel primarily committed to working with popular support in Denmark. I believe that there is a great deal of work ahead of us. The Danes are far too ignorant of the Faroe Islands, Greenland and the Commonwealth. Greenlanders and cousins, who are a lot in Denmark, meet incredibly stupid questions when they are down here. Can you drive up there, what language they speak, etc.? This is the kind of thing that reveals an abyssed ignorance. It is very demotivating for Faroese and Greenlanders to be met by such ignorance because ignorance radiates indifference. We must do better on the Danish side, and initiatives must also be taken to improve public education. Here both the primary school and the media can do much more to raise the level of knowledge in Denmark. From the Danish side we must also be better at ensuring that the Faroe Islands and Greenland feel involved in the management of the kingdom. It must not feel as if Denmark controls Greenland and the Faroe Islands. That is not the meaning of the Kingdom community. We have a common realm that we rule together. This does not mean, however, that the Home Government and Home Government of the Faroe Islands and Greenland must be equal to the Folketing when Denmark goes to war for example. This is not how our constitution is built. In the Kingdom Community, in the Constitution of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Folketing is the body where we make such decisions. That's what we've chosen. You could have chosen it differently. The Faroe Islands and Greenland could have chosen it differently. They could choose to have their own security and foreign policy, be independent countries, but that is not what we have chosen. We have a structure according to which the Folketing makes decisions on security and foreign policy. Here the Faroe Islands and Greenland are represented through their members of parliament, and this is where the voices of the Faroe Islands and Greenland can be heard. By the way, I think that the Faroese and Greenlandic MPs are doing an excellent job. I also think that during this parliamentary period I have seen a great deal of activity in these areas, and I am very pleased that the Faroese and Greenlandic MPs are really active in those areas where we have a common policy in the Kingdom Community, where the Folketing is the supreme body. I also think it is important in this context that we should then also have the Faroese and Greenlandic members of parliament fully involved in the areas which are precisely common affairs. I am thinking in particular of the forthcoming defence settlement. I think it would be natural for us to respond to the wishes of the Greenlandic and Faroese members of parliament to bring them into a future defence settlement. Of course, for the Greenlandic and Faroese parties it must be on the same terms as for all other parties. Of course, this requires agreement. No one can be guaranteed in advance that they can enter into a settlement. This requires that they make no demands to which the other parties cannot agree. It also requires that we be prepared to follow the rules of conciliation that exist. You can't run around pulling the veto card in time and prematurely obstructing a whole lot of things. However, in the same way as for everyone else, the offer to be included in this kind of conciliation should at least be made available. Then I would like to say something about the European Union's fisheries policy. I myself have just given priority to the Community of the Kingdom over the European Union, in that, at the moment, there is also a meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, where I am also a member. I have chosen to be down here instead, because I think that the Commonwealth is more important than the European Union, especially when you have such an important debate as we are having right now. It must also be the case that Denmark is fighting more for the interests of Greenland and the Faroe Islands vis-à-vis the European Union. I think this situation has been unsightly. It has appeared from the Faroe Islands and Greenland that Denmark has been more interested in the EU than in the Kingdom Community. It can't be like that, I think. I know that this is a very, very difficult situation for the Danish Government. There are a lot of treaties and obligations that must be taken into account, and I do not know the law in all. But it is certainly important that it is clear that we are defending the interests of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Because when we have this community, it is also important that Greenland and the Faroe Islands experience that the Danish government is not only Danish government, but is actually the government of the whole Kingdom community in the areas that belong to the Kingdom Community. I think that we in Denmark could do better. So I actually think there is a lot we can do better on the Danish side. I don't want to talk much about what better can be done by the Faroe Islands and Greenland, because it's not really my table. You have to hear something more about this, since it will now be the turn of the Faroese and Greenlandic members of parliament. But I think that we in Denmark have a special obligation to make sure that the Faroe Islands and Greenland feel welcome, feel that they have their interests taken care of, and also meet with the equality that we have in our kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520123912	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520123917	I'm thinking about the defense thing. If Greenland and the Faroe Islands wanted to be heard in the discussion on Danish defence policy, it would not be unnatural if you were thinking about all the themes that are, for example. The Arctic. We may then disagree as to whether it is right or wrong, but the defence is not only more or less successful wars in the Middle East, in Afghanistan etc., it is also all the effort that has to be made around Greenland, in the Arctic, in the Faroe Islands, etc. I think it is a completely legal view to have that you want to have an influence on it and may not vote for the wars in the Middle East. It should be possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124014	Well, it is possible for the Faroese and Greenlanders to make their position known in relation to what they think of the wars that Denmark joins, in that their MPs have the right to vote in this Chamber. This is primarily where one can make one's resistance known. I do not see the reason why the Faroe Islands and Greenland should be a party, as such having a special status when we go to war. In fact, I think that's where Mr. Søren Espersen said earlier that it is relevant to say that there is of course no contribution to the defence of the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and therefore to have a right of veto is not reasonable. However, I think that those Members of Parliament who are involved in deciding on security and foreign policy should make themselves known if they disagree with the decisions that are being taken and then, of course, a great deal will be listened to. In relation to the Arctic, it is very natural that we talk to the Greenland Government and the Greenland Parliament, because the Arctic so directly deals with matters in Greenland. And there it is also quite natural to have a consultation process in which we talk to the authorities up there and the elected representatives from up there. At the same time, however, it is also important that Greenlandic MPs have the opportunity to participate in defence reconciliations where matters are being negotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124145	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124148	I think it might be better to rethink the way we make defence reconciliations. After all, this is the only ministerial area where there is virtually nothing but a great deal of conciliation. It has annoyed us in the Enhedslisten because there are parts of the defense that we like, and there are a lot that we do not like. And that means that it is quite impossible if you do not take the whole package. Then you can stand outside and yell out loud and yell at the government, but you don't have a chance to get in and e.g. influence on e.g. the preparedness and what we might think would be sensible to use parts of the defense for. One could, of course, do as in other ministries and divide up the defence settlement, so there was a more dynamic work with the area, instead of a solidly-knitted group doing it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124237	I'm sure you could. We now have an emergency settlement that is not the same as a defence settlement. So it's partly divided. But I'm sure you could. Actually, I don't know what the history is for. It is also a little off the subject here in relation to the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124255	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124258	Thank you. And thank you for a fine speech, enough once. When it comes to defence policy, I do not think anyone has called for the Faroe Islands to have a right of veto. Well, that would be completely unreasonable, that is clear. But what I want is for there to be somewhere in the resolution whether the Faroe Islands back up or not. For when the kingdom becomes a warrior, it is the whole kingdom that becomes a warrior, including the Faroe Islands, formally. And there are also quite a few Faroese soldiers in the Danish army. Therefore, we think it would be appropriate if it were stated whether this was done with support or not with support from the Faroe Islands. That's what the idea has been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124344	Thanks for the clarification. That is also how I have perceived the desire. It may be that I did not put it correctly, but I am in favour of that being what is wanted. I therefore believe that it is in the basis for the decision whether or not the Faroe Islands and Greenland are in agreement, in that Mr. Sjúrður Skaale has the right to vote in the Folketing and thus has the opportunity to express the Faroese position on the subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124410	The second brief remark to Mr Beazley. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124413	Thank you. Then I have another question. The rapporteur spoke about the European Union and the Constitution. The EU is a reality and Denmark is part of the EU, while Greenland and the Faroe Islands are not part of it. And the Constitution is the framework, the rapporteur also said. The Constitution is the framework of what you can and cannot do. It describes like the Kingdom community. But now it was so that in 2013-2014 the Faroe Islands were sanctioned by the EU, including by Denmark, because, as they said, the Faroe Islands did not comply with their obligations under international law. Does the rapporteur think that a single state can have two different obligations under international law? Does the rapporteur think that it can be said that Denmark is a single state when Denmark sanctions part of Denmark? Can one then still say that Denmark is the unitary state which is described in the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124502	I think it is a mess that part of the kingdom of Denmark sanctions another part of the kingdom of Denmark. It turns in me and I think it is utterly hopeless that we can face such a situation. I must then also acknowledge that it is quite complicated law in relation to what kind of different obligations we have. That is why I am not going to be too much a judge of whether or not we are a unitary state and what else lies in legal obligations and constitutional concepts. I simply do not know enough about that. I can only say that I have a deep reluctance that we should be in this situation and that our sympathy should lie with the Faroe Islands and not with the European Union in that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124545	Then it's mr. Magni Arge to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124549	It is about this that Denmark as a warring power may present itself as the Kingdom of Denmark and raise the Faroese flag over the embassy in Damascus while bombing Aleppo. I think it would be very appropriate if the Faroese Parliament had also given its opinion and said whether military action of this kind was now supported or not. We must remember that in 2003 the Faroese Parliament opposed the involvement in the war effort in Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124624	I think it is possible to take Faroese feelings into account when it comes to raising the Faroese flag. I do not think we should do that on the Danish side if there is a reluctance on the Faroese side as to where the flag is raised. I think it would be good behavior not to. But the matter here is very clear that security policy and foreign policy belong in the Commonwealth and in the Danish Parliament, and there is the fact that the Faroe Islands have influence through the Faroese members of parliament, and then you cannot invent an obligation that we then have to talk to the Faroese Government as well. In other words, it is possible to do so for reasons of courtesy and so on, I would not object to that, but the Constitution is clear in the area of where it is that the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124722	- Is that what you're going to do? Magni Arge have a second brief remark? No. We shall now proceed to Mrs Aleqa Hammond for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124728	It was mentioned earlier that since Greenland does not contribute militarily, it was not so important to ask Greenland what Greenland thought about Denmark going to war on behalf of the whole kingdom. I do not think it is appropriate to use this comparison because we do not have military service and we do not have military service at home, that we do not have to be involved. After all, we are a Kingdom Community, and the Kingdom Community is committed to close cooperation and common understanding of the international commitments undertaken by the Danish Government on behalf of the realm, since we do not have foreign and security policy competence in this area. However, Greenland has a foreign department which also deals with security issues on behalf of the Kingdom Community, which should be involved, and the Greenland Parliament, Inatsisartut, has a committee on foreign and security policy, and they are all interested in what Denmark is taking on in areas where we do not have competence. That is why I think that if we want to strengthen the Community and the common understanding on such a serious issue, it would be perfectly natural for us to approach each other and let each other know what is best for all of us without having to demand a right of veto.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124842	I always think that Greenland should be given the opportunity to make its position known. I think that perhaps the Danish side has considered that the Greenlandic interests in Syria and Iraq etc. is not so huge, so it has been estimated that there was no need to hear Greenland particularly in connection with these wars. I think it is most natural to hear Greenland when it comes to matters that are important to Greenland, and that must be done. You have to do much more than you do today. In other words, when it comes to all the facts such as fishing, whaling, everything else that might have Greenlandic interest, one must of course get the knowledge, the views, the competences that Greenland has, because very often it is primarily Greenland's interests that we take care of. However, in relation to the wars in the Middle East, I may find it difficult to see the particular Greenlandic views, but if there are some, and I cannot rule that out, I think they should certainly be made known and they should be listened to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124958	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520124959	There are areas which Denmark is responsible for in the field of foreign and security policy where Greenland does not have the direct power to participate, and if we do not get involved under the Itilleq Declaration, it is very difficult for Greenland to make its own views to the countries with which Denmark cooperates. Greenland does not always have the same interests as Denmark, even when it comes to foreign policy, but the more important it is that we have common ground when Greenland is in many ways with withdrawal. Because we cooperate directly with countries represented in the Arctic Council working groups and negotiate fish and whales and the like, and those countries also look very much at what Denmark does of foreign and security policy measures that can hit us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520125041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520125043	I did not hear much of a question in it, but I agree that of course there are some important Greenlandic interests, also sometimes special interests, in relation to what one can have from Danish interests in very many cases, and there I think we should do much more to involve Greenland as much as we possibly can. So, it is important that Greenland really feels that Denmark is fighting for Greenland's interests. And we can do better on the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520125114	Sir. Søren Espersen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520125117	I would like to say that I share the Conservative rapporteur's wish that the Greenlandic and Faroese members of the Folketing should become part of the defence committee. I think that would be quite excellent, and I cannot really understand why that option has not been tried in the past. After all, this is not something that the government, or the conciliation parties, are keeping them out of when you come forward with joy at the first meeting of the conciliation circle. And then there are the duties that go with it. One of the things that I am very concerned about should and should also be done by Greenland and the Faroe Islands, if you are to be more involved in defence policy, is that you introduce military service into the two areas. What is the position of the Conservative rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520125201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520125202	I am reluctant to support that, and it is simply because I think we should proceed quite cautiously in pushing things down over Greenland and the Faroe Islands that they do not want. If there is a wish, of course I will be very open to it, but I have not heard that. And I think that we in Denmark should be careful that we do not come and push some things through of the character that we do not want. That would be very controversial. It would create a lot of trouble, it would create a lot of resentment towards Denmark, and I find it very difficult to see that the very major drawbacks that would arise from it would be worth such a fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520125244	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520125245	I just think that there should be a link between rights and obligations, that is, that there are obligations to join in a defence settlement and take a joint responsibility for the kingdom's defence, and that there is also the need to have equal rights in relation to the young people in Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I can say that when I was in the Navy for everything, too many years ago, there were a lot of Greenlanders and a lot of forefathers on board the ships. So I do not know what has happened later, whether the will to defend Greenland and the Faroe Islands has disappeared. I don't know. I can only say that I was incredibly happy to see so many people who were there at the time. They also still exist, but in very, very small numbers, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520125329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520125330	I can agree with the principle that there should be equal value. Well, I'll just have to say that, and Mr. Cole knows that. Søren Espersen well that it would be seen as a huge provocation on the Danish side if one started to drive forward with such a requirement. And is it worth it? I don't think so at all. I am very concerned about preserving the Kingdom community. I am more concerned with preserving the Kingdom community and stepping forward cautiously and taking into account the feelings in the Faroe Islands and Greenland than I am with pushing down some perhaps in principle right principles on their heads.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520125410	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520125421	Thank you very much for the floor. In Inuit Ataqatigiit we are pleased that for the third time we have the opportunity to discuss the Kingdom community on the basis of the government's statement. In IA, we believe that it is at least as important to have a debate on the future of the Kingdom Community as it is to discuss a statement which looks back in time. For the Kingdom community is constantly evolving, and it can be said, paradoxically, that the development of the Kingdom community is therefore also the winding-up of the Kingdom community as we see it today. That is why debates such as the one we are discussing today are very important. I usually say that, as a Greenland parliamentarian or as Greenland rapporteur, there are at least 32 rapporteurs, because Denmark has 32 very important areas on behalf of Greenland. It is everything from large-scale policy, such as foreign policy, defence policy and security policy, to the fundamental legal certainty of our circuit courts, our police and our institutions, and to talk about aviation and maritime safety. The Kingdom Community is a community in which there must be respect for the priority, lifting and optimizing of the 32 areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland. Unfortunately, in many areas this is not the case today. In the area of family law, it lags with more than 50-year-old laws, and at the same time the relocation of state jobs threatens the Danish-Greenland agreement on sea maps of Greenland's harsh waters, which cannot now be completed at the agreed time in 2018. We also see that there are still a large number of border barriers and barriers between our countries, as well as a need for a strengthened inclusion of Greenlanders in Denmark and a greater understanding and knowledge of Greenland in Danish society. There is plenty to be done, and in IA we want to work constructively on cross-party work, which is why we have among other things. presented a proposal with a large number of proposals to strengthen the inclusion of Greenlanders in Denmark. On the one hand, the Kingdom of the future must be able to hold a Greenlandic desire for independence and, on the other hand, mutual respect for the community. In the kingdom community of the future, we must, in close dialogue and together, take greater Arctic leadership and play a greater foreign policy role in the Arctic. Greenland's foreign policy role should be developed and built up in the coming years, among others. in terms of sustainable and economic development in the Arctic region. Greenland should be actively involved and involved in all issues relating to the Arctic and Greenland in the Kingdom Community and internationally and, of course, always sitting at the negotiating table. A large majority of the Danish parties voted in favour of the Self-Government Act. There is respect for the people's desire to achieve greater independence, which is something that Inuit Ataqatigiit is concerned with. Greenland's economy is challenged, and the reforms that are on the table in Greenland do not go deep enough. We see that there is increasing inequality in Greenlandic society, unemployment remains high, and this requires increased efforts to create jobs. The unemployment among young people has a special focus for Inuit Ataqatigiit, and we are preoccupied with more Greenlanders getting an education. The Community must be for all and not just for the few. For many, education is also the way out of a negative social heritage and, at the same time, crucial to Greenland's development. We are in Inuit Ataqatigiit interested in creating a sustainable business development, and therefore Inuit Ataqatigiit says no to uranium extraction in Greenland. However, we want to focus on other raw materials projects, because there are certain alternatives. We would also like Greenland to play a foreign policy role and not be represented through others. And I think most of the parties in the Chamber also understand that is a fundamental desire to want to as a people. The increased focus on the Arctic should benefit Greenland in the form of increased business opportunities and a more diversified business effort that can strengthen the Greenlandic economy. Greenland should focus on diversified business development, aiming to increase tourism, launch small raw materials projects, develop fisheries and catch, and develop innovation and entrepreneurship. Greenland is responsible for investment in future business development, but as the world's largest island with a small population, international partnerships are crucial. In 2015, the Danish Government and Naalakkersuisut, the Greenland Government, published an agreement to promote business cooperation. In this respect, it is obvious to set up an Arctic investment fund for which joint efforts could be made. The Taksøe-Jensen report, which was published not long ago, had a basic premise which was about solely defending Danish interests and allowing Denmark to play the role of an Arctic great power. We think this is fundamentally wrong, because Denmark is only an Arctic great power qua Greenland. For Greenland, the Taksøe-Jensen report points out a number of recommendations such as strengthening defence tasks in Greenland, establishing a research hub in Greenland or setting up an Arctic investment fund. All three are interesting suggestions, which are worth a dialogue with Greenland. For it is crucial that Greenland plays a key role in shaping these new initiatives and that the local population is more involved. Among other things: it could be through the establishment of a voluntary preparedness which could help strengthen the defence in Greenland for the benefit of all. An increased focus on Greenland and the Arctic is underlined by the increased importance that Taksøe-Jensen report attaches to the Arctic, but we see it as much when the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, visits Greenland to see the impact of climate change with his own eyes as it did a few days ago. For the temperature increases in the Arctic occur at double speed compared to the rest of the world, and there is a great need for an adaptation plan. Because it's a new reality. This applies not only to the Arctic, but it applies to the whole world that you look at the need for a plan for adapting to the new reality. The European Union has recently published its Arctic strategy, which envisages a more humble approach than the approach we saw when the European Union decided on an EU ban on the sale of sealskins. Despite the fact that there is an inuit exception and a promise that there would be information activities on this exception, there is no funding available to inform EU citizens that seal skins can be legally purchased from sustainable seal catches in Greenland. It is a ban that has cost Greenlandic society hundreds of millions of kroner since the EU ban came into force in 2009. Internationally, Greenland is a role model for many indigenous peoples. Greenland is the first indigenous people to achieve self-government, and internationally one sees with admiration the political autonomy that Greenland has achieved and can achieve with the self-government law. So, although we can have our disputes within the Kingdom Community, I believe that both Greenland and Denmark can be proud that we are among the countries that are at the forefront of safeguarding the rights of indigenous peoples. It is also important to say that you cannot only have rights. You also have duties, and that is why it is also a question of having an international obligation, as a pioneer country for the rights of indigenous peoples, to actively and proactively promote the rights of indigenous peoples and to develop our global leadership as an original people. The Self-Government Act is almost 7 years old, and the purpose of the Self-Government Act has been to promote equality and Greenland's self-determination within the Kingdom Community. If the community wants to develop a strong community, it requires commitment, dialogue and an ever-increasing knowledge of each other. This is at times a very difficult balance, but it is also essential for one to be able to accommodate three so different nations and three so different countries' different interests and visions for the future within the Kingdom community. Inuit Ataqatigiit supports the proposal for adoption drawn up jointly with the Left and several parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520130346	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520130348	It is about the economy in Greenland, which I also mentioned a great deal in my rapporteur's speech. I do not know, but I can only guess that if Denmark was faced with having to have budget improvements of 5%. In the next 25 years, there would be some kind of national compromise, a compelling sense of the need to sit down so as not to drive your country into the abyss. It must then include all politicians in Greenland every day that you are sitting on a train now yes, you do not, because there are no railways in Greenland or that you are sitting on a train in a figuratively sense and driving against an economic background. So I actually want to hear this: is that not what is pervading everything in Greenlandic politics at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520130442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520130444	Now I cannot speak on behalf of all the politicians in Greenland, but I can say that this is an issue on which Inuit Ataqatigiit is very concerned. It acts among other things. to ensure a stable economy. We know that about 90 percent. of our exports are based on fishing and we have some good world market prices in relation to Greenland halibut and shrimp right now, which helps to secure our economy in the short run. But it is also a hugely unstable basis, so that is why I think there is a need to look at more diversified business development, looking at both how we can increase tourism and how we can get some raw materials projects going and perhaps also look at some smaller projects, because they can help create some local jobs without harming the environment or health.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520130528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520130530	It will be discussed in the long term. I am also talking about this in the short term. The report which has come from Greenland's economic council shows that the reforms that have been made for retirement, early retirement and housing insurance are not sufficient at all, but that a more comprehensive reform process is also needed in the short term in Greenland. There we are talking not just about some corrections, but about dramatic structural change. What is IA doing in terms of reversing developments?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520130606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520130607	Thank you for the question. I very much agree with the criticism of the reforms, and it is also something that the IA has made when it has been dealt with in Inatsisartut. After all, we would like it to be some reforms that stuck something deeper. These are some minor adjustments that I see, and they are in fact also some groups from which it is difficult to get a lot of money. That is what the reforms are really showing. If you take early retirement and pensioners, it's not there, there's a lot of money to pick up. I think we also need to look at how much money we spend in the field of education. Is the money being spent well enough? We know that there are really big challenges, that there are a lot of young people who do not get an education, and in many ways we are very inspired by the Danish way of handling things. I think there is also a need for us to find our own way there. It is really about the whole public sector, both education, social and health. How can we ensure that we get as much money as possible? So there is certainly a need to look at every penny when it comes to securing Greenland's economy, both by looking at reforms, but also by looking at business development.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520130716	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aleqa Hammond from Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520130739	Thank you very much. We are the 12th largest country in the world, says the Taksøe report, and Greenland is also without Denmark. But it puts the Kingdom community a little in perspective as a land mass. Taksøe-Jensen points out that together we are the 12th largest country in the world and the 3rd. It gives influence, but it is Greenland that delivers 98 per cent. of the area. We from Greenland are ready to contribute with what we can to promote Denmark's interests • if Denmark is interested in promoting the rest of the Kingdom's interests. Greenland and Denmark together form an Arctic great power, it is said. And it is time that Denmark took on the responsibility that comes with it. Again, it also says quite a lot about the Kingdom community, a little in a different perspective. The Self-Government Act finally states that Greenland has the right to independence, and an overwhelming majority of Greenlanders vote for parties that favour Greenland's independence. Therefore, it is important for Denmark to understand that if you want to hold onto the Kingdom community, it is time to rethink the Kingdom community and its framework. If the Kingdom community is to be given priority, Denmark must take its responsibility seriously. I am thinking here, among other things. on the Greenlandic emergency response, which needs a clear priority for the coastguard and the emergency response. The National Audit Office criticized the readiness in Greenland many years ago in very spectacular and harsh terms. We are still waiting for the report to come up with a proposal for future preparedness, and we are gradually hearing that the chart survey may not be on the stairs, as otherwise agreed. Another example of Denmark's under-prioritising Greenland is the preparation of the chart I have just mentioned. I also think it is a very important statement from Greenland that Naalaksuisut, Greenland's self-government, maintains that you are living up to your agreement. I would say that it should be the interests of the Kingdom that come first at all times and that no decision is taken that could weaken other parts of the empire because of national policy. Denmark is responsible for foreign policy on behalf of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. In fact, the parts of the Kingdom community just don't always have the same interests. Perhaps we have seen this most clearly in the Faroe Islands' exports of fish to Russia, despite Danish participation in trade sanctions against Russia in particular. We also think it is extremely important to build a much stronger trust between our foreign services than we have done so far. Although there is often a good and close collaboration when Danish interests are not squeezed, one can easily get the impression that Greenland is kept out of influence if Greenland's interests do not escape with the Danishs. It doesn't exactly create trust. We have among other things. examples of Greenland being held outside meetings, despite the Arctic being on the agenda. If Denmark is to conduct foreign policy seriously on behalf of all parts of the Kingdom, Greenland must at least have full insight into all decisions relating to Greenland and the Arctic, including cooperation with the United States. As foreign policy is conducted on behalf of the whole realm, it would also be appropriate for Greenland and the Faroe Islands to gain full insight into the whole foreign policy conducted on behalf of the whole Kingdom community. Denmark has a duty to participate, consult and consult Greenland when issues relating to Greenland and the Arctic are raised at international meetings, according to the Itelleq Declaration, to which both of us must comply. It has been pointed out that the foreign policy of the Commonwealth should not be dictated from Nuuk or Tórshavn. I agree with that would not be fair, but it is also not fair if the foreign policy of the Kingdom Community is dictated from Copenhagen. In general, we in Greenland want Denmark to engage much more actively in the cooperation with Greenland. We have a lot to offer each other. One of the ways Denmark can support Greenland's work is through the Danish embassies. We would like to see Danish embassies around the world trained in Greenlandic conditions or employees with thorough knowledge of Greenland, so that the Danish embassies not only in special cases, but as a natural part of their daily work, can promote the entire business interests of the realm at a time when the Danish community is undergoing strong change. It is precisely the business interests of mine development that the Prime Minister refers to in his statement, because our countries have agreed to deal with, among other things. uranium. In the report itself, I also note that the Prime Minister begins with and attaches particular importance to the fact that the fragmentation of a small number of other raw materials can also affect foreign and security policy interests. The Prime Minister mentions concrete rare earths. Therefore, the Prime Minister's statements must be understood in such a way that there may be raw materials which it is strategically important for Denmark or the allies of the Kingdom Community to have access to • due to a lack of supply on the world market. I regard this as an obvious way of strengthening each other. However, I also have to stress that the fixing of the price of raw materials may have been agreed with the European Commission back in 2012 after market prices, and anything else would be deeply unfair to the mining companies that have invested heavily in the development of a mine. We have many border barriers in the Kingdom Community, which, fortunately, is now being given special attention in this government's time. I think that many of the border barriers we see in the Kingdom community are outdated and absurd and need to be removed, so that we have a community of kingdoms where we meet each other with great understanding of each other's differences and values. Since the introduction of home government in 1979, Greenland has invested very heavily in our education. Before Greenland returned education as an area of responsibility, there were only a few training places in Greenland. Today there are a great many educational establishments, and we have never trained as many good powers as we have now. But we still have a long way to go. As a population we are not enough to create a full range of university educations, but when young people travel to the world, including Denmark, to train, there is a risk that they will not return for various reasons. These are very few of those who do not return, and we need every single person to work for us. Greenland has very great potential, but not all possibilities are equally visible. The Prime Minister explains some of the business opportunities that Greenland is trying to develop at national level, e.g.: mining, airports and tourist infrastructure. However, I do share the Prime Minister's view of the importance of private initiative. There are many tasks in Greenland which are subject to direct Danish responsibility, among others. The area of justice, which has very poor status and does not represent equal opportunities throughout the empire. There will be no equal priority and equality. Here we are talking about many settlements without legal certainty, land officers or a detention or, for that matter, an office to address to a state that I do not think is worthy of the Kingdom community. Greenlanders should be involved as much as possible in the joint responsibility. The defence recruitment effort in Greenland is a good example of how Greenlanders can be more involved in the task solution. Another area could be the Sirius patrol. Today, military service is required in order to be admitted to the Sirius patrol, but Greenlanders are not included in the military service. The training is built from a Danish starting point, where you assume that people have the defence training, and then they have to learn among other things. to drive and build dog sleds and survive in Greenland. It might be an idea to adapt the process so that Greenlandic applicants' prior knowledge of sled driving and survival in the Arctic regions could be involved, so Greenlandic applicants who can already drive and build sleds could spend less time on that part and instead focus on the part of defence training that Greenlandic applicants have not normally received. It would be quite natural to involve Greenlandic young people in the enforcement of sovereignty of their own country. The Prime Minister says in the statement that the government is in favour of the Greenlandic and Faroese desire to work with independent constitutions within the framework of the constitution. I would very much like to acknowledge that position here in the end. This shows an understanding that at some point we can become three independent countries, three countries that can choose to go individually or freely choose to continue together, if that makes sense. The fact that we in Greenland want independence in the form of free association means that we can continue to form part of a community, but that it will be an equal form of community where we constantly focus on making each other stronger together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520131659	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520131702	Now Mrs Aleqa Hammond blamed me for being very negative in my speech. However, I do not think that Mrs Aleqa Hammond, in her speech, was so excited about the Kingdom community. I certainly couldn't hear anything, but maybe it's because I'm getting half deaf. But please don't let me say anything. Now, for example, mention is made of: in the statement that the level of education in Greenland is internationally low, i.e. that only half of a youth year gets a qualifying education, that 61 per cent. of 16-18-year-olds in Greenland are outside the education system and that 85%. of the unemployed do not have an education other than primary school. Mrs Aleqa Hammond has, of course, been responsible for some of this development in Greenland, and there must have been a great deal of responsibility on the shoulders of Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Why has this not been addressed here, including during the period when Mrs Aleqa Hammond was President of the Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520131808	It is an area of responsibility for which everyone assumes great responsibility for whether or not you are the President of the Government. The total government and the total Inatsisartut and the total population of Greenland believe that education is the way forward. I think that from the time when I was a big child myself until today, there has been a fantastic revolution in the level of education in Greenland. When I fly across the Atlantic, there are Greenlandic captains, and today we have Greenlandic doctors and lawyers, and we train approx. 50 new teachers for primary school. If you focus on what Greenland has managed to establish and achieve within the last 35 years since the home regime was introduced, you can see that Greenland managed to raise the level of education much more than in the time when Denmark was responsible for education in Greenland, and I would say that it is a success story compared to other indigenous peoples in the world that we have never seen as many people finish each year as we do today, and we are really proud of that. However, we have far from achieved the goal and we do not think we have done well enough to get more. However, if I am to focus a little on this, I would say that I am proud that I am living in a country where the whole of Naala Suisut and Inatsisartut are behind the promotion of education as much as we can now, with the educational opportunities we have and with the means we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520131926	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520131928	It is a good thing that we are united, but nothing is happening, and that is not what the statement says, nor is it what the orientation of the Greenland Economic Council shows. It is, of course, different from what Mrs Aleqa Hammond says, that everything is actually going well, and there is a huge development, because that is not what is read in the reports. It is no use denying that when it comes to middle managers and top managers in Greenland, it is almost only Danes who sit on those posts, for example. in the Faroe Islands, where the situation is quite different, where forefathers occupy them all. There must be something fundamentally wrong when there is that difference between the Faroe Islands and Greenland. There are two countries which have exactly the same population, but where there is an abysmal difference in how the education system works.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132023	Because things do not work in the same way as they do in Denmark, and because they do not work in the same way as they do in the Faroe Islands, there is something fundamentally wrong according to the Danish People's Party. There isn't, but we see things differently. We see the reports, of course, and they also show which way we should put particular emphasis on, and whether that is something that we already have. When we set aside in Greenland through our Finance Act so and so many millions every eternal single year, we would also very much like to see some reports as often as we can, so that we can look at what we are doing well and what we are not doing well enough. It is quite natural for a government and for a parliament to produce reports so that we can constantly assess the efforts we have. I also think that every year we allocate even more funds to ensure that there are enough residences for our own young people and establish educational opportunities in Greenland as far as possible, so that they do not have to leave the country and anything else to train themselves. I think Greenland has come very, very far, and we are very proud of that. The fact that it does not meet Dansk Folkeparti's own demands is something else. But I would say that promoting the level of education in Greenland is not just a political responsibility; it is just as much the responsibility of mother and father, the responsibility of the family, to ensure that our children receive the education they need and the support they need. I would also like to say that, despite the fact that we have experienced a very large drop-out in Greenlandic educational institutions, we constantly have a political focus on securing various initiatives to help reduce the drop-out in Greenland. It is not at the same speed as we want it to be, but we are well on our way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132211	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132213	Mrs Aleqa Hammond often, even today, expresses strong dissatisfaction with the cooperation with Denmark, and Mrs Aleqa Hammond is absolutely entitled to do so. However, I would like to ask about one particular point. Recently, I saw an interview with Mrs Aleqa Hammond, who again, in a context where she expressed a very strong dissatisfaction with the efforts that Denmark is making in the Kingdom Community, mentioned the possibility that Greenland should find another country to be a partner with. Which countries did Mrs Aleqa Hammond think of?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132246	When we talk about large investments in Greenland, where Greenland is about to invest in large mining projects and infrastructure projects, it is important for Greenland to let the Kingdom community know that this cannot be lifted alone. Greenland would like Denmark and Greenland to cooperate on joint investments in relation to large investments in Greenland, so that the kingdom community gets a win-win situation out of this. However, in the absence of interest, it is also important for Greenland to point out to the national community that other countries have an interest in the extraction of mineral raw materials in Greenland and that they also have an interest in investing in Greenland. That is the point of the whole situation. I also think it is important to say that we would like to see the Kingdom Community or our Nordic countries united on joint investments. I also think it is important, and I think that is still possible, that in the Kingdom community, even though it is changing, and even if you are going to go your own way, you can look at long-term common solutions that can benefit the Kingdom community, even after a time when Greenland has become independent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132358	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132400	Of course, some of the discussion has clearly gone on with investment, and it is obvious to everyone that it is companies from other countries. However, I have understood the interviews with Mrs Aleqa Hammond that there was a general dissatisfaction with Denmark's incompetence with Greenland in the Danish community and a very strong dissatisfaction articulated very often by Mrs Aleqa Hammond, also today, with regard to such cooperation with Denmark, and in this context I have seen Mrs Aleqa Hammond mention that if Denmark does not, if I may say so, pull itself together, she would suggest that Greenland finds another state to be a partner with, and that is what I am asking: are there certain states which Mrs Aleqa Hammond thinks could be such a new partner for Greenland instead of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132439	Greenland already has a very good cooperation agreement with the European Union, which we get many millions out of every eternally only year, for common objectives to promote training in Greenland, and a very good cooperation agreement has been secured with the European Union on fisheries. So we already have that, and we also have fisheries agreements with other countries, which we do directly without having to ask Denmark first. At the same time, Greenland has a very strong commitment to the work of the Arctic Council and the working groups and has among other things. held the Presidency of the Sustainable Development Working Group. I would say that Greenland has many good partners in the field of research which is not carried out by the Kingdom community alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132525	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132528	Thank you. Like Søren Espersen, I am very disappointed because it was planned that we should now have a positive and really happy report from the Greenlandic member. But I couldn't hear that either. It was a long list of what was of ills seen by Greenland in terms of what Denmark did not live up to. With regard to the Greenlandic defence, the rapporteur regrets that as a Greenlander, for example, one cannot be included in the Sirius patrol. It is there, for example, because Norwegians would have liked to have claimed the East Greenland area. It was established back in 1933, that it was something that belonged to the Kingdom Community and Denmark. I think the Kingdom community should be happy about that. I have a question for the rapporteur: what can and will Greenland contribute positively to the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132641	If you cannot hear the positive in my speech, you have not listened carefully enough. In this context, I must say that I started by referring to the Taksøe report, where I pointed out that the Commonwealth will be an Arctic power if it is ensured that there will be closer cooperation between Denmark and Greenland than there is today on foreign policy and security policy issues. I also mentioned that Greenland's future investments will be based on a joint effort to promote investments in Greenland in the Kingdom Community. I also said that the Kingdom is changing, and although Greenland wants independence, Denmark still has a responsibility to which it is subject. In this context, I also mentioned that legal certainty in Greenland in many small settlements is very, very weakened. If only I could say it in a festive way, I would do it, but I can't. It has been neglected for so many years that it is now considered quite okay that legal certainty is not in order in the sparsely populated parts of Greenland. That is simply not right. I also think that if we are to have an opportunity to be strong together in the Kingdom Community, equality and participation and cooperation are key words, as the Prime Minister pointed out. If cooperation is the key word, then it is quite natural that we should look at what areas we are working together on. It is 32 areas for which Denmark is responsible and which need to be looked at a little more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132818	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132819	I now think that I heard a lamentation about what was missing from Denmark rather than an answer to what I really asked, namely what Greenland could contribute to the Kingdom community precisely in order to achieve cohesion. Then I'd like to expand on something. In other words, the rapporteur said that there were collaborators in addition to Denmark and the Faroe Islands, particularly in the European Union. The rapporteur also mentioned that this has had major economic benefits. Should I understand that Greenland would prefer not to enter into agreements with others unless Greenland has an economic advantage of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520132906	No, it's not like that. Anyone who follows what Greenland does and has of cooperation agreements with other countries knows that it is not exclusively economic interests that drive the work for Greenland. Greenland is a member of the Inuit Circumpolar Council and we are there to ensure that the rights, human rights and environmental rights of the Inuit are safeguarded at international level. We also have a seat in the UN under the auspices of the ECOSOC, the Economic and Social Council, to ensure that the rights of indigenous peoples are respected by all states that have implemented the declaration for indigenous peoples. It has nothing to do with economics. It is a people and its rights. We also work at the Arctic Council. We are not there to get funds from there; we are there to ensure that the voice of the Arctic people is heard and not just represented by the states alone. In this context, I would also like to say that, in addition, we also have negotiations with other countries in areas which have already been repatriated, such as fisheries, and we are making fisheries agreements with other countries. So our cooperation with other countries is not just based on getting funds. It is based on influence, involvement and contribution to know-how for good development in the Arctic areas, together with States and outside States.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520133021	Thank you very much to Mrs Aleqa Hammond. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Magni Arge from Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520133037	It's not that bad in the Faroe Islands, you might say in Jutland. We got a new government on 14 September 2015 on the anniversary of the referendum for the secession back in 1946. Despite a somewhat turbulent start, the government has helped to make a positive and optimistic impact on the environment. For the first time since the financial crisis there is budgeting with surpluses on government finances, despite the fact that the Finance Act included tax relief for people with lower income and that the block subsidy from Denmark has been frozen. Salmon farming and pelagic fishing are going well, and the construction of the whole country is going well, perhaps a little too far, but there is really no unemployment. The Faroe Islands also became a more spacious place when the Latting voted in favour of modernising the law on civil marriage, so that couples of the same sex can also get married in the Faroe Islands. The law will enter into force as soon as the Folketing has voted in favour of modifying the law on marriage. There has been a start on the repatriation of the territory of foreigners. The area of family, personal and inheritance is also being repatriated and a dialogue is under way on the acquisition of parts of the aviation area. In the autumn, the large new high school in Thorshavn will be used, and a much needed expansion of the national hospital in Thorshavn has been set in motion. Optimism can be directly seen in population growth, which was 1.2 per cent. from April 2015 to April 2016. Of course, we are very pleased that we have now reached just under 49,400 souls for the first time in history. In April it was 49,331. If we continue at that rate, we will pass half a hundred thousand to May next year. But it is not only the number that pleases us. It is also the composition, as growth among young people is gaining growth among the elderly. This might suggest that we have an approach that can counter doomsday prophecies that young people are travelling while the elderly are getting, with the enormous challenges that this will bring. Of course, this has something to do with the economic situation. After all, things are moving forward and upward in Faroese economy. But it is also very much about the political signaling of a strong will to develop the Faroese society and what is called nation building in English into an independent society that will stand on its own politically and take responsibility for the well-being of future generations. We are working hard to achieve a self-sustaining economy based on using marine resources in a sustainable way, biologically, economically and socially, and we want to ensure both economic dynamism and social interests in the process. It is also about a society that constantly invests in good education, good health and care for those who need it especially, and not least a society that appreciates both traditional values and embraces modernity. We need a focused and energetic effort that constantly improves our odds to reach the goal. Therefore, there are several major issues on the agenda in the near future. Among them is the fisheries reform, for which a Commission prepares proposals, and which is expected to be published when the Latting gets back together and examines it. Then there is also a pension reform on the way. The public bank in Føroya is re-established and entrusted with the management of public loans and liquidity as well as an economic stabilisation fund. Landsbanki Føroya shall also carry out analysis and reporting on the Faroese economy with particular regard to financial risks and the financial sector. It shall also establish macro-financial supervision equivalent to the Systemic Risk Board in Denmark. If the Danish FSA, which supervises the Faroese banks, is to be part of the Faroese Risk Board, this requires a minor change of law in the Danish Parliament, but I naturally expect both the Government and the Danish Parliament to fully support the initiative, which can reduce risks and increase sustainability in Faroese economy. We have taken over the vast majority of legislative and administrative areas today. The fact is that the Faroese people themselves pay close to 90%. of the Faroese State budget. The Danish block support is now less than 5%. of gross domestic product. This means that we have by far the greatest responsibility for the welfare of our country now and in the future, and that requires a strong cohesion. Precisely to strengthen coherence, the national government has called all parties together to complete the work on the Faroese Constitution. We need to anchor our values, political and administrative systems, rights and obligations in a Faroese constitution or constitution that people will decide on. The referendum is expected to take place in autumn 2017. This is an extremely important democratic process for Faroese society. So I believe that the Faroese Laying and the Faroese people should make the decision without any interference from Denmark. I do not understand the Danish Government's expressed distrust of the Faroese democracy's ability to carry out the work of formulating, examining and adopting a constitution for our own country. I think it is untimely interference when the Prime Minister repeatedly suspects the motives and demands a distinction between a constitution within the Kingdom community and outside the Kingdom community. This isn't about secession. It is about strengthening the foundations of the Faroese nation, which I believe the Faroese people should decide for themselves. If, at a later stage, the Faroese people decide to separate themselves, they will decide whether it will require a different constitution from that which is now being implemented. That is why I am also pleased with Enhedslisten's and SF's proposal for a proposal for adoption. I also expect that the government will deal with the foreign policy law in Lagtinget in the near future, because it is not considered appropriate in 2016. Since Denmark left the Kingdom in a commercial sense and entered the European common market, Denmark and the Faroe Islands have steadily and calmly moved apart. Denmark is part of EU trade policy and the Faroe Islands negotiate access to other countries' markets, but with limited opportunities. The EU also conducts a centralised fisheries policy, so since the fishing limits were extended to 200 nautical miles in 1977, the Faroe Islands have assumed responsibility for their own fisheries policy, while Brussels has managed the Danish policy. The transfer of this Danish right of self-determination has inter alia. As a result, Denmark participated in a boycott of Faroese exports and closed all its ports to Faroese exports of pelagic fish products a very short time ago. This means that Denmark basically prioritises the Community with other European countries more than the Community with the Faroe Islands. We can therefore expect Denmark to take sides for our counterpart when a similar conflict arises again. I hope that the honourable Members of this High Things understand our desire to gain control of independent foreign policy tools, so that we are able to defend our interests with the same internationally recognised weapons that our opponents possess. The Ministry of Justice and the Prime Minister's Office have consistently argued over the years that the Danish Kingdom is a unitary state in which, according to the Constitution, there is no room for, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). a Faroese constitution. But that's bullshit. Unity state thinking assumes a basic common identity which does not exist, irrespective of whether the identity is defined linguistically, culturally, ethnically or nationally. For the realm consists of three kingdoms, which are fundamentally different in terms of language, culture, climate and life pattern. We have so often recognised that it is only forefathers who give priority to the Faroese. It is a fact that we cannot escape, and virtually all significant results in Faroese society are driven by the indomitable will of the self-government movement to develop the nation of the Faroe Islands. On the other hand, the fact that Denmark has given a large part of its self-determination to the European Union and, moreover, has designed the remaining legislation so that it is as compatible as possible with the European Union and more than with other parts of the Kingdom has, in some cases, led to greater border barriers between Denmark and the Faroe Islands than there are between Denmark and the countries of the European Union. A common history is not enough to hold together the Kingdom community. This requires mutual political and economic interests and a high level of trust. Having said that, I am pleasantly surprised by several exciting and forward-looking speakers and wish that the government was moving in the same direction. I would like to help us to have a more modern and up-to-date debate on future political cooperation. This could include several questions: How do we each view the future? What are our biggest internal challenges? How do we think Europe and the Arctic into this? Can foreign policy for all three countries be dealt with at all when we have such great differences? Sir. After all, Martin Lidegaard talked about the next step for the community. I myself am in favour of full Faroese independence, but if there is to be an alternative, it must necessarily be about a federal construction between equals and sovereigns a la a la a free association or staff union model. It is possible that the Faroe Islands and Greenland are not on the same timeline in this respect, but I have no doubt that the time is ripe for the Faroe Islands, and then we have to take it from there. This need not change anything about the many good friendships and common interests we take over, between friends and partners culturally and in other policy areas. On the contrary, this may lead us to make stronger friendships out of what some have said. I would like to contribute to finding a common understanding of the necessary approach towards independence and how we can create a strong and constructive platform for modern cooperation between countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134204	A brief comment from Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134208	I just want confirmation that only part of the Faroese people and part of the Faroese Laying are in favour of independence. I think it might be interesting to get that. So I would also like to ask: as long as the Commonwealth works, what is the reasonableness of young Faroese men not being called in for military service to be involved in defending the kingdom? When you are a part of it and want rights, why not also make sure that you have the duties that go with it? And will Mr. Magni Arge arrange for his party in Lagtinget to propose that the Faroese young people should serve in military service?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134249	Firstly, let me say that I recognise that Tjóðveldi has the support of approximately 25%. of the population of the Faroe Islands. But if you look at how many people are actually in favour of independence, you will see with the studies that have been carried out a fairly good majority in favour of it. The question is just how the approach to it should be and how fast it should be. But remember, this is not about whether you are against Denmark or not, but about whether we have taken responsibility for our own destiny and our own future and our own society. That's what this is about. As far as the military is concerned, we have a long tradition in the Faroe Islands to state that we do not want to participate in military action or in military conflicts. It dates back to 1940, when we had one debate after another about it. It then changed in 2005 when agreement was reached to say that the Danish Government must be consulted or, at least, involved in decisions about going into military action of one kind or another. I do not think we are going to make any suggestion that foreheads should be forcibly printed for military service, but I can say that there are more who, for their own personal reasons, choose to do so. And that's allowed to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134423	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134424	It is strange that the rapporteur has just said that history is not enough. And when a new question comes up about something else, it all of a sudden talks about tradition. I find that very difficult to understand, that is, the tradition of something, so you don't. But that is contrary to what has just been said. Why should the Faroe Islands be heard in military matters if you do not want to do your duty in relation to military service? Why would you do that? By the way, I believe that Mr. Magni Arge wants to be part of a defence settlement. Why should it not be demanded of the Faroe Islands when they are part of the defence of the kingdom?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134507	Yes, but one must be able to justify why one has the attitude and how it has come about through various decisions through the Second World War, the Cold War and the establishment of NATO's base in the Faroe Islands, where a decision was taken that there should be no nuclear armament in the Faroe Islands, etc. I do not really want to decide whether or not Denmark should go to war. I believe that Denmark should decide on this. All I am saying is that I do not believe that Denmark should decide whether the Faroe Islands should go to war. And that is what I have expressed my opinion on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134551	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134552	First of all, I would like to sign for the speech and also confirm that many of the things that the Faroe Islands have taken home work on all parameters. It is gratifying to see and that it will be taken care of if it does not go in that direction. There's been a lot of paradoxes. This is precisely what Denmark suddenly had to do with sanctions against the Faroe Islands, we think is complete, I just want to use a common word as strange. The fact that we are in the area of cohesion and then have to impose sanctions on each other is difficult to relate to. Unfortunately, the Faroe Islands have also been in the media all over the world around the laughing catch, and I have to say that the Danish People's Party will always be on the Faroe Islands' side because it is part of the Faroese culture. But I would like to ask a question. If the rapporteur does not wish to engage in acts of war or otherwise and says that the rapporteur would like to see himself separated from Denmark and the Community of the Kingdom, then the rapporteur must also say that if we do so, we have to look into the world picture as an independent nation with all that it involves: a foreign policy and, for example, a defence. I guess you almost have to have that, and I guess it also requires you to have some people under your gun. Can I have a confirmation from the rapporteur on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134735	The only cannon we have is a water cannon on board one of our fishing inspection ships. So we do not have the great military power, I must admit. And with 50,000 people, we'll probably never have a military power at all. What is quite clear is that when we enter the world community as an independent nation, we cannot just be an independent nation as a small island with 50,000 people. We must be part of all kinds of international cooperation and intergovernmental cooperation. And I have no doubt that the most obvious partner from day one is Denmark. In a defence context, I have no doubt for a moment that the Faroe Islands will be part of a Western alliance which will somehow be associated with NATO. That would be the most natural thing for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134826	The rapporteur says that if the Faroe Islands one day stand as an independent nation in the world, it is still gone with a relationship with Denmark, NATO or otherwise, so that one imagines a defence which might look a bit like the Icelandic one, where one is therefore part of some alliances and then, if I may say so, pays off from the services that are arranged to ensure the state of the realm. Is that what the rapporteur is thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134855	Let me put it this way: the Icelandic model may be the closest model we can come to, because there is no independent military, but you are part of a military strategic alliance. If we look at the experience of the Second World War, we know that even after it was over, we were aware that Denmark was not able to maintain sovereignty either over the Faroe Islands, Iceland or Greenland. Therefore Greenland became an American defence zone and the Faroe Islands became actually an English defence zone. As long as this can be done on friendly terms and in a common understanding, I think that is the way we will go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134928	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520134932	I think it is very good that the rapporteur makes it very clear that the desire for independence and the desire for independence have nothing to do with the fact that Denmark has something to do with it. I think it is a very misunderstood understanding that you sometimes meet in this Chamber too, namely that when you talk about independence, you think you have something against the other side. It has nothing to do with it. This is about taking responsibility for oneself and taking responsibility for all the issues that one might now face, but also using the potential of one's own country for further work. I also think it is very right that we should have a strong kingdom community, we should also understand that there are different ways of seeing things, because they are three different cultures, three different languages, three different priorities, and a strong kingdom community respects it all the way through. Having said that, I would like to ask the rapporteur: what do you see as the greatest threat to the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520135034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520135036	If I am to say what I actually see as the greatest threat to the Kingdom community, it is if one maintains the one-state thinking, that is, where one keeps hanging on, that Denmark is a unitary state where there is no room for the Faroe Islands and Greenland to develop its own independence. It is an old rhetoric which has been invented to hold onto all the parts that now belonged to Danish supremacy, if I may say so, and I believe that there is a need to enter into a much more fruitful form of constructive dialogue which has in fact been seen to date. There have been several rapporteurs who have led to a more open dialogue based on where we are today in 2016, not what the single state thought said 100 years ago or 50 years ago. Where are we supposed to be in 15 years, in 20 years, 30 years, and it is not just us, it is Greenland, and it is also in Denmark? How do we make this work so that we can make the best of our cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520135144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520135146	I also think that the rapporteur specifically presented that when Denmark goes to war, it is not on behalf of the Faroe Islands, as was said. I think that is a very strong way of saying to the Prime Minister in this matter that Danish interests are not necessarily always the same interests as in other parts of the Kingdom community. Greenland has never been at war, and we certainly have no intention of starting it, but when you are a kingdom community, you have obligations to each other and have to look at each other's wishes and attitudes. The rapporteur mentioned a little in the direction of involvement and codecision on issues relating to the Commonwealth, despite the fact that we do not have military service, despite the fact that we do not have what it takes to go to war, but we are still tied up and tied up because other parts go to war. Can the rapporteur clarify more clearly what the consequences of this could be in the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520135247	The rapporteur can elaborate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520135250	I could not quite keep up with what I was going to go into, but let me say on the other hand that when we talk about military cooperation and the contribution that the Faroe Islands can make, I think we can easily contribute with Nordic cooperation, for example. within seach and rescue, in the field of surveillance. I also think that we should be able to provide help to places where there has been war, where there are refugee camps and where humanitarian interventions and the like are needed. We should be able to accept that, but I do not see that we will ever be involved in aggressive military action anywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520135333	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Sjúrður Skaale from Javnaðarflokkurin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520135344	Thank you for that, President. There has been some communication in connection with the proposal for adoption following today's debate. None of the North Atlantic Members is involved, which is why I would first like to say a few words about why, on behalf of my party, I am turning my thumb up. I do so because I originally had two requests for amendments, both of which have been accepted. First of all, I think it is important that Parliament, with this statute, says that the Fámjin Declaration, which provides that the Faroe Islands must be involved in all foreign policy matters that affect the Faroe Islands, must be taken seriously, implemented. Secondly, it is important that the Folketing recognises the right of the Faroe Islands to their own constitution without requiring it to be within the framework of the constitution. I'm gonna have to say a little bit about that once. In fact, the Faroe Islands already have a constitution. It regulates the political institutions in the Faroe Islands in the same way as the constitution governs these institutions in Denmark. This is needed because there are two different political systems. And, as you know, the Constitution says nothing about the political system of the Faroe Islands. Now it is necessary to develop this Faroese constitution so that it better describes the real position of the Faroe Islands in the Commonwealth and sets down the position which probably exceeds 90%. of the people share, namely that the Faroese people are the highest authority in the country. That is not what the Constitution says, and that is why it is important to me that the proposal does not say that the Constitution should be within the framework of the Constitution, but within the framework of the Kingdom Community. For me, the Kingdom is far larger and far more spacious than the Constitution. The Constitution is for us a subset of the Kingdom community. As I have pointed out a thousand times before: when in the Faroe Islands you have your own legislative power, your own tax system, your own foreign policy relations, etc., no matter how you turn it around, you cannot make it happen that the Constitution describes the Commonwealth or the framework of it. The Constitution says nothing about the Kingdom, not a word. Yet the government's official work, with both possible and impossible clumps and interpretations, on the one hand, has tried to make the constitution much larger and wider than it is and, on the other hand, has tried to shrink reality so that it can be squeezed into the constitution. But it is a conglomerate, a combination of non-comparison elements. In theory, this has been possible because we have moved into this science fictional form of legal interpretation. But after what happened in 2013 and 2014, you cannot even make Denmark the single state described by the Constitution with the wildest crumbs. For when the EU imposed severe sanctions on the Faroe Islands on the grounds that the Faroe Islands did not meet its obligations under international law, it was formal recognition that, although we are one and the same kingdom, the Faroe Islands and Denmark are different in size. For reasons of international law, therefore, it is not possible to sanction part of a single state. That would be like a court sentenced one person's arm to prison. You can't do that. Either the whole person gets convicted or he doesn't get convicted. In this case, the situation became even more absurd by the fact that Denmark, as part of the European Union, had to take part in the sanctions. So a single state cannot impose sanctions on a part of itself based on international law. To use the picture from before: A judge cannot judge his own arm to prison. I can't do that. So let's acknowledge it. Let us welcome the fact that the Faroe Islands and Denmark are two different countries which are in a close and very well-functioning fertile community, which we call the Kingdom Community. It is a community based on political understanding. The purely legal content changes from time to time. The Faroese party leaders are meeting today to talk about how the constitutional work can be put in place, and it is my party's clear position that it should be within the framework of the Kingdom Community. It must therefore be based on the understanding that has made our community the success it has become. Of course, the constitution also applies throughout the realm, but in some areas the Faroe Islands have grown beyond its limits. To say something else is simply to be taken care of. I understand the official work. Its job is to make the paragraphs and the formal framework fit the reality. But it is the job of politicians to create reality and to create the formal framework. That is why I was a little disappointed when the Prime Minister in his statement drew the same line between the Kingdom Community and the Constitution. I was also a little disappointed when he said that it is the officials of the Ministry of Justice who have the exclusive right to interpret the Constitution, because in doing so he also says that it is the officials of the Ministry of Justice who are sovereign to decide what we can and what we cannot do politically. History shows that it is when politicians have taken matters into their own hands and disregarded the concrete interpretations of the Constitution that the Kingdom community has grown and become stronger. But far more important than the formal framework is of course the content; that is what determines what the kingdom community is for something, and that is what determines whether there is support for it or not. In May 2014, a unanimous Parliament decided to work systematically to remove border barriers within the Kingdom community. Since then, we have jointly drawn up a list of 17 obstacles, 17 within the kingdom and 4 Nordic ones, and then we are working on their removal. We've removed two, and two are on the stairs. It is too little after two years, but I think we will have much more flies when we have this debate in one year's time. The most important thing is that we get a scheme that allows administrative cpr numbers to be assigned to the Faroe Islands while living in the Faroe Islands. This would remove many of the remaining 17 obstacles. I think that if we can't solve this case, it's almost embarrassing, then we're the victims of our own systems. I sign that the government is working to get these obstacles removed. When it comes to the Arctic, the national government refused to be included in the report that was prepared, the Taksøe report. I think that was unfortunate, but it was partly because the invitation came right after the Faroese elections. Whatever the reason, the report seems to be based in shifts on two sizes: Denmark and the Kingdom Community. The name used is determined by what is spoken of. When you turn your nose to the south, it's called Denmark, when you turn it north, it's called the Kingdom Community. I think this is quite natural, because, as I said, Denmark and the Commonwealth are two sizes, not exactly the same. But throughout the report, it is as if it is believed that the subset of Denmark and the whole community have it all in common, and it speaks of the common interests of the Kingdom community in the north, as if it were a matter of course. But the interests are not always the same, as both the mackerel dispute and the fact that we are exporting to Russia now, while Denmark cannot, clearly show. We stand together, but at the same time are different sizes with interests that may be different. This is a challenge that is not mentioned in the report. I am also surprised that the 2005 agreement on the involvement of the Faroe Islands in foreign policy is not mentioned, but it is a good thing that today, when it is adopted, the Folketing clearly states that it must be enforced. Although interests may differ, we also and most often have great common interests. In the Arctic one plus one plus one can give more than three if Greenland's huge size, the Faroe Islands' location on one of the world's most important shipping routes and Denmark's much larger diplomatic strength work together. That is why I am also extremely pleased with the progress made on the declaration on environmental protection in the Arctic issued by the five Nordic prime ministers together with Barack Obama after the meeting in Washington a week ago. There was a wish that the prime ministers should support the idea of creating large reserves in the Arctic, that there should be total peace for fishing and other economic activity, but I understand that among other things. The Prime Minister of Denmark said no to this being included in the agreement, and I noted that he subsequently said at a press conference: "We must look after the Arctic, but we must also know that there is an interest in commercial activity. Thank you for that, it's very important. And I take this as an expression of the fact that North Atlantic interests are determining in this context. The guidelines laid down in those years for the future in that part of the world must never be governed by countries and organisations which, instead of sustainable development, have as their objective that there should be no development at all, and there is clearly a danger of this happening in the context of the Whaling Organisation IWC. It was a whaling organisation, but then all sorts of interests came along that had nothing to do with whaling, and it ended up being an organisation whose purpose was to ban whaling. An ambitious environmental policy is of course extremely important for the Arctic, more than for most other areas, because the Arctic is the world's sink. Every time a coal plant is opened in China, air flows lead pollution to the Arctic, where it falls. The same mechanism applies to marine pollution, but closing down all economic activity in large parts of the Arctic itself is in no way a solution. The people who live in the area have exactly the same right to development as everyone else, and no one has any greater interest in all activity following very strong environmental rules. Investments must be made in the Arctic, including: precisely to ensure peace, security and environmental protection, and this is clearly in the interests of Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland. This is also clear from the proposal that is being adopted today, and that is also one of the reasons why it is going to be a yes from me. Finally, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a fine statement and to thank the many good, inspiring rapporteurs who have been.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520140419	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520140421	Thank you for a good speech. It was like so often interesting to hear. I would just like to ask how Mr. Sjúrður Skaale § 1 of the Constitution, which states that this Constitution applies to all parts of Denmark's realm?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520140440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520140442	I interpret it as recognizing that there are three different parts of the realm. In any case, it leaves room for saying that there are three different political systems that are brought together in a community. That's how I'm gonna read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520140501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520140503	[Sound emission]... population that this constitution applies to all parts of Denmark's kingdom. They say they recognise that there are three different parts, but I do not think there are. Thus, section 1 of the Constitution states that the Constitution applies to all parts of Denmark's realm, including the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Isn't that right? But then it doesn't add up when mr. Sjúrður Skaale says that the Constitution does not mention the Commonwealth or, for that matter, the Faroe Islands with a single word. I can also see that the Faroe Islands are also mentioned in section 32. 5, and in § 86.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520140536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520140537	It says that members of parliament must be elected in the Faroe Islands. It is not to describe the Faroe Islands. After all, the Constitution can be interpreted in an incredibly many ways. I choose to interpret section 1 in such a way that there are different parts. If it did not say that it is different parts, it would be a lot, and then it would be superfluous to say different parts and all parts. Then there'd be only one part. I therefore choose to read it in such a way as to recognise that there are different parts and different systems in the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520140607	Thanks to Sjúrður Skaale. There are no more brief comments. And now that we have been through all the rapporteurs, it is again the Prime Minister's turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520140626	Thank you. And thank you for an interesting debate, which can only be interpreted in one way, that there is a very significant commitment to the Kingdom community here in the Assembly. I think there is cause for rejoicing. It is, moreover, a commitment which the government shares, as I explained in my first reply. I am also very pleased that, on the basis of this debate, we can conclude that there is very broad support for a proposal for adoption, which can also be said to match the government's line. There is a commitment that we in Denmark want to actively contribute to promoting investment on commercial terms and that we are very open to the constitutional work that has been set in motion when it can be accommodated within the framework of the Kingdom Community, which is laid down in the Constitution. I welcome that. We have been around in different corners and have among other things. in various ways also affected the economic challenges facing the Faroe Islands and Greenland, primarily in a slightly long-term perspective. There is reason to welcome the fact that the real economy is well in the Faroe Islands. There are surpluses in the state budget. Very recently, a revised account was presented for the Greenland national fund, which also shows a significant improvement in the budget. Where one had budgeted with a deficit in 2015, one actually delivered a profit. That's a good thing. However, this reflects not least a good pricing of Greenland halibut and other things and cannot therefore hide the long-term challenges. And they've been turned around. Various rapporteurs have mentioned this, and what is probably important to establish here is that the responsibility lies in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. I am delighted to have a further insight into the North Atlantic speeches before I came to what is of initiatives in this regard, among other things. the Faroese work on a pension reform. And I would just like to say here once again that the Danish Government is prepared to cooperate and to help in a purely administrative way in relation to the reforms that you have in progress or that you will get in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland if there is a wish to do so. That's one of them. one of the places where there can be added value by being in a community with each other when we can draw on each other's experiences. And there is clearly a need for reform both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. There is, moreover, also in Denmark, and we shall come back to that on a later occasion. This whole question of investment, whether business investment and infrastructure investment, particularly in relation to Greenland, has also been raised, and there have been various ideas. The most far-reaching proposal is, in fact, what is covered by the proposal for adoption, as Mr von der Vring has said. Søren Espersen has tabled. I would like to say that the Greenlandic economy is, after all, a Greenlandic responsibility, that is where the initiatives must come from. And we have not received any proposal from Greenland on a common development fund or anything else and have therefore not had the opportunity to discuss this issue with the national government either. I have made it very clear at the Kingdom meeting and on other occasions that we will, of course, be open at any time to requests we receive, but it is just important to say that things have to be taken in the right order. First of all, as I have said, it requires political action in Greenland to address the economic challenges alongside the agenda of necessary structural reforms. Then there is a dimension that is about creating framework conditions for future growth and prosperity, and if a Danish-Greenlandic, Greenlandic-Danish cooperation can contribute to this, we are, of course, open to discussing it, but, as I said, it must be Greenland that has the right to serve, and at least it has not been used to date. Yes, the constitutional issue has also been well and thoroughly upset, and I would like to make my position quite clear: the question of Greenlandic/Færøsk remains in the kingdom community is ultimately a matter to be decided in Greenland/Færøerne. That's the way it is. The government is a strong supporter of the Kingdom community, but it is based on the fact that there is a common will to be in it, and if you want to leave it, you can do it, I will mourn it. Within the framework of the Commonwealth and within the framework of the Constitution, there is an opportunity, and we have made great use of this both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, to achieve self-determination, and one has a need to express it in a constitution, so respect for it, but I have to insist that there must be openness about what is the purpose of what is being done. That is why I would just like to reiterate what I said in my first speech, and what I also said in rich meetings and elsewhere, that I therefore have the natural expectation that before voting you will have a dialogue with the Danish Government. It must be in the common interest to ensure that a constitution that is put to the vote can be adapted to the common rules of the game that we have in the Kingdom Community. And when I say so, it is not to express any distrust, although Mr. Magni Arge tried to put it in my mouth, so it is actually because I am very much concerned that it succeeds in achieving the goal of the constitutional work in a positive way, thus promoting continued trusting cooperation in the Kingdom Community. Various speeches have reversed the Faroese and Greenlandic desire to gain greater influence and visibility in foreign policy. I understand. I would just like to repeat in all silence what I have already pointed out, namely that the structure we have in the field of foreign affairs, according to the Constitution, means that we speak with one voice, which requires close practical cooperation and coordination within the Kingdom Community, will be able to find a common denominator. That is why I must also say to Mrs Aleqa Hammond that the description that Greenland has foreign competence in matters which have been taken over is not a quite correct representation of things. Greenland can use the power of attorney to negotiate and conclude international agreements on behalf of the Kingdom in acquired territories, and that is something quite different. That's why the focus of a pragmatic discussion of these things is the DFG model, Denmark, as far as the Faroe Islands and Greenland are concerned, where we have started work to see how we can practically develop those models so that they become even more appropriate. Then uranium has been mentioned and I would just like to say that the decision to lift the zero tolerance principle is a purely Greenlandic matter. For us, it has been important, in respect of it, to establish the concrete cooperation that will enable Greenland to continue its efforts to develop its mining activities, and we have done so with the agreement complex that has fallen into place and which ensures that we comply with the highest international standards. I can say that for sure, because I am one of them. was able to reverse it with the director of the International Atomic Energy Agency at the Nuclear Summit in Washington recently. It says respect for the way it's handled. This ensures that we comply with our international obligations and meet the highest international standards on non-proliferation. Then there have been hints of questions about the two legislative proposals, which are currently in progress. I would like to refer to the Minister for Business and Growth and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for an answer to that question. There is a normal legislative process here. One thing I would also like to round up is the question that has been raised about Greenland's exports of seal products, which have also been raised here today, and where the government has a great understanding of the importance of seal catches in Greenland. There is close cooperation with the national government in this matter. We have succeeded, and several rapporteurs have also referred to it, in ensuring that the Inuit exemption is maintained, that Greenland's right to export seal products to the EU is guaranteed. It also succeeded in getting into the regulation that the EU is obliged to increase information on Greenland's right to seal exports. Having said that, and even though there is an information effort which may also be traceable from the first results, it is clear that there is a long way to go to restore respect for Greenlandic products here against the campaigns we have seen. And I would just like to say that I, together with the President of the Naala Suisut, had occasion to mention this to the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, during the visit to Greenland earlier this week. After all, it is now the Commission and not the Council that have a duty to act here, but that is why it is nevertheless relevant and it is a matter that we will follow up. Then we have reversed this discussion about involvement in armed conflict and the military aspect of our foreign policy. On this point, I would just like to say that we attach great importance to the fact that there is ongoing dialogue and information development on foreign policy issues which are of particular interest to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. But without being the great formalist, I also have to stress that, in relation to the use of military means of power, it is regulated by the Constitution that, prior to such decisions, we consult with the Folketing via Foreign Policy Name, to which the North Atlantic mandates, which are fully equal mandates with all other mandates in the Folketing, are thus able to seek influence. So you have to make some kind of distinction between what is also apparent from the agreements we have concluded and referred to in the proposal for adoption, in the situations where they have a particular interest in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and the situations where it has to be said that it has no particular interest in the Faroe Islands and Greenland than it does for the rest of Denmark. It is also important to take part in the discussion that has then been about the involvement of the North Atlantic members in the defence negotiations. Sir. Søren Espersen has also mentioned this for several times, and I must say that the full Danish defence also rests on a military service. It does not apply in Greenland; it does not apply in the Faroe Islands. However, it goes without saying that there is at least a significant part of what is being discussed and which is regulated in the area of the Minister for Defence, which is therefore of great relevance in relation to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. This is also emphasised in the statement we have just received from Taksøe, which will also form the basis for the government here to shortly come up with a proposal on how to strengthen defence tasks in relation to the Arctic. That is why I think it is very, very natural that, in preparing for the forthcoming negotiations in the field of defence, the Minister for Defence should discuss these particular North Atlantic perspectives with the North Atlantic MPs. But a defence settlement as such is very wide, that is to say it ranges from international operations to the purchase of new equipment for defence and the Home Guard, in which the Arctic is therefore only a minor part, and that is also the condition that there has certainly not been a tradition of the North Atlantic members being involved in the defence negotiations quite broadly, let alone part of a conciliation circle. Mrs Aleqa Hammond mentioned the Danish National Audit Office's criticism from September 2013 of the preparedness in Greenland. On 1 January 2014, the Minister of Defence was entrusted with the responsibility for the maritime and aviation rescue in Greenland, the Search And Rescue preparedness, and this was done to simplify and strengthen the preparedness. This is why a joint rescue centre has been set up at the Arctic Command in Nuuk, which coordinates both sea and air rescue, and which has been provided with educational competences regarding the marine environment task, and it is an expectation that the Minister for the Environment and Food will make proposals for a new marine environment law for Greenland in the autumn of 2016. So it is not true that nothing has happened in relation to the 2012 Reichsaudit report. Then I think I shall leave my remarks first of all to rest on it. I think it has been a good and constructive debate that we have had here today, when we have been discussing some current challenges that we have in our Kingdom community, a debate that bears witness to a great commitment that I would like to acknowledge. That is why I also look forward to further work on strengthening and developing the Kingdom community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142124	It inspires a few brief remarks and the first is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142131	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister. I also think that the Community debate, perhaps particularly the length of the Community debate, shows that there is at least a great deal of commitment. I believe that this is the longest debate we have ever had on the Commonwealth. In relation to participation in conciliation negotiations: now the defence settlement is being brought up as one subject, but in principle it could be said that other issues were also obvious. However, if we now look at the defence settlement, I think that everything else must be trusted that the North Atlantic MPs also understand their role in engaging in a defence settlement. At least I think you should have confidence in that. So I still hope that there is an opening to the North Atlantic mandates being able to participate in the defence settlement. Other issues which have also been raised, and which may not have been so much focused, are these border barriers that are internal to the Kingdom Community. It is the case that there are a number of obstacles within our own community between countries, on which there is also a need to focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142242	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142243	Thank you. After all, all 179 members of parliament are sitting here on an equal mandate and can therefore, in principle, be included in any agreement that may be mutually agreed. It must also be based on reciprocity, because I have at least noted that when I have had the opportunity to discuss it with North Atlantic members in forms that are not in the Chamber and where we have had time to talk out • that there is a reflection of the discussion that is also about what Greenland is and what the Faroe Islands are up against the Commonwealth and against Denmark, that in a situation where you do not pay taxes to the part of the Kingdom community called Denmark and which finances some of the costs we regulate by legislation down here, there is a question-y-y-y-y-y-y-ye-ye-y-y-ye-ye-ye-ye-y-ye-y-ye-ye-y-ye-y-ye-ye-y where you should then set your own limit on what you want to participate in. It's not something I can decide. I would just like to say that back from the government base we formulated last summer, and Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has also acknowledged this to me before, we have expressed our desire to have an open form of cooperation. I have also indicated that the Minister of Finance will consult the North Atlantic members in the context of the financial law negotiations and other matters to an extent which has not been seen historically. And then you'll have to look there, what the load is then in relation to entering into certain contract complexes. At any rate, I wanted to stress today that, in relation to the part of the defence negotiations and the preparation of those who have the particular North Atlantic dimension, it is quite natural that there should be a dialogue between the Secretary of Defense and the North Atlantic Members.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142435	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142436	Thank you very much. Now maybe it's a little hard to talk about this paying taxes and seeing it as the only argument that you can't do it. So I still choose to interpret the Prime Minister's statements as an opening to thinking about us, both in the financial law negotiations, which I have been promised earlier, but also in conciliation negotiations forward-looking. Now it is also the case that there are more and more Greenlanders living in Denmark. It's something we've also spoken from IA's side. We have more than 16,000 Greenlanders living in Denmark. If we look at a large number of recent reports that have come, we know that about 80%. of the Greenlanders who are in Denmark are well-functioning, pay taxes, contribute to society and are a resource for Danish society. So I would also like to see the group that has a particular need go in and take responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142532	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142533	Yes, and the Greenlanders who live in Denmark are then represented by the 175 members of parliament who are not elected in the North Atlantic. That's the way it is. I'm not putting up the treasure like a barrier. I was just trying to refer back to a discussion I know exists. Well, I've been having a discussion with Mr. Knox myself. Sjúrður Skaale during Question Time to the Prime Minister, where I have listened that he has had a reflection on where he sets the limit on what decisions he wants to be in here, in relation to the need for independence in the Faroe Islands, and that there is also a situation where Faroese tax money is spent via the Lagtinget and not through the Danish Parliament. So if we've misunderstood, I apologize. I have the approach to the work here that everyone is sitting on a completely equal mandate so it is also regulated in the Basic Law and that agreements only require that there is a mutual will to conclude them. One cannot pre-determine that everyone should be involved, but one should not close any doors to it either. Could I just say something about border barriers, as was also asked? First of all, I would like to say that I am very concerned about this. After all, a job has been done, which has now also been completed, which uncovers the obstacles that we have, and now it is all about dealing with it. That is where the government wants to put energy into removing the border barriers that we ourselves have helped to put up with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142701	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142704	In connection with my rapporteur's speech, I said that Greenland has the right of negotiation at foreign policy level in all areas of concern. And now I hear the Prime Minister stand and say that is not quite correct. Does the Prime Minister consider that the Self-Government Act is no longer in force if the Prime Minister considers that the Act of Power is the basis and not the Act of Self-Government? In that case, I would like to hear some clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142731	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142732	It may be that I heard wrong when Mrs Aleqa Hammond spoke first. It is just important for me to say that the places where it has been taken home are negotiated on behalf of the kingdom. It is the case that in the Kingdom community we are one subject of international law. We have then, through the legislation we have made in our own framework, created an opportunity for Greenland to bind us in repatriated areas. That's the way it is. There is, in fact, no hokuspocus about this, and the wording I had here in my reply was no attempt at all to build up some conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142821	I don't understand it as something you're creating conflict around. On the contrary, I believe that the law of self-government is the law that applies to the whole of the Kingdom community, and not the law of proxy, which should serve as a basis for Greenland to have the right of negotiation in all areas of domestic affairs. So in this context, I have no doubt about what the legislation on self-government says. Then we have the Taksøe report. Denmark becomes an Arctic great power, says it. And it is based on Danish interests. Inatsisartut, the Greenland Parliament, is not mentioned in a single word. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether future major power policy on the Danish side will involve Greenlandic interests too, because our interests are often different from Danish interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142919	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520142920	You have to be careful how to use the word. It is the Kingdom of Denmark that is an Arctic great power; it is the Kingdom of Denmark. Therefore, we also have a close and trusting cooperation with Greenland on how we, as it were, exercise our interest in this context. This is among other things. Therefore, in the context of the recent Arctic Council, we found a solution with a shared chair so that the Kingdom community was properly represented. It is, of course, our intention to do so in the future. So I see no conflict whatsoever between the fact that the Kingdom is made up of the three parts, namely Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland, which means that we have a very large part of the Arctic territorially. We shall then exercise it. And that is where we must ensure that our interests are balanced in our exercise of it. It happens on two levels, in two dimensions. This happens by the fact that the North Atlantic is directly represented here in the Parliamentary Assembly and can thus seek influence on what kind of foreign policy we are formulating. And this happens by seeing that next to it we also have a dialogue with both the Faroe Islands and Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143038	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143042	Thank you. It was about the constitutional process at home in the Faroe Islands and the time for the work that will take place there. When I talk about this with confidence that in the Faroe Islands you are able to carry out a proper constitutional process, it is a little bit in that I find that the Danish Government is always a bit backward-looking and looks down in history 70 years back in time to hold onto something that has been, instead of looking at the Faroe Islands being allowed to look at things anno 2016. It is just as with the negotiations that were in 1946 after the war, when the Danish Government wanted to take the situation as a starting point before the war broke out and not the reality of 1946. It is, of course, because it gives a greater power over things if one can keep such an old starting point. I think you have to trust that if you don't think that Tjóðveldi can get more than 25%. There will also be no majority in the Faroe Islands for secession in the form of a constitution. It will come on its own when the time comes. So I just think that you should let the Faroe Islands work on this in peace and quiet, and then a constitution comes out of what we can vouch for as people. With regard to defence policy and the possibility of consulting, which is in the area of foreign policy, I can only say that it is very difficult to have access to foreign policy mention, and I think it would be right to present it here to the Faroese Parliament in relation to making a statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143216	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143218	Thank you. I find it very difficult to see the parallel to 1946 because, in contrast to 1946, there is now a Danish Prime Minister on the floor of the Danish Parliament and says: I would like to support the work on the drafting of a Faroese constitution. I just have the quiet expectation that it is in some kind of dialogue-based process, so there is openness about what the scope is of the work that you are sitting with, moreover, perhaps also in order to simply avoid some misunderstandings. It is in any case in contrast to what was the Danish attitude in relation to the 1946 vote, which was therefore not recognised either, but it is a completely different story. I don't want this to rest on mistrust. It is based on a desire for clarity, because being in the Kingdom community creates mutual duties and rights. In addition to the block subsidy, there is territorial defence and there are a number of other things, and there must be clarity as to whether what you are sitting with, and what you are adopting, suddenly puts the Faroe Islands in a completely different place from what is, as it were, intended in the construction that we are jointly responsible for managing and interpreting, that is, what has been imposed by the constitution. That is why I simply repeat that I have a rather natural expectation that before you come to the time when you send any draft Constitution to a referendum, you will have a dialogue with the Danish Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143405	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted. Okay, there's one more question from sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143410	[Sound emission]... should not be a condition for what one sends out to the vote. I would also like to sign for the great support that has been received from the Danish Parliament and the government in connection with the trouble we have had regarding grin killings in the Faroe Islands. I think that has been an exemplary support we have received in this regard. I am also very pleased with the efforts being made to establish that the sustainable exploitation of marine mammals is a matter for which we must fight for confirmation in the Arctic Council too, so that everyone who wants to make a contribution to the development of the Arctic must recognise that the right has the people who live in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143456	The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143457	Thank you. That was primarily a comment, and I will then take it to heart. In any case, it can be seen, in relation to the laughing catch, that there is a very clear picture in the international community that there is a construction called the Kingdom of Denmark, which also covers Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I can certainly see this both on my Facebook and my mailbox, because there is quite a considerable propaganda activity against specifically the Faroe Islands. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox too. Magni Arge has noted that the Danish Government stands a hundred percent on the side of the Faroese people also in the case we have seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143546	Free Karin Gaardsted, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143547	Thank you to the Prime Minister for agreeing with me that the EU's promise to promote understanding that seal catches in Greenland are sustainable must be followed up. How will the Prime Minister follow up, what does the Prime Minister expect the result to be, and is there any time horizon?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143605	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143606	It is, of course, a very concrete follow-up that at the meeting we had yesterday in Llimanaq, together with President Kim Kielsen, I raised this issue with the President-in-Office of the Council, Donald Tusk. And then, of course, I will see to it that the ministers holding that responsibility keep this matter warm. In addition to that, I also believe that, despite the fact that we must, of course, ensure that the European Union complies with the obligation that I believe the European Union has, this is also a matter that we have to deal with on our own. Because an image problem has been created, and I know you are working on it yourself. And this is perhaps one of the places where we could also work more closely together. There have been various good recordings on how to use the Danish embassies. I am very pragmatic about the trade policy, in other words using Danish trade delegations to strike a blow for Greenlandic and Faroese products as well. So it might well be that it was a place where, alongside going and pushing in the European Union, we should also look at what we can do to re-brand these products internationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143728	Thank you. And then I have another thing, and that is the question of lack of municipal officers in some of the smallest settlements. Does the Prime Minister have a comment on this and can the Prime Minister see a solution within a reasonable period of time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143745	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143746	Well that is clearly a challenge and something we are aware of in terms of trying to recruit and train suitable staff. It is, moreover, a reflection of some of the challenges that Greenland's society itself faces in terms of carrying out tasks in areas that it has itself taken home. Because there is just a geographical and infrastructure challenge in Greenland that is not known in the Faroe Islands or at home. And I saw that myself in Llimanaq the other day, for example. must do school for only six children in a village where the sailing time to the nearest big city is one and a half hours. This affects recruitment opportunities, and in relation to the tasks Denmark carries out in Greenland, which we have as an ambition to do properly, we face a little the same challenges as the national government itself does. And in respect of that and the Danish judicial system is also aware of the fact that we must try to find new and more flexible ways of solving the tasks that we have undertaken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143852	Thank you, Prime Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday 24 May 2016. This has been a long and important debate, so I would very much ask that the speaking time be kept to the next items on the agenda. It's an advanced time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143925	The debate is open. It's the church minister first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520143946	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution by the Liberal Alliance obliges the government to present calculations which could form the basis for a restructuring of state subsidies to the people's church. This is justified by the fact that citizens outside the church should not participate in the financing of Christian preaching. In addition, there is the fall in membership, which is also mentioned, and I can tell you that at the moment it is 76.9%. by the Danes, who are members, and the percentage of baptism is 62.6. The National Church carries out a number of tasks which have a social character and which benefit all Danes regardless of religious affiliation. I am thinking of the registration of persons, the safeguarding of the common cultural heritage, the operation of cemeteries, funeral services, etc. In any event, these tasks must be solved. But they are not the ones financed by state subsidies. On the other hand, it is 40%. of the priestly wages. I think that is what makes the Liberal Alliance make this proposal. As you know, Denmark is a Christian country and I note that the proposal will not end with section 4 of the Constitution, which states that the Evangelical Lutheran Church is the Danish National Church and as such is supported by the state. I do not want to hide the fact that my party has in the past also made use of the possibility of converting the state's subsidy to the National Church into a block grant. Thus, the government of the last Anders Fogh government stated in 2007 that the community of the possibility was: • In view of the broad support behind the popular church scheme, the government will reorganise the state's financial support for the church from a subsidy for priestly wages, etc. to support the social tasks of the people's church, e.g. in the cemetery operation and maintenance of the church buildings. Therefore, the aid must be converted into a block grant without altering the financial burden-sharing between the State and the National Church. ▪ I remember the section very clearly, because partly I was church minister at the time, partly I had written the section in question. As an expiry of the government base in 2007, a block grant committee was set up to consider which options and models could be used. Because block grants are not as simple as it sounds, which I shall come back to. The work of the committee is summarised in report 1511, which could serve as the basis for the calculations that the Liberal Alliance will impose on the government. At that time, the negotiations ended on a dispute over who should receive a block grant. The main challenge is that the costs which the church has to pay for its social character are local in the individual parishes. After all, the parishes are very central to the church system. If a block grant is to be distributed to 2200 parishes or a little more or to 100 parishes, well and fairly, this is a major administrative exercise. To do so, we must prevent our good intentions of transparency and simplification from actually ending up in a lot of unnecessary bureaucracy to the detriment of taxpayers, the people's church and society. So here we have to be careful. There are many issues that need to be clarified before we can finally decide whether the state subsidy should be converted into a non-earmarked block grant, but we in the government believe that it is a good idea to clarify the basis and get the facts on the table. For example: is relevant in the current debate with the Atheistic Society. It is relevant to ascertain whether the cost of 40% is being incurred. of the priestly wages are roughly equivalent to the cost of all the tasks that the Church of the people carries out for society. It is therefore cemetery, civil registration, maintenance of church buildings, etc. It is relevant to have it calculated. So, in view of this, the government can support the proposal to present calculations, but at the same time I must stress that the government cannot indicate at this stage whether or not we are going to convert to block grants, and in particular I cannot indicate what the way such a change will be if necessary. It depends on whether a convincing model can be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520144529	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520144532	We are not opposed to economic calculations of anything, we actually believe that the economic calculations are good for establishing a basis for making decisions. That's the way it is in the church, and that's the way it is everywhere else. But I think that the problem with this proposal is primarily the churches. If you want to allow the subsidy to go to the churches instead, you completely ignore the fact that the church buildings are not the state, they are parishes. This is the framework for Sunday worship and church activities during the week. These medieval churches, which lie out here, are not just ancient memories, but modern church rooms, which provide the framework for Christian preaching every Sunday. Then I think it is a contradiction that they will be supported in order to avoid supporting the priests, because they will not be involved in the Christian preaching work, which will be done in any case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520144632	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520144634	I understand. When I mentioned the maintenance of church buildings, this is due to the fact that a very large part of the Danish churches are extremely conservationworthy and perhaps also protected, which means that whatever happens, they must be maintained and it costs something. And that is what the proposers think we should calculate what costs, because educationally it might also be better to say that this is what the state's contribution to the church goes to together with the cemetery and civil registration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520144717	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520144718	As far as I'm aware, the church buildings are not protected. They're church halls. So that some arrangements have been put in place in relation to what can be done in church rooms is something that the church itself has created to prevent violence against the buildings. But it's a church room. My second question is: with regard to the block grant, I would like to ask the church minister and that can also be part of the general debate on this: will the block grant strengthen the parish position in the Danish National Church, or will it do that there are others who receive the money in order to distribute it to the parishes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520144755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520144756	That is the key question, and that is also why the government is not ready to support the block grant and, in particular, not to say how it is going to be done at this stage. With regard to what can and must not be done about churches, I have plenty of complaints where you complain that you cannot move a bench, that you must not do anything about the church building, that you have to ask expensive consultants, etc., and that must be because there is something that needs to be kept. And the cost of that is what we must have calculated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520144833	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520144835	Thank you, and thank you for the positive statement by the government on this proposal. I think this is a very important proposal. The other week in Politiken we read about a priest in the church who would not marry people who had been divorced, even if they had been divorced, for example. as a result of violence in the relationship from which they came. Of course, it can be said that as long as it takes place in independent religions, it is something we can distance ourselves from, just as we do when other publishers of other religious religions say foolish things. But in this case, there is the problem that I, along with approx. 1.3 million other Danes who are not members of the church help to pay. It's a public employee. Does the Minister not agree that such a proposal would also solve that challenge? How does the Minister actually view the fact that we have priests who are public servants who have such opinions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520144942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520144943	I think I would be very opposed to the proposal put forward if it involved a change in the proposal mentioned by the questioner, because this Parliament has, throughout history, carefully created room for both those who are supporters of female priests and those who are not, those who want to marry homosexuals and those who do not. The Folketing has always gone the way of spaciousness, and I think we should continue to do so. That's why we have such a high percentage of members in the church. That is also why I am in favour of the Folketing continuing to be the supreme authority. I believe that in here we are better at resolving conflicts and preventing one another from being thrown out of the church and that the holy ones are given too much power in the church, because, as a former prime minister said, it was Stauning: when the holy ones fight, the hell is loose. And he said so because, in his day, there were quite a few heated disputes which, fortunately, were settled by the Danish Parliament, by the fact that the warring parties could remain in the church, as old Grundtvig said at the time of the constitution's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145103	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145104	I therefore share the view that it is not a state task to determine what members of a religion or preachers of a religion should think. You can then have a lot of attitudes and fight against those attitudes if you think they are wrong. It is, of course, the task of all of us as democrats when we hear such reactionary views. But isn't there a contradiction in the fact that the person in question is on a payroll that I and 1.3 million other Danes who are not members of the church are helping to pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145138	The proposal has been put forward because the proposers, like me and others in the government, believe that it would be better if something else could be found to finance. We agree that the church is supported by the state... that is stated in section 4 of the Constitution... but we would like to see if there was anything better we could support than exactly 40%. of the priestly salary. That is why we are standing here and that is why we are dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145211	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145214	Thank you. That is actually just a brief comment. First of all, I would like to acknowledge that the Minister welcomes the proposal and then I would like to confirm that the Minister is reading the proposal as it is intended. This is not a position on what reform might be needed in relation to the economy. This proposal is in mind that we will have a common professional basis to take on board any further discussion. So that is quite correctly understood by the Minister. I have to say, then, that there are still many arrogances in the people's church, and every time we have the church on the agenda here in the Parliamentary Chamber, we start discussing all sorts of things at once. However, as I said, the Minister is reading the proposal quite correctly. It must be interpreted narrowly. It is a question of providing a basis for further discussion, in which all parties are, of course, completely free to think what they think. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145310	Thanks for the preparation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145313	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145315	If you imagined taking the next step and abolishing support for the priests, i.e. the 40% that the priests get from the state, could not the consequence be that the church minister was no longer able to put an extreme priest in his place, one who preaches extremely? This is among other things. what we get in return for supporting priestly wages, namely that the Church Ministry also has the opportunity to go in and put such a priest in place. Perhaps you would not have that option if the state were no longer involved in financing the priests' salaries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145401	I understand the question, but it is up to the Folketing, in the context of a given reform, to ensure that what Mr. Naser Khader here fears not to be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145414	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145416	It's a question. There are some who have problems with the state going in and supporting the preaching work. In this context, could it not be considered that it should be a requirement that approved religions should also be exempted from corporation tax? It is also an indirect way of supporting the preaching work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145441	If sir... Naser Khader is thinking of the deduction option that other religions have, so it is established independently in the Treasury. I think we have both seen the long list of who has the possibility of deduction and it can be regulated regardless of what we are talking about here. In general there are many questions which are so easy to answer when it comes to changes to the church, because it is quite simply the Folketing here that decides. And we can decide almost anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145525	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. This is Mrs. Karen J. Klint, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145539	Thank you for that, and also thank you to Mrs Mette Bock from the Liberal Alliance, for giving us a repetition and an opportunity to discuss the structure we have in the people's church; not that the broad structure is under discussion today, but it is the arithmetic model that can provide the basis for whether we should have a new structure and to what extent we should have a new structure. I would also like to thank you for the fact that the model proposed here will still respect the provisions of the Constitution, in other words that we are talking about a model within the framework of the Constitution. I would also like to acknowledge the Minister's positive approach to this. This is not surprising, because I knew that the Minister was the head of the government in 2007. I myself have been a little disappointed that we did not make it any further back then, because I have actually praised the then government very many times in the lectures I have been giving, because it was a very good government basis that went from wage subsidies to block grants. After all, it was a debate that we needed to have, and indeed something that I had written into my own party's papers back in 2003. So there are a few of us who have looked at the different options over the years. We also had it in our government base in 2011. There we went just one step further, where we also said that we should look at a new model, a more transparent model, a new organisation or a new structure that was more understandable to the many people who do not understand the structure of the people's church today. In relation to the calculation, I would like to say to both the Minister and the proposer that the calculation was not originally based on a percentage to the priestly wages of 40%. By the way, when it started almost 100 years ago, it was 60%. But it was based on the fact that the church had delivered a lot of land and forest to the state, and thus the priests had lost their income base in a large way. And then it was a compensation for the loss of revenue that had been incurred. Otherwise, the church and the priests would have gone bankrupt by then. That's why it's time now, 100 years after that equation and the trade is done, that we look at what the equation should look like today. Because we cannot go on explaining to the next generation a calculation model and a calculation based on 100 years of history. I am very aware that if wage subsidies are to go from block grants to block grants, we need a new operating organisation to receive it. We must resolve the Gordian node that arose from the block grant report, namely that there was no recipient. Since then, there have been some Committees on Budgets which were first very informal. Now they are a little more formal, but they are still very much a little self-appointed. There we would like the democracy of the people's church to be more involved, because of course a model of the block subsidy can be drawn up without it having to be sent out to almost 2,000 parishes, perhaps by snail mail, which takes 5 days to get there. After all, the future is also entitled to solutions other than those we had yesterday. So we, as a party, would like to take part in looking at a calculation that is today's status. You also have to see if there can be any other things. So we both agree to step one and are also prepared to discuss what it takes to perhaps take another step when the time comes. But let's look at the calculation model and give us time to analyze what the equation gives us of associations to discuss. Because when we see the equation that some have done, we may have some questions about why it is not included or why it is included and how it is related. So let's get a calculation, we go to fresh and cowardly and without prejudice from the past. So we are in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145936	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Karen J. Klint. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520145946	It sounds almost to the rapporteur as if we can get back the land that we once gave to the state. That would be a great thing. I actually think the Folketing could win a great deal on that trade, really for real. I would like to say at the outset that I do not really object to a calculation of the state of the church. I've never been against calculations. And the fact that there is such an outrage, which must always be obscene when something is discussed in connection with the church, is simply not right, at least not in my own case. But what we are talking about is the three-step rocket, so to speak, which lies in the proposal, that is. the intention. It is clear that there is a intention. If you write very clearly into the comments on the proposal, what you want to do, then there is a purpose to the proposal. And what I just think is strange is that, for politically correct reasons, one would say that now the state should no longer pay to the priests because it then pays for the preaching work. There I would just like to say that I do not see the difference between the granting of state subsidies to the priests or the granting of subsidies to the church room on the other hand. Both contribute to the Christian ministry. Well, the churches aren't museum buildings around the landscape in memory of a long past and past. The churches are primarily living church rooms, where every Sunday worship is held, where baptisms are held, where weddings are held, funerals etc. This means that the churches are part of the actual present and certainly contribute to the Christian ministry. In addition, it can be said that the church room is charged with Christian preaching in the form of sacraments, i.e. baptismal font and altar. This means that both the church room, the priest and the congregation are parts of the Christian service, parts of the preaching work, the gospel, and the Word of God. So of course the churches are present, and they are also a testimony to our past in the sense that most of the beautiful quadruple churches are built from the 12th to the 14th century. And besides the fact that it is an architectural achievement without parallel in the history of Denmark, the churches are also spiritual images of the Christian ministry, because they lie there as monuments over the time and the Christianization of Denmark, which took place as a process and in a hurry. But the churches are also the churches of the parishes. They are congregational services. They provide the framework for Christian preaching here in Denmark. So I simply believe that there is a false premise in the proposal if the authors of the motion believe that by converting the state subsidy from the priests to the churches it should be prevented that the Danes could generally contribute to the Christian preaching. For they do, in any case, whether they pay to the churches or they pay to the priests. As far as the principle of the proposal is concerned, I am therefore not at the mercy of the politically correct quabble with regard to priestly wages or the church of the people. I think it is in order, both in principle and historically, that part of the priest's salary is paid by the state. Denmark is an old Christian country, and according to the Constitution the church has a special status, which means that it is supported by the state. I also think it is in order for religions outside the church to enjoy certain tax advantages, as long as the religions do not behave like the imams of the Grimhøjmosque. I can, in fact, agree with an economic statement and the way in which the church operates. But I cannot agree with the proposal, because then I would have to agree with the intentions of the proposal, and I cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150411	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150416	Now the church was actually compensated for the expropriation of property that happened in 1919, so it's a little crooked, I think, to use it as an argument for supporting the priests' salaries. But I really want to ask you something else. It was the same thing I asked the Minister about. I'm not a member of the church, I'm not a believer, but I pay over my taxes for the priests' wages. Can the rapporteur understand that when I read about a national church priest, for whom I am a part in paying the salary, and who will not marry people who have been divorced, even though, for example, the woman. has been subjected to severe violence, so is it at least offensive to me? I also think it is offensive to many others that there are people who have this kind of attitude. So there's a contradiction here. As long as we pay together, as long as it is the state that pays, it is, in principle, public employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150520	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150521	Well, now it was there with the expropriation of the ground, and that I thought it should be included in the calculation and it could actually be fun if it did actually mean a joke. But let's just leave it alone. By the way, I'd like to say to Mr. Pelle Dragsted that I also have a problem with paying party support to Enhedslisten. But that's the way it is every once in a while with taxes. You pay to the community pool because you keep some arrangements that you care about, and there we are just in relation to the church at least of different sights, because I am very fond of the church scheme. I can live with the fact that there are priests who mean something different than I do, just as I can live with the fact that in the Folketing there are some people who mean something different than I do. I think that is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150605	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150607	What we finance from taxes are social tasks, that is to say shared tasks. In a secular society, tax preaching should not be financed. I would really like to hear that because I thought it was a rather unclear answer: does the rapporteur disapprove of the statements made by the priest in question and of his understanding of when people can be married? Does the rapporteur think that these are positions that belong anywhere in a democratic society?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150633	I can put it that way that I maintain his right to think what he wants. I just don't mean it myself, and there's such a difference. I'd like to marry divorced people, but that's not the question. The question is, is he allowed to mean it? And yes, he can.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150652	Then it's Mrs. Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150655	Thank you. First of all, I do not know where the rapporteur has got the idea that I should be thinking of Mr Beazley. Christian Langballe, when I speak of rage in the church. It couldn't even come to my mind. I'm thinking of someone else just to make it clear. Then I find it very difficult to understand why you can be against the disclosure of information. Sir. Christian Langballe says he cares a lot about the church. I certainly do. And when sir... Christian Langballe says that it is a politically correct position that is being put forward here, so it is at least one that has existed for many, many decades. I have this approach to the state church economy, which was founded in me 50 years ago when my father himself was a church rapporteur in this Parliament. There's nothing new about thinking economy in these lanes of the people's church. So what exactly is the politically correct thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150749	I just think that is the spirit of the remarks that lie there, which are far away from political correctness. But it's just the way it is. When I think of rage, I do not even think of Mrs Mette Bock. I promise. I don't. I'd never dream of that. But it's just that the church is about something else once in a while. One can list a thousand reasons for abolishing the national church and dividing the relationship between church and state. I totally agree with that. After all, that discussion is standing and remains there. I just think this is a little silly. One way or another, one tries to bypass the support of the Christian ministry because it might offend some atheists. Well, it doesn't matter to me that you stumble them. But then you try to turn it into that you should instead support some church rooms, where I believe that then you also support the Christian ministry. I'm just saying, it's the same thing as what's meant by this. Well, that doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150850	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150852	Thank you. Well, the reason for this is that we can have a different discussion about our church than this one about whether we support the ministry through the priestly wages or whether we do not. We have been discussing this for many years, and I think that discussion shadows many other discussions. I fully agree with the rapporteur that, of course, we support indirectly if we go in and look at church buildings and some other things, but in the same way it can be said that the Danish state also supports mosques, because we put asphalt on the roads, so you can drive to those mosques, and what do I know? So I have a lot, very hard to see why it's so crucial that it's exactly this way that we comply with the provisions of the Constitution. But it may be, sir. Christian Langballe can explain it to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150934	Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520150936	Honestly, I just think the problem is the meaning and purpose of this proposal... not the financial cover, because I fully agree with that. But I am not in favour of the proposal, because it is once on the spot. Well, the churches that are here are the churches of the parishes. If but pay to them, then you contribute to the Christian ministry, as well as paying to the priests. That's just what I think. That's where I think you just take a long detour to get to the same place. Well, that's my whole argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151013	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151026	Thank you for that, President. The Left can support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance. We believe that it may be beneficial for a popular debate on the framework, objectives and visions of the people's church for the future to have as much insight as possible into what figures are used for different things. We also support the same openness or transparency in relation to other church or religious communities, mosques and other things, so that we know what is happening in various mosques and what the economic foundations are for the performance of the actions that are taking place there. We are dealing with the premise of the motion for a resolution, namely that some figures have to be provided. We are not clear about what is happening in the future. It has to be based on the number and on a common understanding and negotiation. However, I would like to stress here and now that it is not the Left's view that there should be a separation of Church and State. The fact that we are discussing things, that we are getting new figures, that we are clarifying some elements, I think can actually be of benefit to those of us who want the church of the people. This will be of benefit to us because we can take this opportunity to emphasise the values on which Danish society is founded in the church of the people. These are values that can be of benefit to citizens who are members of the church, but also to us citizens who are not members of the church. That is why the Left supports the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151226	Sir. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151229	I fully acknowledge what the rapporteur has said, but I would just like to arrest one thing, and that is that if there is an institution in Denmark which, as far as the economy is concerned, has been cross-checked and all the way around in terms of governance and other matters, it is actually the people's church. I mean, it's not like we're missing figures on the state church economy. I think the church minister can walk right over to the Church Ministry and pull these numbers out of the drawer, because they're already there. It is just to say that it is not because there is no economic transparency in the church, it is there. And by the way, I welcome a new study if it can make anyone happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151313	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151315	That's exactly what Mr. Christian Langballe says in his last sentence that I referred to. Let us see what part of the state church's funds goes to what. There was no lack of recognition in my statement that there is transparency in the economy of the people's church. This was also apparent from the Minister's statement, in which he referred to the 2009 report.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151345	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151347	Thank you and also thank the rapporteur. It is interesting to have a positive statement from the Left to this proposal. That's very good. I would really like to hear more in principle, now that we are, of course, talking about the part of the aid that, if I may say so, comes from the tax ticket and not from the church tax: how does the Left really view the phenomenon of church tax, that is, that we may have the only association or is the only religion whose income increases with the general prosperity of society? We have just seen that the church has had quite a significant surplus in 2014. Now the Left is usually a party which at any rate pretends to be quite insistent. Isn't it a bit funny to have an institution, a religion whose economy doesn't grow because it gets bigger tasks?In fact, there have been fewer customers in the store and grow only because of the general increase in prosperity in society because the amount is recovered as a tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151450	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151453	Left sees no problem with the church tax. I believe that the church tax over the last five years has been stagnant or perhaps even slightly decreasing. The Left takes the view that section 4 of the Constitution can legitimise the fact that it is financed in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151517	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151519	Yes, I agree that Paragraph 4 of the Constitution can legitimise, but Paragraph 4 of the Constitution does not say that it must be done precisely that way. Nor does it say how much the church should be supported. I do not think that the rapporteur is a member of other associations where the quota is a proportion of the rapporteur's salary or income. And that's what's special about this, and that's why I'm asking more in principle whether you shouldn't look at that part of this on a later occasion too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151549	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151551	I do not think so. And on the question put by the questioner or almost entirely concluding comment that he did not think that I was a member of other associations where it was done in this way, I can say that I am. I am a member of a Grundtvigian Free Congregation, where the community membership fee is charged in the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151611	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520151631	Thank you. In fact, it is not often that I have the opportunity in this Chamber to commend the Liberal Alliance for a proposal. It happens sometimes, fortunately, it's the lovely thing about the people's regime... sometimes attitudes go a little crosswise. I think there is a very good reason for this, I think it is a very good proposal. I agree that this has a limited effect here, but the aim is, of course, to achieve a reform of the public church economy, and that is a good idea. For the Enhedslisten, religious freedom is extremely important, but freedom of religion also includes freedom from religion, that is, for those of us who are not religious. Nevertheless, as I also mentioned in the questions, I and the more than one million other Danes who are not members of the National Church share in paying for our tax ticket for the religious and preaching activities of the National Church, with 40%. of the wages of the country's about 1,900 priests and, as far as I know, also the wages of the bishops are paid over the ordinary tax ticket. This seems to me to be a democratic challenge which is in some way contrary to the spirit of Article 68 of the Constitution. It also creates another challenge, which I have mentioned, in relation to when we have an experience like the other week, when a newly recruited young priest at Bornholm is out and, in my opinion, talk very discriminatoryly about homosexuals, but also has a view that women who have been subjected to violence and have therefore been divorced can no longer get married in the Christian church. I think it is reactionary, I think it is black and I think there is such a reason to distance myself from it and it offends me. Now let's say it was like the Grimhøjmosque. It is a religion which is independent and I can distance myself from what I can fight against it, but at least I am not helping to finance it. I am, therefore, unfortunately, in this case, and this is an independent challenge. The proposal here will then initiate work to reform the state church's economy so that no members of the church no longer have to pay for the preaching work. There are some questions which I hope we can clarify perhaps in today's debate or during committee work, for example. Of course, the reward to the priests is obvious, but what about other types of activities under church auspices?• What is the preacher, and what is not the preacher? I think some clarification is needed. I also have a little doubt about this with the unearned block grant. What is meant by the concept of the non-earmark? I guess it needs to be earmarked for specific social tasks. I saw, for example. I would like civil registration to be taken away from the public church and put into public administration, but I suppose it should also result in a lower block grant, if that happens one day, and how can it be done if it is not earmarked? Perhaps the rapporteur could comment on that. Either way, it's a good suggestion. It is a proposal towards a more secular society. I think in these years we're experiencing such a thing for me to see a little awkward religious awakening. We have ethnic minorities where religion takes up more than it did ten years ago. And the answer to it for parts of the political spectrum is such a kind of Christian counter-offensive, where we suddenly have to write into our government basis that we are a Christian society. I think that is completely the wrong approach. I think the right answer to this is a secular offensive. I see this proposal as a step in that direction to show that we actually mean it when we say that we live in a secular democracy, that we mean it when we say that religion, state and politics must be kept separate. As you know, in the Enhedslisten we want to go further. We do not believe that it should be the responsibility of the state to charge the church's membership quota. As I said, it is a strange phenomenon that it is a quota that grows with the economy of society. We would also like to see the matter of being a member of the church becoming an opt-in instead of an opt-out. However, as I have said, the proposal we are debating today, if it results in reform, is an important step in the right direction, and that is why we warmly support it on the part of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152131	Sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152135	I'm a little curious. Has the church contributed something positive to Denmark, to the development of Danish society, to the welfare society? Is the church doing anything good? Is everything bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152150	What good has the church done? Absolutely. It does that every day. I think there are a lot of positive activities going on in the church. I myself have many very close friends who are religious and Christian. It's not that at all. That is a position of principle. I mean it when I say that I want a secular society. I do not think that Danish society is secular in principle. We have taken important steps towards a secular society, but I do not believe that we are in goal. I have enormous respect for the church and enormous respect for people who are believers. I just think it's really important that we separate the state and the church. I do not think it belongs in a modern secular society that it is tangled in the way it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152237	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152239	The speech did not really show that there was something positive about the church. I'm glad there is. I have another question. I can hear that the rapporteur is opposed to the state granting subsidies for service. Is that true only of the church, or is that true of other religions? If you want to abolish support for preaching to the church of the people, are you in favour of removing tax exemptions for other religions that are approved? Should it be removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152312	I myself have just received an answer to a question from the Minister for Taxation, which shows that we are at least spending 900 million. kr., i.e. almost 1 billion. kr., a year on tax exemption for religions. There are a wide variety of tax exemptions. And yes, I believe that, as a starting point, if it is a question of abolishing the support for preaching. This could be done at the same time as abolishing state aid on a fairly similar amount for the church. So it's completely parallel. It is simply a matter of saying that I do not believe that as a taxpayer, in the very spirit of the constitution, one should help to support a worship that is not one's own term.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152348	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152351	I would simply like to challenge the fact that it should not be in the spirit of the constitution. It's in section 4. It says: "The Evangelical Lutheran Church is the Danish National Church and is supported as such by the state. That's the Constitution. It is put in one of the finest paragraphs, namely 4. I simply do not understand that. Then I would like to ask you something else about the church tax. I think it seems as if the rapporteur is claiming that there is simply a general increase in church tax. That's just not how it works. The way it works is to negotiate between Provsti and the municipality in relation to how high the church tax should be. This means that there is not just an increase in the church tax. That is simply not true. There isn't. The church tax doesn't just grow like that without control or something. There are just two things in the rapporteur's speech that are quite wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152457	I think the rapporteur misunderstands what I am saying. If we start with the first in relation to the constitution, I would say that it is true that it says that the church of the people must be supported by the state, but there is no way in which it has been formulated. As has also emerged, the way in which the church has been supported, if we look back from the time the constitution was created, to today, has had very, very different character. This has not always been how the salaries of the priests were financed, for example. Was it a violation of the constitution when you didn't? No, of course it wasn't. This is something we decide in the Danish Parliament how the benefits are to be provided. That's the first thing. Secondly, in relation to the church tax, I would like to say that what I am referring to is that it is a tax. Now I heard that the rapporteur of the Left was a member of an association where there was also a percentage charge so socially we do not even have it in the Enhedslisten. Yes, we also have some income-related in our quota, but the short of the long term is that it is very unusual that you have a membership quota, which is not determined by what can be said about the costs of the association, but represents a percentage of your income.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152604	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152607	I would say that, first of all, it is voluntary whether or not to pay church taxes. Then I know that there is the second question in relation to what the state pays, but it is voluntary. And secondly, it is something that is being decided. The church tax can fall. This means that there is not necessarily a built-in growth in the church tax. Back to this thing with the Constitution: Well, that's fine. There have been different arrangements for how Section 4 was understood, but nevertheless it says that the state supports, and I think that it has originally been meant in principle, morally, but that it can also be economical. It's just the way it is. So it is not contrary to the spirit of the church. There is support for a particular religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152657	Yes, but now there is another paragraph of the Constitution, and that is where the contradiction arises, namely section 68, which speaks of not supporting a worship that one does not have. So there are some things here that are in some way in conflict with each other. I have to be quite open about the fact that I want to see a change in the constitution in which church and state are completely separated. That is not at all what is in this proposal, but I think that is the prerequisite for a truly secular society. I think it would be better for the people's church to be a religion in line with others who should enjoy exactly the same respect. And again: It is not because I have anything against religions or religious people. It is a fundamental view of how secular democracy is combined.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152749	Sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152752	The rapporteur has once or twice made the impression, both in questions and now also from the platform, that I am left with the impression that one had to pay for a percentage of one's income; that then it was something strange, because why should it be that way? Can the rapporteur not see that there is something beautiful about allowing the heaviest and widest shoulders to carry relatively the most comparable in relation to the community of the people's church?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152826	Yes, it is a fundamental principle that I fully share. What's the matter is that it's just a tax collection. In other words, it is a very special way of financing an association, that is to say, firstly, the recovery of the tax by the State, and secondly, the rather special thing about the fact that the public church's economy is then not subject to the same audit requirements as other parts of the public sector, because it is said that it is independent of the state, i.e. the management audit. But what I find a little funny is that when I look at the state church's economy, the nearest one has doubled eight times in the last 60 years. If you just look at the last few years... now I'm not equal to the figures... you can see that there is a very sharp growth in the public church's economy, even from 2007 until today. And it's not like there's more customers in the store, if that's what you're gonna say. There have been fewer in the same period. That is the contradiction that I think is a little curious when you look at how busy you are in cutting down other parts of the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152930	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. You really have to stay ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520152958	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, it was because I was waiting for the Liberal Alliance to say something before me, but that's the last thing they have to do. In the alternative, we will wait for the whole debate that has taken place in this Chamber until the proposal is actually put forward, because what we are going to talk about today is, of course, whether we agree that a study should be carried out and that some figures should be put on the table. We think this is a very good idea, because then, when we are going to have the debate in this Chamber, we can do so on a qualified basis. That is why we support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520153032	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. I believe that Mrs Mette Bock is speaking on behalf of the Radical Left, so we move on to Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520153056	I wasn't quite ready either. First of all, I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance for putting forward the proposal, thereby creating a debate on the financing of the people's church. Of course, the SF supports the proposal, which in itself is non-binding. It is about getting an enlightened basis, as was also said earlier, to make some decisions about the state church's economy. Knowledge must be of interest to all of us, whether one is for or against a reform of the state church economy. At the same time, as has also been described, the proposal can pave the way for some structural changes if there is a majority for it in the Folketing. It should not be a secret that we in the SF were sorry that the committee work that was going on about the church before the elections was put in the drawer. SF has worked hard for a new organisation of the church, which ensures greater autonomy. We would like to see greater clarification of what is church and what is state, in order to enable citizens who are not members of the church to avoid paying expenses associated with preaching, including priestly wages. Finally, in the SF, we have a general desire that the main task of any reform be to support the decentralization and democratisation of the people's church. If analysis leads to requests for change, it could, for example, lead to changes. be relevant to raise a wide range of questions. If, for example, the State... must grant a subsidy to the church, which corresponds to the amount spent today on community tasks, whatever that means, what should that subsidy be given to? After all, these assignments are being solved today by the congregational councils. Do they need a direct state subsidy? You want the provsti? Do the pins have to go? And how is the distribution between them to be determined? These are all issues that we may need to discuss further. One of the social tasks that the church today carries out in many places is the operation of the cemetery. How can you handle subsidies for the task that is carried out in some places by the public church and elsewhere by the municipality? And how will we ensure that a non-earmarked grant actually goes to solving social tasks such as civil registration, cultural heritage and cemetery operation if it is to continue? If the grant is to be given to the church at national level, should we have a joint church committee and an elected budgetary committee to distribute it, or should the grant be given to the church minister? It would be a little unusual for the Folketing to grant a minister a non-earmarked grant. Or should the Folketing draw up criteria for how the distribution is to be made? If you set up the national church tax to finance the priestly salary one hundred percent, everything else will be centralized, since these funds are now local. Is it possible to ensure that a State grant provides a corresponding decentralization? The SF wants a church of the people, which is primarily the church of the people. The state's power over the church must be limited, and the church must be more on its own in the future. However, as I said at the outset, the most important thing is knowledge and transparency about the state church's economy. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520153429	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, so the next rapporteur is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520153456	The Danish National Church has had a very central importance in building the Danish national identity, democracy, the Danish state system and the Danish welfare state. The Danish welfare state is actually more the result of the Lutheran National Church than of democratised socialism. It was the private charity administered by the church that led to the introduction of tax-financed old age support in 1891 followed by the voluntary health insurance with public subsidies in 1892 and in 1898 accident insurance. The voluntary religious organizations and the importance of their work for the Danish welfare state have been recognised from many quarters. In 1919 the clergy took away their farmland, and then they were compensated by raising their wages by 40%. That is why the system is still in place today. Furthermore, the Constitution states that the church has a special status and that the state supports the church. Therefore, it makes good sense that approx. 40% of the state subsidy goes to priestly wages. We Conservatives believe that the present system is a fine one that should not be changed. Moreover, we pay for so much that we do not necessarily benefit from. I have no problem with some of my taxes going to priestly wages, even though I am not a member of the church. As long as we contribute to politicizing imams by giving them tax freedom, it makes no sense to abolish state aid to the clergy of the people's church. It is a demand from the Folketing that they do not politicize when they give their sermons, and that is the weakness of the resolution. Can the Folketing demand that priests should not politicize in their sermons if they do not contribute to their preaching? After all, the basic principle of a church is the preaching work, and it cannot be taken out as a separate thing. Although there is a confusion between state and church, the Danish church system ensures something very crucial, and that is that you do not confuse religion and politics. That is the way it is ensured. If a priest preaches extremely, the church minister or bishop has an opportunity to reprove the priest. If you removed the subsidy for wages, I would also fear leaving it to the church. Perhaps it would be the case that you spared priests, and then you would have areas that didn't have priests. That is why we reject the motion for a resolution. I recognise that it is about calculating and finding out what things cost. But the premise of the motion for a resolution is not to become wiser, but to take the next step, and that is to remove the subsidy. We are not in favour of this and therefore we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520153836	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Bock for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520153842	Thank you very much. I fully agree with the rapporteur's statement on the importance of the reformation, specifically under the auspices of the church, for the development of Danish society. I fully share the rapporteur's statement there. I would like the rapporteur to tell us: what is it that makes it possible to oppose a resolution whose purpose is to provide an enlightened basis for further discussion? How can you be against that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520153914	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520153917	But it is because of what is on page 2 of the motion for a resolution, namely the intention, the desire, that after that calculation, the subsidy for priestly wages be removed. We are not in favour of this. We have no problem with supporting the priests of the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520153936	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520153938	Then I have to say: if the prerequisite for voting in favour of this proposal was that it did not say why we wanted this calculation, then I am quite sure that the rapporteur and others of the Conservative People's Party would be able to accuse the Liberal Alliance of going with hidden intentions. So we have actually set out openly here that that is what we want. However, if the rapporteur is not aware of this, I would like to stress once again that this proposal does not bind anyone to take a position on a possible reform. It could be that the rapporteur was given better arguments for wanting to maintain the current regime if the Conservative People's Party also gained better insight into how the economy is actually screwed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154022	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154024	As Christian Langballe also mentioned, the state church's economy is very, very open. Not so much is hidden, so there is transparency in their economy. But the questioner himself says that the aim of calculating is to stop supporting the salaries of the priests, and we are not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154050	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154054	I would just like to hear the rapporteur define what the rapporteur really means by a secular society and say how it rhymes with citizens who are not religious or are members of that religion having to pay religious preachers' salaries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154126	Well, secular society can be different from one country to another. In Turkey, for example, they have a secular constitution, which is religiously neutral, with inspiration from France. But that does not prevent the individual Turk or Frenchman from being as religious as he would like to be. What is crucial is that the Constitution is religiously neutral. It is not in Denmark. In Denmark we have a mix of state and church, and it is actually paradoxical, but the confusion actually helps to ensure something that I hold onto, and that is that there should not be a mix of religion and politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154210	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154213	In fact, I recognise that this is a rather complicated issue and that there may also be benefits from the organisation that we have now. But that is quite basic. In other words, we are doing a lot of talking about the fact that we want a secular society, and we are criticising societies which are not secular and where there is a confusion between state and church. And there's a good reason for that. I am therefore rather surprised that the rapporteur, who is otherwise very concerned about issues of separation of religion and politics, may not be able to see the dilemma of the fact that we are actually financing religious preaching over the tax ticket in a secular democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154259	I would be very, very concerned if it were religion, the men of religion and the teachings of religion that dictated the ways of society. That is not what is happening in Denmark. The Church of the People plays a major role, and there is a mix of state and church, but it does not dictate that it is religion that dictates the ways of society. And I am satisfied with that, even though there is the confusion of state and church. In relation to the financing of 40%. I would like to say that we pay taxes to the extent that we do not benefit personally. I don't feel sorry for the fact that some of my treasures even though I'm not a member of the folk church are going to priestly wages. Well, there are other things that are more important. It's too petty to spend time on it, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154351	Sir. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154353	What brings me to a question is the very premise of the secular as a wonderful paradise. After all, we have just left the 20th century, when totalitarian regimes of the most abominable kind of Nazis, Communists and Fascists, based at least on Communists, a very, very strong secularism sacrificed millions and millions in gulag prison camps, where dissidents and all sorts of others were transported to. So it's not that I'm necessarily cultivating the secular society. I believe in the rule of law, and I believe that a society that has a specific framework and a proper framework based both on the rule of law and on the rule of law, and in which the church has helped to provide so much good that it is of course an advantage to Denmark, and that is why Denmark has also developed as it has.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154455	I don't know if there was a question in it. But I was asked what I understand by a secular society, and I replied to that. That is not to say that I would like to see the same arrangement as they have in Turkey, France and Saudi Arabia introduced in Denmark. I answered what I understand about a secular society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154517	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no more comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154527	Thank you. Thank you very much for the very fine reception that I think our resolution has received. It is a good thing that we can table a motion for a resolution which actually achieves a majority and which receives the support of the current government. I think that is a great step forward. Then there are some great advantages to having a recycling minister, namely that the minister can remember back in time and remember what the minister's own party has said at an earlier stage. That's a very, very big advantage. Perhaps we could sometimes have a little more use for that memory here in the Assembly when parties do not remember what they themselves meant earlier. I would like to stress once again, as I have done a few times, that the sole purpose of this proposal is to provide a basis for us to have a more qualified discussion. It may well be that the calculations that are now being presented will in fact also give to those parties who are opposed to the reform of the public church's economy some better maps and arguments. I welcome that too. It is always good to have a proper and solid knowledge base to discuss from. I therefore find it extremely difficult to see that one can say: we will not know any more; we will have nothing to know about how things are connected. But respect for it. That is something that everyone must be allowed to do. Then several people have referred to section 4 of the Constitution. It is true that the paragraphs about the Evangelical Lutheran Church, as the Danish National Church is, were very controversial. One of the great critics was, in fact, Grundtvig, who warned very strongly against it and said that one should be careful that one did not have a state church, for we should have a church of the people, which was carried by the people and carried by voluntary service. Therefore, when you have the historical memory in your luggage, it is interesting that it should be precisely the fact that you support the clergy of the people's church financially, which determines whether we have a church of the people. That is impossible because it was only about 100 years ago, after the 1919 reform, that it was decided to say that the salaries of the priests would actually be supported. In my optics, we have had a public church ever since we got the Constitution in 1849. So it cannot be wages that are crucial. Secondly, I should like to comment on a few other points. Both the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party have mentioned that when the Minister can put extreme priests in place, as was said, it depends among other things. on support for the priestly wages. In other words, if that reasoning were to be correct and if it were to be a prerequisite, we would have to support the wages of imams, Buddhist priests and all sorts of others. It is not my feeling that the two parties have this as a very special wish. On the contrary, I think it is going the other way around. After all, we have a concept called dekorum, which applies to the priests of the church. There I find it very interesting that at the moment there is also a discussion about whether this concept of decorum can be extended to publishers from other religions. So it is not something close to whether or not the state finances wages. It is about some very other things that I find interesting to discuss. So I am very pleased with the reception here, and I look forward to seeing what comes out of it, and I look forward to looking at what it is then for a reform that can possibly be built on the basis of the information that is coming out. Finally, I should like to welcome the rapporteur, Mrs Marianne Jelved, from the Radical Left and say that the Radical Left supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154917	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Churches. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154936	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Culture, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520154950	Thank you to the authors of this motion for a resolution. With the proposal, the Folketing instructs the government in this parliamentary assembly to initiate a discussion with the parties of the Folketing on the abolition of the blank media regime. According to the comments, the proposal should be seen in the light of technological developments since the last adjustment of the scheme 10 years ago. It is the view of the proposers that the technological development and development of the music, film and television market combined with the burdens of industry require the abolition of the system and not just an adjustment. In fact, blank media are not only linked to the copying of music and films, but also to the copying of e.g. pictures. It is true that streaming today is an essential way to listen to music, watch movies etc. on, but streaming has not replaced private copying of music etc. Therefore, it cannot be concluded that the streaming services have rendered the blank media advertising unnecessary. We in Denmark have a sensible rule in the Copyright Act that private copies of copyrighted material are allowed. And when you have such a rule, you must also have a rule of compensation for the right-holders for copying. This is clear from EU law, and the abolition of blank media would therefore be contrary to EU law, which guarantees rights for rightholders. However, I am prepared to discuss the arrangement with the parties of the Folketing, but I am thinking of an adjustment of the system. The authors of the motion for a resolution are right to say that in some respects the system is out of step with technological developments, so I agree overall with the proposers of the motion for a resolution, namely to initiate a discussion with Parliament's parties on the blank media regime, I just do not agree with the conclusion. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution, but I would like to propose that the motion for a resolution be dealt with in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, where I am available for both questions and consultation, if necessary, with a view to presenting a report on the possible nature of the reorganization of the system. My officials are already looking at what is being done in other countries, and I can already reveal that I actually find the Swedish scheme, the Swedish model, attractive. There they have largely left it up to traders producing or importing blank media to agree with rightholders on the media to be covered by the scheme. The parties involved also agree, as a starting point, on the level of compensation for rightholders. So whether we are to make a report or not, the government would therefore like to initiate a discussion with the parties of the Folketing on what possible adjustments to the existing blank media regime might look like, and I would like to return to the rapporteurs on this, if desired, so that we can get the discussion on the necessary adjustment started.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520155345	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Mogens Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520155349	Thank you. I can already tell you that the Social Democratic Party will be in line with the Minister. In relation to this, it is fine that we should have the debate, because there is a need to look at the blank tape system in order to make it modern. When the Minister says he wants to start work no matter what, I would like to know when we can expect a proposal for a new system. What time perspective does the Minister see for this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160520155423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520155424	If I do not remember correctly, I will meet with the media rapporteurs before too long, and there I will put the issue on the agenda so that we can agree on when we start the process and what is expected of any preparatory work to be carried out in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520155443	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520155447	That sounds very reasonable, but I would at least like to call on the Minister to set a timetable for this, which will enable us to have a new system before Parliament as soon as possible, because time has run out of this, and it has been a long time ago. That is why it is also good that the Liberal Alliance has taken the initiative to have the debate here. So I just want to hear a promise from the Minister that we need to work quickly on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520155520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520155521	I have no wish at all to press the brakes, and should it be fortunate that there was a broad consensus that the Swedish model could perhaps be used in Denmark, then it does not have to take so long to draw up a proposal in this direction for consideration in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520155538	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line. Sir. Mogens Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520155553	The Blankband scheme, which we are discussing, was introduced in 1993 and, on the basis of the Copyright Act, a fee is charged for the sale of blank media for the storage of music and videos. They're CDs, they're DVDs, they're USB keys and stuff. And the arrangement was introduced to compensate the artists for the legal copying of music, films and television, as the Minister also mentioned that we have so wisely allowed to take place in Denmark. This means that the money that comes in here is a way of paying the artists for their work, when we are allowed to copy their works for free to a certain extent. This motion for a resolution from the Liberal Alliance, which I am signing for, is a good thing that we have the debate on abolishing the system, and the Socialists cannot support it. For, of course, artists must be compensated when we have allowed a certain amount of free copying of their work. In addition, it is also the case that the scheme is based on an EU directive which obliges Denmark, which is why we cannot immediately abolish the scheme. However, as I said earlier, the Liberal Alliance is quite right that the arrangement we have on the blank tape system today is out of date. After all, over the past many years there has been a significant drop in the amount raised by the scheme. In 1996, revenue amounted to 75.6 million. kr., and in 2014 it has fallen to 27.4 million. kr. This is, of course, due to the fact that sales of blank CDs and DVDs have fallen in the last 10 years, and it is expected that this development will continue because people are copying in a different way, that is to say on hard drives, and there are also currently opportunities to store online. This means that the need for the old media disappears. Then we can also see a development in online distribution, partly in the form of downloads and partly in the form of streaming services, which means that you no longer copy in the same way as you did in the past. It's being copied, we know, but it's going on on some other media. The market and technology are different from when we last revised the law in 2006. That is why we need to modernise it. I have the expectation that the Minister for Culture will quickly come up with a proposal that we can negotiate on. And there are different ways to go here. In Finland, a financial law solution has been made. We in the Socialist Group are looking at Sweden, where a technology-neutral and flexible system has been introduced, including all the media that can actually be copied on, and where, moreover, compensation is negotiated between the parties involved, as we also have a tradition of doing in Denmark, possibly with the involvement of an independent author. But of course we are also open to discussing other proposals on how to create a modern model that ensures compensation for artists for the current legal copying that we have allowed in Denmark. But the system must not be abolished, it must be modernised. That is why we support the negotiation of a new system, but not the abolition of the compensation system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520155944	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Bock for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520155947	It is just a brief remark to clarify that, of course, the artists must have addressed what they provide, so the idea is to have it abolished and replaced by something else. Even if it is called reform, it is quite fine for the Liberal Alliance, and I would therefore like to ask whether the rapporteur will help us to draw up a report in which we propose that this reform work, which the Minister has already set in motion, should now be started.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520160013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520160014	Well, I think it's perfectly reasonable. But I would say that when we read the whole motion for a resolution and the basis for it, it appeared, as it did, that the proposers simply wanted to abolish the system because it was a burden in different ways and it was outdated. But, of course, we are very happy to join the Liberal Alliance and other parties in establishing a new system and preferably in the form of starting with a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520160037	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520160043	In the Danish People's Party we also welcome the debate on the blank band scheme. We, like the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur, cannot support the general abolition either. We also have a duty to ensure that artists and rightholders receive some compensation for download and copying that is done legally. They've had that since 1994. The Danish People's Party also thinks that we should look at it to see if we can remodel it and find compensation and remuneration for artists in places where they are actually copied. Therefore, we would also like to look at the Swedish model to see if it can be used in the Danish context. I understand that those who sell usb keys do not understand why there is, yes, let's just call it a tax of about $5. on these usb keys to be used for the compensation of artists, because they don't think that their flash drives or flash drives are generally used today for the copying of films and music, and they can be right about that. I have also read that, both in 2003 and in 2006, some minor adjustments were made, at least we were discussing whether to make some adjustments, and this was not the big deal, but I wonder if it is not the time now, because ten years have passed since we last looked at it. The Danish People's Party, like the Socialist rapporteur, would like to call on the Minister to establish a timetable as soon as possible so that we can have a change and a change in the blank tape system so that artists and rightholders can in future also be paid for what they are actually entitled to. But I understand that those who, among other things, are... selling and producing usb connectors, it seems that the scheme as it is today is unfair. The Danish People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal as it stands, but welcomes the Minister's proposal and then we will continue with it, and we can also support a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520160245	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520160250	Thank you. For natural reasons, I do not want to go into the details of the scheme, but I have the feeling that it has been well described by both the Minister and the two previous rapporteurs. I can tell you that, overall, the Left cannot support the proposal. Instead, we want to set up a modernisation of the system to protect copyright and to support the continued production of Danish content and, on that basis, the Left looks forward to the further work and discussions in the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520160334	Thank you to the rapporteur. No comment. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520160349	In other words, the Liberal Alliance must be praised for raising the problem of the blank tape system. It is terrible, as I commend the Liberal Alliance today, which is intended to compensate artists for the legal copying of their works. It is a system which has quite rightly been undermined in the light of technological developments. There the figures, which are also shown in the comments, speak their clear language. In 1996 this scheme provided artists with a compensation of 76 million. DKK 27 million, and in 2014 it is down to DKK 27 million. kr. So something has to be done to ensure that the artists continue to be compensated and that we thus produce art and music and other things in Denmark. However, the Liberal Alliance's proposal on what needs to be done, that is to say the abolition of the blank tape regime, is not something that the Enhedslisten supports. We see this as a result of the industry's catalogue of wishes more than a solution that takes account of all parties. The proposers write: "Since copying for own use is legal, this legal copying is already included in the price of music etc., like other lawful use of the music, including e.g. Playback is included in the price. There is therefore no real need for compensation. ▪ We do not quite understand this point of view because copying for own use is precisely legal because a compensation scheme has been put in place to compensate artists for the lack of sales resulting from this. It's like the idea behind it. So there is something here in the argument that we do not think is really connected. As we see the task, it is not to abolish the compensation system, but to find a system that is adapted to the present, where copying is not done on the same media, but to a greater extent, for example. on hard drives and smartphones. As others have already mentioned, there are a number of different schemes. In Finland, there is a model financed by the State, which guarantees compensation for artists, and in Sweden, a remuneration has been introduced on all different copying media, differentiated according to storage capacity. We are, in fact, open to discussing various options, but basically we consider it essential to ensure that artists receive fair and comprehensive compensation. After all, the income of many artists is made up of a number of different incomes, and the blank tape system is one of them. The authors of the proposal write that some of them are being distributed, not directly to those who sell the most, but nevertheless they are some of the subsidies, among others. various types of grants, which are also covered by this, which helps to ensure artists part of an income that allows them to get bread on the table. I understood from the Minister that the parties of the Folketing will be called for a debate on what can be done so that we can bring the scheme into line with today's technology and ensure fair compensation for the artists, and that is wise. We hope that this will happen quickly, if only in order to avoid legal proceedings, such as we do. has seen in the Netherlands and which cost the Dutch state a three-digit million in compensation for the artists. So if the proposal from the Liberal Alliance can help to speed up a fair and technologically up-to-date regime, that is just a positive thing. So I can say, as Baker Master Harepos of the Trousers of the Hill Tray Forest: Nothing is so wrong that it is not good for anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520160742	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Mette Bock, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520160745	I just have to confirm from the rapporteur that the rapporteur will agree that we are trying to make a report so that we ensure that this work gets under way now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520160752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520160754	I'm quite sure of it. After all, I am not a cultural rapporteur, but I am sure that my colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will be present. Søren Søndergaard will be prepared to make a joint account, depending, of course, on the content on which one can agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520160807	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520160815	It's such a great day when you can make it all. The background to the blank tape scheme is, in fact, that in Denmark it is the case that private people have the right to copy music and television without there being an agreement on it with artists or cultural producers. And that is a reasonable right, because everything else would be to close your eyes to reality, to people copying. That is what we see in England, for example, where we are not allowed, but it does not mean that it does not happen. So the intention behind this arrangement is perfectly good because it's like saying, "Okay, that's being copied." This also means that the creative artists, i.e. those who create the works of art that are being copied, must of course be paid for it, and this has helped to compensate them for their work. This is how we ensure that good Danish art is created at a high level, and of course we are very concerned about holding on to that. However, as has been said several times in the time I have been in this Chamber and heard the debate, there is a technological development that has overtaken this scheme, and we need to take this into account in our legislative work. When technology and everyday life simultaneously overtake the legislation we have, we have to change it. That is also why, in the alternative, we fully support the intentions of the draft law. I understand that there is an opening in relation to how it should be put together, because the abolition of it must not be left alone, there must be another arrangement. Like many other rapporteurs, I have also had meetings with Koda on what sort of arrangements there are. Among other things: After all, the Swedish system is a good way of looking at how we can replace an outdated system with a new one. So we support the intentions, and I think it would be nice if we could push the work of the committee, because this is not a new discussion that I remember from year to year. So I think it's nice that this proposal comes and we support it so that we can boost this development.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520161024	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520161030	Thank you. This is how we should shut down every week, in peace and happiness and agreement from the right to the left. I would like to put myself in the trap of several of the rapporteurs who have been up here and say that we cannot support the total abolition of the system, but that we very much welcome the negotiations on a revised system. Just as it is true that the technical design is obsolete in the light of technological developments, it is equally true that the principle or basic idea behind the scheme is not obsolete, namely the idea of compensating artists for private copying. We are very much in favour of this. We would also like this to happen quickly, but I do not think it is possible to blame the Minister for the fact that things have not gone faster, because I have also looked back in time, and this is something that has been discussed over the last ten years, in other words also under our government. Perhaps we should just agree that now we are all trying to ensure that progress is made. And when it has not gone faster, it is probably also because it is a rather complicated arrangement. We can hope that some others have made arrangements that can inspire us to a degree so that we can do so quickly. I hope so, and it could also sound that way to both the Minister's announcement and to some of what has been said from up here. We can hope for that, but otherwise just support each other in putting it right so that our artists can get proper compensation, because in the end this is not a technical issue. Ultimately, it is simply a matter of our artists having something to live on so that they can continue to deliver Danish art to us consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520161207	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The SF's rapporteur is not here, so we move on to Mr SF's report. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520161218	It is actually a sensible rule in the 2005 Copyright Act that private copies of protected material may be made. For this reason, a rule was introduced on compensation for the right-holders for copying. And that's fine. It is extremely important to focus on the rights holders. Since the scheme was introduced, there have been a lot of other technological opportunities for copying streaming is today an essential way of listening to music, watching movies etc. However, it is important to emphasise that streaming has not yet fully replaced private copying. Therefore, it cannot be concluded that the streaming services have rendered the blank media advertising unnecessary. We agree with the proposers that the scheme is out of step with technological developments on several points, and we are taking part in looking at the scheme, adjusting the scheme, updating the scheme, as the Minister for Culture has also announced. So we support a process of discussion, an adjustment and an update. It is very important that, in the context of the reform of the system, the rights holders are given a great deal of attention. The rights holders are entitled to fair compensation and the compensation must be linked to the media on which the legitimate private copying takes place. We are also in favour of being inspired by the Swedish scheme. Finally, I can say that we are also involved in a report to speed up the work and process against reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520161410	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520161419	Thank you. It is nice to be able to go on weekends in something near pure idyllic, although I understand that Enhedslisten is almost frightened when there are two resolutions in a row where you can see something right in what the Liberal Alliance says. When I have taken up this question at all, it's kind of a coincidence because I came across this scheme, and then I thought: this is an excellent example of making legislation that is actually very fine at the time it is being made. Then you forget it, and then the world changes completely, and then the system stays there. So there's a need for us to do something about this arrangement. We can then argue about whether this is an adjustment, whether it is a reform or whether it is so radical that we simply have to abolish the old system and create a new system. I do not think we need to go into this at all, because it is quite clear from all the rapporteurs that everyone agrees that something must happen. When I tabled it as a motion for a resolution, it is because, just when I started digging into it, I got the feeling that this is something you know well, but you may have pushed it a little ahead of you because it is a bit difficult. And on 11 December last year I received a reply from the Minister for Culture, who replied that the scheme as a whole could be out of step with technological developments and that the Minister would like to consider whether the scheme should be adjusted in the light of technological developments. But nothing has really happened since then. And then I thought: if we are now making a resolution, it may well be that it can inspire further action. That is why I am very pleased that all the rapporteurs have indicated that they are prepared to make a report and that the Minister has indicated that we should have looked at this, that we should have changed it. Several people have mentioned the Swedish scheme, and I would also say that I think it can be inspired by a great deal of inspiration. And the beauty of that arrangement is, in fact, that it is a contractual arrangement. In other words, it is not something that brings the state into the economic sphere; it is the parties that agree things. And I think that's a very good thinking to have. We do have that in other areas of our society, so I think we should certainly be inspired from there, but also look at what else might be of arrangements. So I would like to thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520161635	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520161647	For this election the following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 90 members: Danish People's Party, Left, Liberal Alliance, Conservative People's Party a group of 89 members: Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Inuit Ataqatigiit, Siumut, Tjóðveldi and Javnaðarflokkurin. The groups have appointed the following members: Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Steffen Kjærulff-Schmidt, Peter Skaarup, Charlotte Antonsen, Torsten Schack Pedersen, Otto Brøns-Petersen, Klaus Hækkerup, Carsten Hansen, Ole Stavad, Frank Aaen, Poul Overlund-Sørensen. Notice of who has been elected according to the group recommendation will be included in www.folktingstidende.dk. The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160520161738	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Monday, 23 May 2016, at 3 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule set out on the Danish Parliament's website.
