ParlaMint-DK_20160318100010	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 95 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a change in the offsetting of municipal use of operating income from municipal renewable energy installations). Christian Poll (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-96 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ratification by Denmark of the Paris Agreement). Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen (EL), Ulla Sandbæk (ALT), Lotte Rod (RV) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 97 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the practice for the admission of persons to legislation on the right of residence). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 98 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the rejection of asylum seekers at the border. Pelle Dragsted (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 99 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on increased regulation of the possibility for mortgage credit institutions and mortgage associations to raise contributions rates and price cut fees). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 100 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ceiling on the number of cases per year) social worker in the field of children). Pernille Skipper (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Marianne Jelved (RV) and Trine Torp (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 101 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better opportunities for compensation for children who have been victims of failure and abuse). Pernille Skipper (EL) and Jonas Dahl (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 102 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the reduction of the remuneration of full-time politicians for other political functions). Titles on the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). The Committee on Taxation has delivered: Report on the setting up of a parliamentary working party to examine the possibilities of preventive action and to strengthen the control of undeclared work. 5. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318100231	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318100256	On the part of the Social Democrats, we are very concerned that the Danes themselves will be more able to put together their television channels according to their own wishes and needs. The fact that you have to pay for expensive television channels, which you do not see anyway, can be inappropriate and cause great irritation to a great many. Therefore, the former Social Democratic Government, with Growth Plan 2014, launched an analysis to look at the possibilities to give consumers greater opportunity and freedom to choose their own TV channels. The reports drawn up in this connection show that households with a common supply of programmes today will be able to achieve a saving of between 35 million. kr. and 115 million kr. However, there is considerable uncertainty in the calculations, but this suggests that, overall, consumers will be able to save money by means of a system if they can be exempted from the common supply of programmes. The Socialist Group therefore welcomes the fact that the present government has continued its work on the proposal which, following joint negotiations, we are discussing in the Parliamentary Assembly today. The Socialists are concerned that we find a model in which, on the one hand, we ensure that as many consumers as possible can freely choose television channels which are requested by consumers and that we can help to increase competition and thus also lower prices. On the other hand, we have also been concerned about finding a model that is easy to manage for landlords and associations. Therefore, all households will have to continue to contribute to financing the fixed costs of joint installations if they are not commercially owned. Thus, associations or landlords will avoid constantly having to make new calculations of antenna contributions every time a household joins and opts out of the scheme. Nor do we believe that associations and landlords can be required to replace the older loop systems. With the loop systems it is not quite possible technically to make a free choice, but we have found out over the last 12 hours that there is actually a technical solution where you can encrypt the signals. So we want to help try to go in and see if it can be done. We believe that the development of loop systems will be slowly phased out in the coming years and that more and more power lines will be provided where free choice of distributor is possible. We would also like to take part in looking at the problem in two years' time when the law is to be evaluated. With the bill, the Social Democrats believe that we are hitting the right balance where we both guarantee as many consumers as possible the possibility of free choice of television channels, while at the same time introducing some exceptions where necessary. We are therefore also in favour of an adjustment of the bill, so that all households are obliged to pay for a common antenna system, regardless of their owner, whose broadband and internet are part of the package. This should help us roll out the broadband across the country as more and more communication with the public today takes place online. With those comments, I can inform you that the Socialists support the draft law and that we look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318100639	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no comment on it. Then it's mr. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318100650	Thank you. Now we are faced with the task of amending a wide range of legislation, for it is the law on broadcasting, the law on rental and the law on rental of general housing that is affected by it here. It has been a tough fight, and we in the Danish People's Party are pleased that it has finally succeeded and that the proposal has come so far that you can also have a free choice for tenants living in housing associations. It is no secret that in the media circles we have fought hard for it for several years, and that there has been, I will not say a dispute or a little struggle about it, but it is these various laws that this affects, which means that the Ministry of Housing at that time was also aware of it, and some time passed before it was found out who was supposed to be a cableman to change the law. Fortunately, we found out in the last period that we in the media circle and the then Minister for Culture wanted to take the lead in this area, and we informed the then Minister for Housing, Carsten Hansen. There was so little more going on, and we are really, really happy about that. It is positive that there is now an opportunity for over 650,000 households to have a free choice, or at least there should be so many. For, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, we also have approx. One hundred and thirty thousand households, which are now connected to a so-called loop system, send out only the same signal to the homes that are connected, and therefore nothing different can be sent out. But it is also true that we have received a hearing response from both private individuals and market players, who have informed us that this television signal can actually be encrypted, and that therefore you do not need to replace a loop system, but the recipients, i.e. the tenants, can, if they have a new television set that the vast majority of them have too few hundred kroner, get a TV module to read it. So you don't have to go out and buy a big, expensive box with HD recorder and all sorts of things.Of course, you decide if you want to, but you can just have a module to read it here, and according to some of the players, it should cost a maximum of DKK 300. So I think that before the second reading and before the third reading, we should look at whether we can get these loops into the bill. I do not think there is any reason why we should wait two years until we have to evaluate the proposal in order to assess what is happening. I do not believe that these loops will be replaced, as otherwise stated in the proposal that there is an assessment that they will remain on an ongoing basis. Ten years may pass before the loop systems are replaced. So those places where you can send a digital signal to the loop system, which can be converted into an encrypted signal, I think we should try to look at it if the minister wants to be involved in it, and if the other conciliation group will also be involved in it, and if we can change it in the future. In addition, this proposal also includes a change in the digital radio area, where a so-called gatekeeper is proposed to broadcast new Danish radio stations on DAB. It has also been a tough birth, whether you should choose a gatekeeper or a so-called sendamvirke, and we have agreed to choose a gatekeeper model to strengthen the market. We think it's a gatekeeper model that can best find the people who want to run new radio stations. We do not believe that we will have enough diversity if it is the existing ones who will sit together in a sendamvirke. So I am glad that this is what we have achieved, and then we will have to see what comes of it and then assess whether that is enough. But all in all, the Danish People's Party supports the bill. We're really glad you get free choice in these homes. It is the first step on the road to free choice, so you are not locked here by a permanent distributor. So the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318101113	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Bager, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318101122	As already mentioned, the aim of this proposal is to ensure that Danish households have the greatest possible freedom to choose the range of radio and television programmes best suited to the needs of the household, while increasing competition in the distribution market. It is precisely the discussion about the free choice of television distributor that is not new. On the contrary, it has been on the media policy agenda for several years and this is a discussion that is particularly relevant to those who live in buildings or settlements with a common television supply. For so far, these very households have been at risk of being tied to the landlord's decision as to which television distributors would supply the property or the building with TV. In other words, so far many households have had a television supply that has not matched their needs, and that is simply not fair. It must still be possible to choose exactly the television distributor and the programmes best suited to household needs. Another aspect of the free choice of television distributor concerns competition in the distribution market. The legislation has so far helped to reduce competition in the television distribution market, and therefore the market is currently dominated by the two major cable broadcasters TDC YouSee and Fabrica. Here, the free choice of a television distributor will lead to increased competition and a more dynamic market, and it is beneficial to the consumer, both in terms of price and quality. In addition to the paragraph on the free choice of television distributor, the draft law contains two other main points. One point concerns the introduction of the legal basis for a so-called Gatekeeper to distribute digital radio using terrestrial digital broadcasting options. This point is well in line with the objective of providing citizens with optimal opportunities to make use of the new services provided by technological progress and globalisation. The second point concerns an obligation to keep radio and television programmes for six months and an amendment to the authorization to lay down rules on accounting and auditing. Both points make good sense from the point of view of the Left. In relation to the loop systems mentioned by the Danish People's Party's rapporteur in his speech, the Left is sympathetic to the possibility of examining whether in any way it is possible to include loop systems in encryption. In this way another 130 000, as the rapporteur also mentioned, will have access to free elections, and that makes sense. So, overall, the Left is supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318101419	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318101437	Thank you. Of course, the Enhedslisten thinks it is a good idea that tenants should not be forced to receive and pay for a lot of TV channels that they never see. On the other hand, we do not see a problem in the fact that as many people as possible have access to as much as possible, because you can not see the channels you do not want. One day you may still fall over something on a channel that you didn't know existed, and therefore you didn't know you were standing there missing. So the crucial point in this question is the price, and that is why it is also crucial that we can support this bill, that we get a hundred percent guarantee that the new options will actually make it cheaper for the individual, so that the mania will not experience that price increases on individual channels will swallow the saving that an opt-out of an entire package should ensure. In this context, we have read with great interest about the Norwegian study and the request from Canal Digital, where it is called "and I quote: A legislative measure requiring broadcasters on the television market to offer all channels freely instead of the existing packages will have an expensive effect on the television market as a whole. Can that really be true? In any case, we must have made this clear in the continued discussion of the committee. As the members of the Folketing well know, and as everyone knows, Enhedslisten is not an all-or-nothing party, and therefore the choice should not be between one large package on the one hand and the choice of increasingly expensive single channels on the other. We fully support the proposal that signal providers should be required to offer all connected to a common antenna system a cheap package covering the public-licensed public service channels, at least in the Nordic region. This proposal includes, among other things: presented in a request from Lars Vestergaard to the Parliamentary Committee on Culture, and Enhedslisten will use the forthcoming committee procedure to have this proposal fleshed out and formulated as an amendment. In our view, all citizens of Denmark should have an unconditional democratic right to easy and cheap access to public service channels. So we look forward to the committee reading, but I have to say that our final position on the legislative proposal will depend on what comes out of committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318101658	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318101701	Thank you. I am a little surprised that the Enhedslisten here today does not give its full commitment. It is true that the Danish People's Party has asked questions about a change for those who have loop systems, and that is of course something that I hope we can agree on in the contract circle. But Enhedslisten is also in the conciliation circle and has nodded yes to this text. I have also seen in the hearings that there are some who will get a cheaper price on their television programmes and some who might get a more expensive price on their television programmes than they do today. But we can't know that because we don't know how distributors act afterwards in relation to their discounts to these housing associations. We can have a belief that it will be the same price or cheaper, even for the large group, but I do not think that we in the group of rapporteurs or the minister can put our heads on the block and say that there will be no individual who will have a more expensive offer. So it's worrying that Enhedslisten is now trying to jump off the deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318101801	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318101803	Now it is not necessarily the case that we skip the agreement, but even if you are in a settlement, you are allowed to listen to the input that comes from the real world, that is, from some of those who, what to say, work a lot with these things. And there we think that both the request from Lars Vestergaard and the Norwegian study are worth studying more closely. So that is basically just what I am announcing in relation to what some things we would like to focus on in committee work. And then we finally take a position when we have to vote on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318101844	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318101854	Thank you. In the previous rapporteur's speeches, the way in which this draft law will increase consumer choice has been very well explained. We in the Liberal Alliance attach great importance to freedom and freedom of choice for citizens, and that is also why we naturally support this bill. And then I have promised, on behalf of the Radical Left, that they will also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318101925	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, Liberal Alliance. Rasmus Nordqvist I am from the Alternative). I'm sorry, the alternative. It's a little early in the day. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318101936	Thank you. We believe in the alternative that it makes sense to leave the choice of television package to the individual household. And we actually see this proposal as one that points forward and helps to support the media landscape of the future, where digitalisation and self-determination play a far greater role. That is why we are actually a little concerned about the part about the 130,000 households that, because of these obsolete loop systems, are cut off from the possibility of choosing the TV package themselves, and we recommend that some steps be taken to remove loops. It might be possible to introduce a two-year deadline, so that self-determination can also be given to the households that belong to it. So we look forward to discussing this in committee, and otherwise I can say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318102029	Thank you. And then it's sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318102043	It is indeed an old discussion that we are discussing here, and from many places there has been a desire that there should also be freedom of choice in housing associations in relation to the choice of one's own distributor. We think it makes sense to get there. It is true, of course, that there is always a discussion, as Mr. Finn Sørensen mentioned that the distributor should be required to offer full freedom of choice. This is what has been studied in Norway, and we are certainly also involved in discussing whether the costs can be too high in relation to what you can get out of it, i.e. whether there are some Nordic public service channels that can get caught up in it. But this is about something else. It is a matter of giving housing associations the opportunity to choose whether to have Boxer or whether to have other distributors rather than what has been agreed as the common arrangement of the housing association in question. That is something else, and that is why I think this is quite, quite reasonable, and we support it, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318102159	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318102207	As several rapporteurs have pointed out, as a result of the bill, the antennae associations must no longer be able to bind the residents to a particular television provider. This gives tenants a better choice of TV channels on and off. Today, in many cases, you have to correct when you live for rent in a housing association or have bought a co-operative or condominant apartment. The television range is determined by the antenna association found in the settlement. As it is now, the associations can dictate which television packages the residents have to pay for, and therefore 650,000 households are currently tied to a television package. The current arrangements have survived themselves, and therefore it makes good sense to put an end to them. According to an analysis carried out last year by the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority, an entirely free choice of television channels can save the tenants 68 million. kr. a year. I mean, more competition brings lower prices. We Conservatives think it is time for the residents of the housing associations to be able to choose for themselves. This will benefit all consumers with more effective competition on the television market, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318102327	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318102337	Thank you, Madam President. It is always wonderful when development goes the way of freedom, and in this case we are developing the freedom of choice that we have gradually gained in the media sector, which is not self-evident. I remember when a Minister of Transport, who was also the Minister of Communications, came to harm in proposing a ban on satellite dishes so that there could be orderly conditions in the housing associations. He didn't get far. Today, this is the opposite way we are going, in that, with new regulation and intervention against associations, we are guaranteeing the increased freedom of choice of the individual citizen. It is, of course, a new regulation that we are talking about, but it is there to guarantee citizens greater freedom of choice. With the proposed rules within the technically feasible framework, households will be able to choose a different TV distributor from the one providing the common programme supply separately. They can also decide completely to choose traditional TV from and instead watch TV programs over the net. I am very pleased with the broad consensus that exists to increase the choice for citizens in this way. And I stress that after two years we will look at the effects of it and discuss it in the media circles. Then we come to this with the loops. It is, of course, part of the jargon that we have in this media group, and so I would just like to explain to you in case someone had to read the record or hear what we are saying that a loop system is an older common antenna, where it is not possible to disconnect individual households as a rule. So we cannot get rid of the common supply that has been decided on for the whole block or who has a common supply of programmes. And that relates to approx. One hundred and thirty thousand, as Mr. Morten Marinus and others. We have not included these 130 000 in the legislative proposal, but under the impression of what has been said by Mr Seligman. Morten Marinus and others, I am quite ready to table an amendment if desired. I can also see for myself the sense of what makes it possible to buy a box, a module, or whatever it is, which can then, in connection with encryption, ensure that the individual can go his own way, including in these slightly older common antennae. I would very much like to look at this, and I am also pleased that it seems that there is prior agreement from all parties to consider such an amendment. Then there is the question of offering a digital radio to a so-called gatekeeper. After all, it is a question of implementing a range of commercial DAC broadcasting options in DAB block 1. The Ministry is working on a draft notice setting out the detailed selection criteria and guidelines for a future so-called Gatekeeper. The draft notice has been sent in consultation and, in the light of the consultation, an commented consultation note and the draft notice will be submitted to the media agreement circle, so that we can discuss it further. I think we should discuss the conditions for a future gatekeeper and for those radio stations which should broadcast national commercial DAB radio. I think that we should discuss this in more detail in the media agreement circle after the hearing has been carried out. It is important that we bring forward all the arguments before deciding on solutions that can take many years to come. With these words, I would like to thank you for your very positive treatment. I think it would seem that we could end up with a unanimous vote at least if we solved the problem of these loop systems, which have not been included in the legislative proposal, but which I would like to do as I can, because they are still included, so that these citizens too have increased freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318102918	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. There is, for the time being, one comment from Mr Seligman. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318102924	I just wanted to say thank you to the Minister for opening up the loop system. Of course, we must also be aware that this could cost a great deal of money for the individual, and we must also include this in the negotiations. But I think it's really nice that you can open up for more people to have the option, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318102944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318102945	I'd like to sign for that. I myself have been very concerned about the cost, because I also have a small module at home, which, as far as I remember, cost 600 DKK, but if you can get the module that allows you to have freedom of choice in an old-fashioned common antennae, I should be a dung if I wanted to prevent it. Let's hope the price is a few hundred kroner. After all, we can all say to the distributors who are addressing us: Fine, could you please set the price so that it is easy to pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318103025	Then it's mr. Morten Marinus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318103028	On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would also like to begin by thanking the Minister for his kindness in looking at these loops again. I believe that the price for those who need at least a so-called TV module will be a few hundred kroner. It should not be forgotten, then, that television viewers also had a high cost when they decided in 2009 to turn off the analogue television signal, and it affected about a million television sets that had to be replaced at that time, so there were people who had high costs in connection with the turn off of the television signal. So I think we should take a positive view of it, and I am glad that the Minister sees it that way too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318103117	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318103119	I can fully confirm what Mr. Morten Marinus says, and I should like to thank Mr Marinus in particular. Morten Marinus for pointing out this issue at a very early stage. So I hope I can fulfill his well-founded wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318103134	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318103149	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 29 March 2016. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners for a explanatory statement. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318103216	Thank you, President. The question debate will tell us what the government intends to do to secure Danish film and the Nordic agreement license. The background is the European Commission's plans for the internal digital market. When the European filmmakers realized what the European Commission's plans were for, they were dismayed. If they are put into practice, this will very likely mean that film producers will miss out on the funding they are currently receiving by selling rights to display in certain areas. The digital single market will therefore have the opposite effect of the intended effect, and it is to be feared that in just a few years' time only three to five large film companies will make films in English for Europeans. It is therefore important that the Danish Parliament is united today in the defence of the television and film industry. Concern has also been expressed about the Nordic agreement licence. We have recently dealt with the bill on collective management of copyright, which emerged from an EU directive. The bill was clarified and prepared so that the agreement licensing system continues to apply in Denmark. However, the directive also showed that the EU only barely tolerates contract licensing, and therefore there is still a need for the government to work to secure the Nordic agreement licence and therefore this enquiry debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318103355	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Where do we have the minister? We'll postpone the meeting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318103450	Here you go, Minister. It seemed to be such a peaceful morning.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318103501	I regret the break with the President. I have been asked to explain what the government intends to do to secure the Danish contract license and non-public funding of Danish films in the light of the EU's plans for the digital single market. The current copyright law in the European Union is written in a much more analog age than the one we are living in now. The technological developments that have taken place over the last ten years have led to an incredible opportunity today to share and use creative content. Among other things: For this reason, last May, the European Commission published a communication on a digital single market for the European Union, which states that copyright in the European Union must be modernised. The communication was followed in December by a new Commission communication entitled "Towards a modern, more European framework for copyright." This communication addresses a number of areas of action in which proposals are expected to be submitted during 2016 on inter alia: better access to books for people with visual and reading disabilities, as well as better opportunities for a citizen of a country to access a film or music service in another country. On the basis of the Commission communication of May 2015, the Government sent a position proposal to the European Commission at the end of November. In the position paper we emphasise that Denmark generally agrees that it is relevant to examine whether there is room for improvements in the applicable copyright rules. At the same time, the government stresses that new EU legislation in the field of copyright should focus on the challenges where a solution is needed for a well-functioning digital internal market and where challenges cannot be solved by means, for example, of: voluntary agreements. In my view and in the view of the government, we have a well-functioning system of contract licenses. It ensures that companies and organisations wishing to use music, films and other creative content can easily and flexibly conclude agreements with the right-holders, who will thus be paid for the use of their material. That is why we are also advocating that the contractual licensing system be extended in the European Union. At the same time, we stress that new rules from the European Union must not prevent us from applying the contract licensing system, which works to the benefit of users, right-holders and citizens alike. There is no doubt that we, together with the other Nordic countries, can contribute useful knowledge to the European Union in this area, and we know from experience that when we stand together in the Nordic countries, we will have increased influence. However, the Commission's view is that there is a need for legislation on some of the Commission's proposals in the last communication, and that it will take a number of legislative initiatives during this spring, among other things. in the field of disability and in the field of the preservation of cultural heritage. Firstly, we need to negotiate on the proposal for a regulation on the mobility of online services. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that a citizen who has purchased a subscription to an online content service, for example: Netflix or Spotify, can take it abroad when he or she travels • something that many think is important and natural, and one understands that well when one considers how much people move across borders these years. For the government, it is clear that a solution must be found in order to make it possible, as is apparent from the basic and proximity note that we sent to the European Committee of Parliament as part of the general EU procedure. The proposal has been submitted in broad consultation and my officials are currently reviewing the consultation responses we have received. One of the areas where so far it is not quite clear what the Commission is going to do is on the issue of whether citizens in one EU country should be able to buy access to online services in another country. We know that the Commission will focus on supporting rightholders and distributors in concluding licensing agreements that allow cross-border access to content, but how it should be done in concrete terms is still uncertain. It is also one of the four main areas that we in the position paper highlight as particularly important. Of course, we agree that cross-border access to other countries' online services is something that it is very relevant to look at if we are to achieve a real digital internal market. At the same time, the government considers that any changes must be designed with due respect for the particular needs, such as: The movie business has. For example: film producers must continue to be able to sell rights to other countries in advance in order to obtain adequate funding for their films. It would not be good for Danish film production if it were not still possible. We cannot risk the carpet being pulled away under the Danish film producers who are making high-quality films today. The existence of proper conditions for growth is an important condition for cultural diversity and development. For the film industry, this means, among other things, that... freedom to agree on the best possible financing and distribution solutions for the films produced. This is therefore one of the points we highlight in the position paper, and we will of course also actively emphasise this to the Commission. To sum up, I would like to stress that new EU legislation must not prevent the application of the Danish agreement licensing system, and the modernisation of copyright in the European Union must take into account the special circumstances of the film industry, where agreements are concluded in a commercial market and where freedom of agreement forms the economic basis for success, including the great Danish success in the film sector. It is essential that new rules do not stand in the way of developing new business models and opportunities to address both technical and legal challenges through volunteering. Voluntary agreements are now coming the longest. It's the Nordic model. Any new EU rules must ensure a balance between the protection of the legitimate interests of rightholders and society in having access to creative content in a non-bureaucratic way. In the forthcoming negotiations, the government will therefore actively work to ensure the application of our Nordic agreement models and the basis for the non-public funding of Danish films. The intention is that the government will conduct bilateral discussions with other Member States and the European Commission with a view to securing the agreement system and increasing understanding of the challenges facing the film industry regarding the financing and distribution of their production. Because, as I said, it is our view that new EU legislation should focus on the challenges where a solution is needed to ensure the proper functioning of the digital internal market and where the challenges cannot be solved through voluntary agreements. Where they can be resolved through voluntary agreements, that is the way we must go. New rules must not be adopted without prior and thorough examination of particularly the cross-border challenges. That's my answer to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's request.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318104244	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the debate. That is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318104254	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Minister for that very clear statement. We are pleased about this in the Danish People's Party. After all, this question debate is the culmination of a year's work initiated by the Danish People's Party, which was due to the plans for the digital single market. That is why we also got a hearing on these two problems up and it was a very well-attended hearing with, among others. the Minister, the parties of the Folketing and a large number of organisations. Let me, however, briefly outline what the problems are in detail. The European Commission, led by the German Commissioner, Günther Oettinger, wants a single European digital market. For consumers, it has a wide range of advantages, and the same applies to most of the professions, but there are some areas that will have difficulty, and these include the television and film industry and the Danish contract licensing system. If the European Commission succeeds in implementing its plans, within a few years we will not have a European film industry as we know it today, where it is national, characterised by diversity, but instead replaced by a few large film companies, as we know from Hollywood in the United States. Films in national languages will be a distinctive feature and, instead, most will be made in English to cover the European market. There will of course still be Danish films which are partly financed by public funds, but there will be far fewer, because private funds will be lacking. This is because a Danish and any European film is typically financed by both public and private funds. Sometimes they are also financed by foreign funds if investors believe that the film will be seen by the respective audiences in the areas for which they buy the rights. In Denmark, public funds come from the state through the Danish Film Institute and Danish television stations such as the Danish Film Institute. Danish Radio. In addition, Danish film foundations like e.g. Film Funen. Foreign funds are often film funds, which are usually also publicly funded. Private funds are from Danish cinema distributors, film companies' own investment and sales of rights to show films abroad. In other words, the means behind a Danish film are a patchwork blanket. The sale of the rights to show the films is absolutely essential for a film in a European country to become a reality. If a German distributor wants to show a film in Germany, he often secures the rights before the film is recorded, for example. The movie under the sand. The distributor pays to get the rights to sell it for display in Germany. So if the European Commission succeeds in carrying out its venture, these funds will be lacking for the Danish film. In such a market, a Danish film will therefore have to find the means elsewhere or cut down sharply on the film budget. The Nordic system of agreements is under threat because it is not mentioned in the Commission communication on the plans for the digital single market. The agreement licensing system is based on agreements and not on legislation and regulation, and it is market- and contract-based. It is a flexible and simple model that the Nordic countries must continue to use when finding solutions in the film, publishing, library, university and music sectors. It is therefore necessary for the Folketing to send the government to Brussels with a clear demand from Denmark that the film and television industry be excluded from the digital market and that the contract licensing system be guaranteed. After all, the Minister's speech is very good with the proposal for adoption which I shall now read out on behalf of a whole Parliament, that is. on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance, the Alternative, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party. It consists of 150 words, but it is very long words, and that is why it takes a little time to read. Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Government has sent a position paper to the European Commission on Denmark's copyright priorities. The Folketing instructs the Government to actively work for the views of the position paper vis-à-vis the European Commission, in particular the conditions necessary for the continued development and production of Danish audiovisual content, before presenting concrete legislative proposals. The Danish Parliament takes the view that new EU legislation must not prevent the use of the Danish agreement licensing system, and that when modernising copyright in the EU, account must be taken of the special features of the television and film industry, including focusing on voluntary contractual solutions rather than legislation. The Danish Parliament notes that the government will actively work to preserve the Danish agreement licensing model and the basis for the non-public funding of Danish films, including conducting bilateral discussions with other Member States and the European Commission to ensure the agreement licensing system, and the understanding of the challenges of the television and film industry regarding the financing and distribution of their productions increases. • V 37).
ParlaMint-DK_20160318104839	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption is part of the further debate, although there is agreement. Then it's mr. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318104901	When Mr. Mogens Jensen, who is the rapporteur on this subject, could not be here, of course I have promised to deal with this point. We thank you for the initiative for this debate on questions that will allow us to discuss Parliament's position on the European Commission's strategy to promote the digitalisation of the internal market in the European Union, including the plans to modernise copyright rules in this context in the European Union. The main elements of the Commission's strategy include: to ensure better access to music and films purchased or subscribed to by European countries; and to ensure greater legal clarity regarding the cross-border use of, for example, written material for special purposes, e.g.: in the field of research and education. The Socialists share the Commission's intention, also in the digital field, to ensure an effective internal market between EU countries, as we have had in the internal market in production and services. But this must be done in a way that ensures that copyright and market organisations, among others, are protected. film and television production is not undermined to the detriment of the overall diversity of cultural production in Europe. Through recent European history, the creative industry has created both growth and earnings and has contributed to creating the unique cultural diversity that is fundamental to Europe's position in the world. The industry is translating in the EU for over 500 billion. EUR 7 million and secures at least 7 million jobs. This is not least on the basis of copyright. It ensures that artists and producers can invest in creative productions and ensure that there is legal protection of the content. Without copyright and public payment of rights holders, we are removing the foundations for cultural production in Europe. This must not, of course, happen. When the digital single market strategy is unfolding, you have to learn from Denmark and the other Nordic countries. With us in the Nordic countries there is a flexible and non-bureaucratic contractual licensing system which means that large quantities of copyright-protected material can be allowed to be used on the basis of a single agreement. In practical terms, it is done through right-holder organisations which ensure that all right-holders are paid. This means, for example, that: a television station does not make an individual agreement with each rightholder. Denmark and the other Nordic countries are also known for generally building on contractual systems, i.e. good and sensible agreements between targeted parties. It works well and efficiently, and we will have incorporated this into an existing standard of EU rules in this area. In particular, an internal market for digital content must not lead to special geographically divided rights markets in which film and television production is undermined. This would, above all, be a disaster for the film production of the smaller countries. That is why the Social Democrats support the position paper of the Danish government of November 2015, when the government says that the contractual system should be used as far as possible and that the specific needs of the cultural sector should be taken into account. For social democracy, it is important that the EU reform of copyright is effective and balanced. It must protect rights and provide a framework for a flexible and market-based agreement solution for access to art, knowledge and entertainment. Direct agreements between rightholders and users must create access to content and new business models. Over the coming months, it is important for the government both in relation to the Commission and to the other Member States to work actively to ensure that the contract licensing model and contract systems are included in the EU reform, as well as the financing model of our film is maintained. It must be in the interests of the whole parliament, which is why it is also gratifying to see that all the parties are behind a joint proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318105346	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318105355	We have heard from the Minister and the previous rapporteurs about the reasons for the modernisation of copyright in the European Union last year, so I will spare Members a second review and instead add a few brief comments to the points raised in the question. As far as the Danish contract licence is concerned, it is important to emphasise that it is a unique and unbureaucratic model that works. Here, in relation to the new copyright legislation, the EU can be inspired by the Danish agreement licensing model. That is why I am also pleased that the government will actively work to ensure that new EU legislation does not prevent the application of the Danish agreement licensing model. As the Minister has just assured in his speech, the government is in favour of maintaining the Danish contract licence, as does the Left, of course. In order to ensure non-public funding for Danish films, account should be taken, in the context of the modernisation of copyright, of the special features of the film industry, particularly in relation to the financing of productions. It is therefore gratifying that the government will work to ensure that the foundations for non-public funding for Danish films are safeguarded and that the government, in its discussions with the other Member States and the European Commission, will increase understanding of the challenges that the film industry may end up facing in relation to funding. And, as the Minister has just pointed out, we cannot risk the carpet being pulled away under the Danish film producers. Basically, we in the Left are working for a sensible balance where consumers have better access to films, television and music online, also abroad, without compromising the funding of productions. Against this background, on behalf of the Left, I agree with the Minister's speech, because, together with the position paper which has been sent to the European Commission, it shows that the government has shown due diligence, as it has already presented the Danish views to the European Commission. So the Left, together with the other parties, can support the proposed proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318105626	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318105645	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to make a general comment. In 2005, the French and Dutch people voted by a large majority against the so-called Constitutional Treaty of the European Union. That led to two things. Firstly, that, since then, virtually no people in the European Union have been allowed to vote on anything that has anything to do with the European Union, as far as I can remember, with the British and Danes as the only exception. The tracks were obviously scared. Secondly, the European Commission stepped up a number of initiatives to make citizens realise the bliss of the European Union, namely Europe for citizens, as it was called. And who can be against it now? The problem is, of course, that a number of the initiatives under closer scrutiny may be of benefit to citizens as consumers, but even more so for the benefit of multinational companies. So what the individual could gain as a consumer risks losing as a citizen of the community. When we discuss today the European Commission's initiatives in relation to the use of cross-border mobile online content services, we must avoid that trap. Is it a good thing for consumers to be able to take their subscription to a streaming service abroad when, for example, they are able to take it abroad? is on holiday or on business, the so-called portability? Yes, of course it is. But is it also a good thing for the citizens of the European Union that this possibility will mean that the basis for ensuring a wide range of films and television productions in the various countries will be undermined and that cinema and television production will in future be dominated by the multinational media groups with the narrow-mindedness and the lack of versatility that will result from it? No, it's not. It is precisely for this reason that it is so important that, in the face of the Commission's enthusiasm for the frontier-free internal market, we stick to something so boring and here comes another difficult word: territorialisation, meaning that copyright is territorially based and allocated and enforced nationally in each country. Danish films are an excellent example of why it is so important. In the last 5 years, two thirds of all Danish films are not only funded by funds from Denmark, but also from abroad. This foreign financing would not be possible if it were not, for example, for example. investors from Germany or other EU countries could have some rights to display the film in their own country. If the boundless internal market is allowed to prevail, a large number of Danish films will not be able to obtain foreign cofinancing and will never be produced. The same applies to films from a number of other countries. Multinational companies would have sprayed films according to the same template, while in return it would have been doubtful whether successful films and good films, if one were allowed to have a subjective assessment of it, as the huntsman would have seen the light of day. At present, it is not clear where the EU rules in this area end. All the more important, then, is that we take an active part in trying to prevent frontier-free market fundamentalists from getting the last word. That is why I am also pleased that it seems that a unanimous Parliament today can agree to require the government to work actively to preserve the conditions and then I quote from our joint proposal for adoption •... there is a prerequisite for the continued development and production of Danish audiovisual content, as the proposal for adoption so accurately states. We in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party can fully support this request, just as we naturally support the proposal for adoption. Then a question debate and a mandate in the Committee on European Affairs are not quite the same. There will be a situation in which a mandate must be given, and what is then interesting is what is being said by the government as a recommendation for the mandate. There I have the suggestion that we can do it very, very briefly, by the Minister taking the floor here today and saying that the Minister will put the essential emphasis on what is stated in this statement, because then everyone who knows criminology and EU code language knows that crucial importance means that the government cannot support EU legislation unless the things that are stated in this proposal for adoption are fulfilled. So I think that we should hopefully agree to take the small practical step forward, that is to say that the Minister agrees that the government will attach decisive importance to the fulfilment of the points contained in the opinion. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318110142	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line with Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318110203	In the Liberal Alliance, we are basically pleased that the European Commission has taken the initiative for plans for a digital internal market because it takes account of a time when digital services are also flowing across borders. Our position in principle is that when the market develops, new opportunities are also opened up for the players and that it is basically up to the players to adapt to the new reality. At the same time, we agree with the Minister that the new European rules should regulate as little as possible, but take maximum account of the maintenance of voluntary agreements, including the Danish contract licence. We therefore support the proposed proposal for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318110250	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318110300	We are, in fact, very pleased with this question debate, perhaps not so much because of the debate that is taking place here today, but because we have actually talked about this very important European issue across the parties up to today's debate. Because in this European eagerness to secure jobs and growth, we must be careful not to remove the basis of life for the creative industry, which is already under pressure, because digitalisation, like it, has created completely new opportunities that have not just been understood to respond to. So we need to strike a balance between ensuring opportunities for users while at the same time ensuring the profitability of the creative industry. Therefore, the regulation should also be aware that there are major differences in the creative industry, for example, in relation to how funding is carried out in the music and film industry. That is why we are pleased that the government writes in its position paper that the right balance must be struck between the interests of rightholders and society in the availability of creative content in a non-bureaucratic way. We believe that in the negotiations we should be aware of not inappropriately favouring multinational companies and that we should also protect our own film and music production and creative production. We are a small language area and that requires special attention. So we are therefore pleased to be co-sponsors of DF's proposal for adoption. We think it is important that the government should continue to work actively for these views, and we are also pleased that the Folketing is working together for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318110450	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. And then it's sir. Emrah Tuncer, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318110500	The query addresses an important challenge, so thank you to DF for it. We must ensure an effective internal market. However, this must be done in a way that does not undermine copyright. We are very much in agreement with that, because we actually have an agreement licensing model that works. The Radical Left is of the opinion, as is also stated in the proposal for adoption, that new EU legislation should not prevent the application of the Danish agreement licensing system and that when modernising copyright in the EU, account should be taken of the special circumstances of the television and film industry, including focusing on voluntary contractual solutions instead of legislation. That is why we support the government's position paper, in particular the conditions necessary for the continued development and production of Danish audiovisual content before making concrete legislative proposals. So in these words, we support the proposal for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318110550	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318110601	Many wise things have been said earlier in the debate, which I shall not repeat. I would just like to mention at the outset that this is, of course, a great deal about two fundamental issues: firstly, how to secure copyright in a digital age, so that artists, culturalists and producers can be paid for the work they produce, and secondly, the European Commission and the European Union's internal market, which then plays a role alongside the more general issue. It is, of course, a balance which must be found between the various considerations which are, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist said very wisely in his speech before. I think that the Danish agreement licensing model has proved to be a good tool in relation to the overall challenges of ensuring payment to artists and cultural people when art and culture are digitised, as we see more and more. That is why it is a good thing that we are discussing this discussion today. One might ask whether it is perhaps a suitable forum with such a question debate. After all, we are all in agreement, in other words, all the parties and the government are in agreement, but it is all right that we should then at least confirm that there is a great deal of agreement here in Denmark that we should fight for our contractual licence model in the European Union. So, of course, we also support the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318110730	Thank you. I do not think the Conservative rapporteur is here, so we must go to the Minister for Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318110746	Thank you, Madam President, and thank all the rapporteurs for their support for the proposal for adoption which Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen was reading. This is a good proposal, and I can assure you, sir. Finn Sørensen says that it will be my mantra in the future in the European Union when these things are to be negotiated. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen summarized very well why we have this debate and why we have the dilemma between copyright on the one hand and the right to take his rights as a consumer with us across borders. I will, if necessary, go to Brussels, of course, and talk to the relevant people, both in the Commission and in Parliament. We've got a former colleague, sir. Morten Løkkegaard, as a Member of this House who has been interested in this for so many years, so we may even have a good scout down there who can do some of the work. At this time, when Danish films have a pure golden age, it would be strange if the Danish Minister of Culture did not fight for the model that has helped us to have this golden age. The model, then, is that, before you make films, you make agreements, and it is that you have sources of funding that can be undermined if you follow what Mr. Finn Sørensen called the boundless market fundamentalist path, which is why we should not follow that path either. We need to find a model that will allow the Danish Golden Age in film production to continue, and which, hopefully, will give better opportunity, once you have bought rights in one country, to take them with you to another country as a consumer. This is probably what has raised the whole issue, and it is of course relevant that the Commission should take this matter on board. Just don't come up with a solution that causes the baby to be flushed out with the bath water.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318111033	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made to the Minister. And it's from sir. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318111036	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I see this as a clear indication that we are going to work for what is here. I should just like to ask: is it on purpose that the Minister used the words, that the things we write here would be his mantra, and not relate to what I was trying to challenge the Minister in relation to, namely to put decisive emphasis on? I think that all the citizens in the country, if someone is watching this, say: what the hell is the difference? However, when we sit in the Committee on European Affairs, there is a very clear difference between the two and no one is in any doubt as to what it means to stress a question or requirement or wish for the European Union and to place decisive emphasis on it. In order to place decisive emphasis on "the law" means that you do not support it unless you meet the requirements you come up with. So will the Minister try to deal with that difference and try to tell us where he is on that issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318111144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318111147	As Danish Minister for Culture, I will do all I can to ensure that what the Danish Parliament will adopt unanimously next week will also last when we reach the European Union's cords. I used the word mantra, but it was not to weaken anything; it was just a short phrase which says the same thing, namely that here we have what the Danish Government will do everything possible to live up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318111221	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318111231	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his very clear words, both in his introductory speech and in his reply to Mr Tugendhat. Finn Sørensen, who can quite rightly expect the Minister and the government to follow up on this proposal for adoption. I trust the Minister when he says that he will do so, with the words he can now say from a platform, and if he does not, we always have a vote with which we can return. To Holger K. Nielsen, who asked why we should have such a question debate when we agree, I would say that we were not a year ago, because then the parties of the Folketing were not even aware that there was this problem. That is why the question debate is a sort of culmination of the work that has taken place, among other things. with contacts with the previous government and the current government, with a hearing which was scheduled to take place in June, but which was then moved to 16 December, and with the position paper, which I have also noted. So all this preparatory work has led to this question debate. Finally, I would like to thank all the parties and rapporteurs of the Folketing for their speeches. I would also like to thank you for the fact that we are all behind a defence of Danish interests and our contract licensing system and our Danish film industry. This is an example to follow, and it is actually a good example of the working and cooperating popular government. So thank you very much for your kindness and for the fact that we could agree on the slightly long draft text for adoption because of the very long words. But it's been a really good day, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318111423	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. No one else has asked to speak now, and the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday 29 March 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318111448	The debate is open, and it is the Minister of Justice first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318111506	The motion for a resolution requires the government to abolish the so-called summer house rule by the end of 2016, i.e.: the rules of the acquisition law, which means that persons who are not permanently resident in Denmark can only buy a summer house in Denmark with the permission of the Ministry of Justice. The position of the proposers on this issue is well known. The Liberal Alliance made the same proposal four years ago. At that time there was agreement among the other parties to vote against and it was rejected. Now we are again trying on the same grounds that the rules are inappropriate, that foreign buyers should be treated in the same way as Danish, and that repealing the rules will contribute to growth and employment in local communities. Let me say that the government agrees with the proposers that growth and development must be achieved in Denmark. We must also recognise that there are a number of challenges, especially outside the large cities, but the government does not agree that the solution should be found in the abolition of the summer house rule, as the proposers wish. Before explaining the government's position on the proposal, I would like to add a few words to the reason why we in Denmark have rules on who can acquire a holiday home in this country. The so-called summer house rule follows from the acquisition law adopted by the Folketing in 1959. The purpose of the law is to give priority to persons residing in Denmark to purchase real estate in this country. The background to the rules was an increasing foreign demand for Danish holiday homes compared with the fact that Denmark is a country with limited land available for leisure homes and leisure purposes. Denmark has not grown since 1959. There are still only limited recreational areas available, but interest in Danish holiday homes among buyers abroad remains high. The rules of the Acquisition Act are therefore as relevant today as they were when they were introduced at the time. This view has been shared by successive governments ever since, which is why, in connection with Denmark's accession to the Maastricht Treaty, efforts were also made to adopt a special protocol, the summer cottage protocol. By way of derogation from the provisions of the EU Treaties, Denmark may maintain the legislation in force on the acquisition of non-full-year buildings in relation to persons and companies residing or having their registered office in another EU Member State or in another EEA country. The consequence of the summer cottage protocol is that the acquisition law cannot be amended if Denmark wishes to retain this derogation to EU rules. They apply regardless of whether the changes take place under an experimental scheme limited to e.g. a specific area or as a permanent abolition of the applicable requirement for authorisation by the Ministry of Justice. If we abolish the rules, we will not be able to introduce them again because of Treaty obligations. What the authors of the motion for a resolution state as justification for the proposal is, as I said, among other things. a desire to create growth in the outermost regions. As I mentioned at the outset, the government agrees with the proposers that growth should be achieved throughout Denmark. The question is addressed in the government's constitution...... together for the future... Among other things, it says that the government wants growth and development across the country, and there are a number of challenges, especially outside the big cities, today. However, the government does not agree that the abolition of the acquisition rules is the solution to those challenges. On the other hand, it is important for the government to develop tourism potential throughout Denmark. The cottage areas are the focal points for tourism outside the major cities. They support shop life, create jobs locally, and thus also help sustain life and development in the community. The Government has therefore proposed more flexible options for the rental and use of holiday homes and possibilities for the construction of new summer cottage areas with the growth initiative • Growth and development across Denmark • More flexible options for the rental and use of holiday homes and possibilities for the construction of new summer cottage areas. The Government has also launched a study on how the summer house law can be modernised. We expect that study to be completed this summer. These are initiatives which together will support better use of tourism potential in, among other things: summer cottage areas. In addition, in the view of the government, it is important to adhere to the fundamental principle that persons residing in Denmark have priority to acquire real estate in the country, and on this basis, unfortunately, the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318111933	Thank you, Minister. And that is the first rapporteur. This is Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318111943	With the motion for a resolution, the Liberal Alliance wishes to abolish the so-called summer house rule. This will mean that foreigners wishing to buy summer houses Denmark will have the opportunity to do so and will no longer have to apply for permission from the Ministry of Justice, as the rules dictate today. Social democracy does not support the abolition of the summer house rule. Basically, we are concerned about what the abolition of the summer house rule will mean for the prices of the Danish cottage market. We are concerned that prices will go up and that it will be harder for an ordinary Danish family to buy a holiday home. However, we think it is very good that there are the derogations that are available, because this means that, for foreigners with a strong link with Denmark, there are good opportunities to obtain a derogation to buy a holiday home, such as the one we have in Denmark. 188 Norwegians did last year. Social democracy also recognises that this is an issue that divides the waters. We want a close dialogue with the communities that are facing challenges in keeping local areas alive. We recognise the need for measures to strengthen local growth and tourism in rural and coastal areas, but we do not believe that abolishing the summer house rule is the right way to address those challenges. On the contrary, we fear that too many summer houses on foreign hands will mean that there will be many houses that are empty a large part of the year and contribute to a more dead than living community where wealthy foreigners only come by a few times a year. All in all, therefore, we believe that there is more to maintaining the summer house rule than abolishing it, and that is why we do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112136	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112141	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur expresses concern that the prices of summer houses will rise if this special rule for the sale of summer houses is abolished. I would like to ask the rapporteur: is the rapporteur also concerned about the 12.522 Danish families who today have a summer house for sale and have difficulty in selling it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112207	Yes, of course, this is a bad situation for those people who cannot sell their summer homes. Nevertheless, we still do not believe that the solution is to open up the possibility for foreigners to buy Danish summer houses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112222	Mrs. Christina Egelund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112228	Well, it is a good thing that the rapporteur recognises that there is also a problem for the 12.522 Danish families who would like to have sold their summer house. I am so little more sorry that the rapporteur's answer to that is that it is just a pity, because I really think that they should also be taken into account in balancing whether it is a good idea or not a good idea to abolish this summer house rule. Another thing the rapporteur said in his speech was that it would probably be wealthy foreigners who would buy summer houses and that they would probably not rent them out. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: on what does the rapporteur base that statement, and is there any data on which that statement is based?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112307	I didn't say the rental thing. But there are several mayors who have claimed that there are not as many foreigners who rent out their summer house as there are Danes who do. I do not have any data here on a stand-by basis, but I would like to look into the matter and return to Mrs Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112329	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112337	The proposal is a re-submission of a proposal from the 2011/12 session, in which the motion for a resolution of the Liberal Alliance suffered a quandary fate, as it was supported only by five members of the Liberal Alliance. Since the Liberal Alliance has grown since the elections, we must expect a little more votes in favour if the proposal is put to the vote, but that is probably the best thing to say about the proposal. We have had good cooperation with the Liberal Alliance in the run-up to the vote on the abolition of the legal reservation. We have also got the understanding that the Liberal Alliance is a if not an EU-sceptic party, then at least an EU-critical party. I guess it's also a facade that the Liberal Alliance has cultivated more and more since 2012. That is why I am somewhat surprised that the Liberal Alliance chooses to retable this proposal. Since our accession to the European Common Market in 1973, Denmark has had an exception to the general provisions specifically prohibiting foreigners from buying Danish summer houses. In other words, it is Denmark's oldest EU reservation that the Liberal Alliance will do away with. It is not because there is much or good argument in the very brief proposal as to why it should be a good idea to abolish the summer house rule. However, there are some ideological considerations that we should be in favour of free trade, and then the Liberal Alliance claims quite freshly that because you can now buy a summer house in Poland, Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania, there will not be West Germans and buy Danish summer houses on the west coast of Jutland. I do not belong to those who believe that ideology is good, nor in moderation. When looking at a problem in Danish society, one must do so on the basis of a consideration of what is in Danish interest and what it is of a concrete reality that meets the Danes. And when the Liberal Alliance suggests that there will be no Germans to buy summer houses, I think the Liberal Alliance is being too full. Much suggests that Denmark is again becoming a very attractive holiday destination for many foreigners and especially Germans seeking a safe resort at a time when terror and unrest are affecting many alternative holiday destinations. So why not buy a Danish holiday home or several Danish summer houses if that option is opened up? The rent of Danish summer houses is marked by the fact that many Danish families have a small extra income by renting out their summer house a few weeks a year. If we simply liberalise it fully, we will inevitably see significant price increases, especially in those areas of the country that are very attractive, and this will make it difficult for Danes to enter the market. I am not sure that the Liberal Alliance is so concerned about the soft values I have mentioned here. It is probably more about pursuing the ideological objective. Then the cozy and idyllic nature of the Danish summer cottage areas is just something you say goodbye to. The Liberal Alliance states in the motion for a resolution that it is now, while prices are at the bottom, that the summer house rule must be abolished. I think that we have been making equally much copy-paste here compared to previous proposals, because in fact we now have the highest summer house prices for several years, and the abolition of the summer house rule will undoubtedly increase prices even further. In the Danish People's Party we are pleased that the Danish politicians up to the EC vote were after all so vigilant that Denmark got a summer house rule. We are defending it and, on that basis, we cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112719	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112724	This was not a surprising view from the Danish People's Party. I would also like to acknowledge the fact that our two parties had fine cooperation up to the vote on the abolition of the reservation on 3 December last year. However, the rapporteur said something in his speech, which nevertheless surprises me a great deal, namely that one justifies a rejection with fear of terror. The story was that terrorists accommodate themselves in resorts and from there plan or carry out terrorist activities. If you follow that logic to the end, the consequence should be that you also shut down the rental of holiday homes, because there is no ban today on foreigners being able to rent a holiday home in Denmark. That is why my question to the Danish People's Party is whether we also want a ban on the rental of holiday homes to foreigners with the justification for terrorism in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112822	I think the questioner should have listened a little more carefully, because I think that the whole passage on safety is very understandable. I understand if people are looking for safe vacation destinations. I have a full understanding of that in itself. I don't think it'll increase any threat. On the contrary, I believe that what is understandable is that many will seek Denmark because Denmark is, and fortunately for it, a very safe country. That's kind of just what we said. I fear that it will increase prices even further, which may make it even more difficult for Danes to enter the market and, frankly, it will upset me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112857	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112900	Thank you. Then I would like to ask something else which the rapporteur also mentioned in his speech, namely that which has been an argument, just as long as we have had this special rule, that for example. Germans will probably not rent out their summer house and will therefore only use it for a few weeks a year. There's just no evidence to say that. We don't know anything about that. It's based on a guess. There must be reason for the guess that Germans are worse merchants or less interested in making money than the Danes are. That is why my question to the rapporteur is this: does the rapporteur think that the Germans are worse merchants or that the ordinary German citizen is less interested in having a good private economy than the Danish one is?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112945	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318112951	If you implement this proposal proposed by the Liberal Alliance, you risk getting a market where prices will be very high and where the buyers of the summer houses that come in may not have any economic interest in renting out the summer houses in the same way as the Danish owners today. So there will be the exact opposite effect of what a large majority in the Folketing wants, namely to create more growth in these areas, more focus on how we could develop our important tourism industry in the future and get even more jobs out of it. I assume that the Liberal Alliance also thinks it would be excellent if we could create more jobs in this sector. Therefore, this proposal is the wrong way to go if you wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318113028	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318113037	Thank you. Since 1959 we have had an acquisition law that has prevented foreigners from acquiring real estate in Denmark. This means that it has not now been the fact that they were aliens who prevented them. That's the fact that you live abroad. That is what is crucial. When we joined the EEC, it was also a precondition that people living abroad should not have free access to buy houses in Denmark, and this was then confirmed once again by the Maastricht Treaty and the related protocol. In short, the rule means that foreigners cannot buy holiday homes in Denmark, and now it is summer houses we are talking about unless they have either lived here for 5 years or have a special family or cultural or professional connection with Denmark. If it is full-year residences, things are going a little easier, but we basically do not have to go into that today, as the issue only concerns summer houses. There is, I must admit, a situation in which the Liberal Alliance can argue for the abolition of the rule. Some would say that it is not fair, some might call it double moral that Denmark has a rule that foreigners cannot acquire summer houses in Denmark, whereas we can acquire abroad. But there are more weighty conditions that speak out against the abolition of the rule here. The further away a cottage lies from the owner, the less it is used, probably only used during the summer holidays, and wealthy foreigners will hardly rent with resulting less trade and less wear and less maintenance of the cottages. I use the term wealthy aliens. I have to say to one of the predecessors on the platform that that is what we are supposed to do. I can already say that, of course, there is no scientific evidence that any particular group would buy summer houses here, but it is assumed, after all, that it is foreigners we are talking about in relation to the law here. After all, it is also assumed that these are reasonably wealthy people, given the usual priority given to a summer house for a foreigner is not a straightforward matter in Denmark, so at least some money will have to come from home. In the Left, we believe that there are more things that speak against the proposal here than there is in favour of the proposal, and we are therefore in favour of maintaining existing legislation. One could have that view, and I have seen some mayors have it, that the law should be amended so that the municipalities themselves could decide whether there should be a ban on the acquisition of summer houses by foreigners in the municipalities concerned. This can give some thought to free municipalities' attempts or, for example, the Housing Regulation Act, which the municipalities themselves can put into effect. I have to say, after what the Ministry of Justice tells us, it's a rather risky path. That is enough point of no return, and if you start to change the rules here, I think you have to realise that the European Court of Justice will interpret the situation there, that it is the whole reservation that will be removed. So if some people go along with the ideas that I can also have some sympathy for, I must say in any case that the EU rules must then be thoroughly examined before you embark on that project.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318113431	There is one brief comment. Mrs. Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318113434	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I particularly welcome the rapporteur's recognition that this rule is double standards. Because it is double moral that foreigners cannot buy holiday homes in Denmark, while we are free to buy all the houses we want in the rest of Europe. I would like to ask the rapporteur two things: (1) Is the rapporteur in favour of the internal market? 2) The rapporteur mentions in his speech and then admits that it is probably an assumption that it will primarily be wealthy foreigners who buy Danish summer houses if they do so freely. My question is actually quite simple: how does the rapporteur know?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318113518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318113521	Thank you. Since I had already pre-arranged the question, I also said that there is no scientific evidence to say that these are wealthy foreigners. But the bill we are debating raises the question of whether people living abroad can be allowed to buy. So as far as one part is concerned, it is of course relevant to talk about foreigners in this situation. To the question of whether they are wealthy, I would say that this is probably a situation in which the foreigners who want to buy cannot have the usual priority of their houses, at least not fully, which Danes can have here at home, and therefore I believe that it will be foreigners who must have suffered on the coffin floor in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318113602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318113605	Thank you. It was good to see that the rapporteur's position is based on a guess or an assumption and not on facts. Then we'll know. I note that there are a number of mayors from the rapporteur's party who have spoken out in favour of abolishing this special rule. It is therefore typically mayors in municipalities where you have quite a lot of summer houses and where you find that many of the municipality's citizens find it difficult to sell their summer houses. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it makes no impression that mayors from the rapporteur's own party actually agree with the Liberal Alliance that this would be a very good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318113644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318113646	To the first part of the question that my opinion was based on assessments and not on facts, I would say that it is hard to let anything be based on facts about a rule that has not yet been implemented. When a provision has not been implemented, no one knows how it is going to go. You can have your assessments, and that is what I have said. With regard to the fact that certain mayors would like to have the rule changed, I would say that I am of course impressed every time I read an article on the rule in that relation, but that does not change the general position of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318113722	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318113733	Thank you. The Enhedslisten cannot support this resolution either. Basically, we really think it is a right principle to say that the people who have chosen to settle in this country have a right of option for leisure homes. This is a good principle, but it is no more square than that there is a derogation in the current rules, so that foreigners who can prove a special attachment, a special affiliation to Denmark, have the opportunity to buy a summer house. We think that is an excellent rule that should not be changed. Then the argument is used that it is because you want some more growth. So you might ask: what are the facts and what are the assessments? As far as virtually all the legislation we are making in here is concerned, the position of the parties is, after all, based on an assessment of the consequences of adopting a given legislative proposal or resolution. And there I just have to say that we simply do not believe in the argument that it should lead to more growth in the areas concerned. I suppose it is such a common logic that the farther away the owner of a cottage lives, the rarer it will be used. Then it's argued that they can rent it out. Well, then I can't understand the argument at all. What would be the point of foreigners buying summer houses in this country for the purpose of renting them out? Why do we have to change an excellent system and a good rule in order to accommodate foreigners who want to do business in holiday homes in this country? I don't understand. Then there's this price thing, which is also a crucial argument. Will this be the case, or will it not be the case that prices are rising? I think, in particular, that the Liberal Alliance knows the market mechanisms, and it is quite obvious that if there are more buyers on the market, prices will rise. We have just been told there, and I am not going to make myself so clever that the price of the holiday home is high. So when one refers to the fact that many summer homes cannot be sold, it may be due to the price, i.e. the relationship between supply and demand. And whether you like it or not, the Enhedslisten is not so enthusiastic, but it is the Liberal Alliance that we live in a market economy, and then it is a relationship that will regulate itself. So that is not an argument either. Then it is said that it is double standards that Danes can buy summer houses in other EU countries, while the others cannot buy summer houses here. That has nothing to do with double standards. After all, it is the decision of those countries that it should be possible for foreigners to buy holiday homes in their countries. Fine. That's up to them. That is not the same as we have to do exactly as they have done. So that argument doesn't add up either. Finally, I would just like to say that it is not necessary at all. It's fine that foreigners come to this country. There are holiday home owners, I have the impression, on the West Coast and elsewhere who rent their summer houses to foreigners in a large way. No one can mind that, that's fine. Then we'll just leave it at that. So we are voting against.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318114110	There is one brief comment from Mrs Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318114114	Thank you. I'm actually a little surprised that Enhedslisten doesn't • what Enhedslisten usually does • care a lot about principles of discrimination. I think that this rule is discriminatory in this way. It also applies to the double-moral argument that it is okay that Danes can buy a holiday home abroad, but when foreigners want to buy a holiday home in Denmark, they are not allowed to do so. I think that is discriminatory and I would just like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on whether it is okay in this way to discriminate against foreigners in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318114154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318114157	This will be a long philosophical discussion, because there are a number of conditions in which foreigners do not enjoy the same rights as Danish citizens. I think the rapporteur basically agrees with this. At any rate, I have not met any suggestion to change the whole basic principle that there are some differences. Then we can discuss the individual conditions, and some we agree that we should change, and others we are not. So we just don't agree here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318114227	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318114229	I'd like to ask you something else, too. There are, as I also mentioned to the Social Democrat rapporteur, 12.522 families, single and married couples who have a summer house for sale. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur also affects the fact that there are areas in Denmark where there are problems with growth. It is true that in some places the prices of the summer houses go up. It's typical in North Zealand. But there are other parts of the country, especially in large parts of Jutland, where prices are quite low and where it is difficult for example. a married couple who would like to sell their summer house to live out their retirement, to sell it. My question to Enhedslisten's rapporteur is: what is Enhedslisten's plan to help these people who cannot sell their summer homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318114310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318114316	Now I am not a housing rapporteur, so I shall not be able to say whether there are other areas in our parliamentary group working on some things in relation to it, but I do not think we have any plans for it. When we talk about leisure homes, people have chosen to buy a holiday home, and at some point they decide that they don't want it anymore, and then they try to sell it. In other words, these are the conditions of the market on which people have entered there. This cannot be compared to the situation which we find serious in many rural areas, namely that people cannot sell their perennial residence and are thus caught by the whole of the negative development that is in rural areas, not least by means of centralisation, which lies in the entire municipal reform and the whole economic thinking of this country. We think that is a major problem. There we have some suggestions on how we can help those people, but we have no plans for us to do something similar in relation to summer homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318114412	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318114419	In the alternative, we want and work for better and more progressive European cooperation. Better European cooperation is a community and binding cooperation in which all the Member States of the European Union come together to make the best solutions for our pan-European project. A better EU therefore also requires all countries to buy into the Community's premise and take ownership in order to implement the common solutions. The Danish exception to the purchase of summer houses is an example of a special rule that is made to protect Danish special interests, which are not even necessarily based on a factual need. I am fully aware of the concerns that there are that it can create deserted areas, that prices explode and so on. These are concerns that I fully acknowledge. But since this debate is continuing to flare up, we must also recognise that it is based on assumptions, as Mrs Christina Egelund has also pointed out, and very little on facts. We can also count on the fact that there is no majority in favour of this motion for a resolution, and would actually suggest that we look at how we can actually have this matter properly examined so that we do not always stand and throw assumptions up in the air without really knowing a factual result of this rule. In the alternative, we believe that there is something quite wrong in principle in that the Danes benefit from an EU rule where they have the opportunity to buy leisure homes in other EU Member States, but that we in Denmark do not allow other people to come here and enjoy a leisure home in Denmark. That is why we can support LA's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318114610	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Emrah Tuncer of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318114621	Thank you. I shall start by telling you that this was a point that we discussed for quite some time in the radical parliamentary group. As a starting point, we have decided to support the motion for a resolution, but having said that, there are a great many issues that pop up, and several other rapporteurs have mentioned them - some conjecture and some conjecture. Of course, there can be no facts in an area where legislation has not yet been introduced, but it might well be that there were some experts who were smarter than us sitting here in this area and who could come up with an analysis of which way you think it is going. 'Cause right now we're gonna guess a little bit and we're gonna grope blindly. It is said that outskirtsdanmark is in economic stagnation and suffers from employment. I think we all agree on that. So a lifting of the ban on foreigners' right to buy a holiday home in Denmark can abolish the summer cottage rule, a lifting of the ban may mean that the small merchant, baker and bikesmith can get some more revenue. Unlike other tourists, holiday home owners will come, whether it blows or rains, because the house needs to be looked after. And as owner can And the foreign buyers, cottage owners will put money in Denmark • perhaps more money than the rest of us do. But again, we do not know how things are going, because this could also go the other way, as other rapporteurs have said. It may well be that foreigners who buy holiday homes use it quite a bit and do not want to rent it out. The question was asked: Are they worse merchants than the rest of us? It may well go that way, that they do not make use of continuous rental. Will it mean less consumption, purchases, etc. at the local merchants? And will it then be felt in terms of decreasing turnover of local craftsmen such as carpenters, plumbers, etc.? We don't know. As a starting point, the Radical Left supports the proposal, but we would really like to have an impact assessment of this motion for a resolution by some experts who know something about it here and who can say what way they think it will go. Nor do we believe that our coastlines should necessarily develop into one large Danland, so the abolition of this special rule should not come overnight. It must be thoroughly prepared and launched as part of a long-term plan, where, of course, strong consideration is given to the protection of nature, the environment and recreational values. So we support the resolution, but we really, really want to have an impact assessment of this. We have also discussed whether there could be a referendum on this. It's not something we're up to in this way, but it could be interesting. So once we've got all these things looked at better, we'd really like to see if we can get rid of the special rule. However, if the impact assessment shows the negative impact that I have also outlined, it may well be that we are changing our position. But as a starting point, we think that the special rule should be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318114948	There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Emrah Tuncer. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318114957	The Danish summer cottage rule was part of the conditions for our membership of the European Community as long ago as 1972, and various governments have negotiated it into the Treaty changes that have been since then. The reason we got it was that we are a relatively small country and that there is a very large market just south of Denmark. I think the whole Hamburg area was in the back of the head. It was already said at the time that if there were free competition for the large, affordable audience in Germany to buy summer houses, it could cause summer house prices to explode or at least go up sharply. It was thought that we in Denmark had a very good policy in this area: we have a leisure house market which is available to most ordinary Danes, where they do not have to be millionaires in order to acquire a summer house and which they can enter. This was what they wanted to maintain. That policy was wise and we have always been in agreement with it and we are still in agreement with it. I know that on several occasions proposals have been made that we should remove the rule that this proposal is also about. There was talk of double standards. Well, it's a matter of defending some interests. This is always the case in international cooperation: what are the interests of people? By the way, Denmark is not the only country to have such a special rule. Other countries also do. You are in a special place, and you are particularly vulnerable to development, and we are in this situation if we want to maintain a summer house market that ordinary Danes can enter and buy a summer house, and we want that. I am very sceptical when it is said that there are major positive economic consequences of this. It has been said that we cannot prove that if some rich people from Germany buy a summer house, they will rent it out. If you just have a little experience of renting out cottages, you'll know what happens. Actually, I do. I have a summer house in North Jutland, far away from Copenhagen. I've been renting it out for several years. I can say it's quite difficult. If you have any financial means at all not to rent it out, then you do not. The people who live in Germany and who can afford to buy a cottage and who have to go through all the trouble of renting out the cottage do not. Therefore, it is my claim that there is much, much more reason to bet that people rent holiday homes here in Denmark • it gets many more tourists to Denmark; they will put much more money in the areas where they come • rather than that you have some rich people who buy a holiday home, which they then may spend 3-4 weeks a year when they want to. I do not think that is very attractive; I have to say that. Both for the sake of prices in the summerhouse market and for the sake of the economy, I have no doubt that this is an exceptionally bad proposal and that we must maintain our summer house rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318115327	There is one brief comment. Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318115330	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for the historic roll-out of what the background was for introducing this rule. The premises when the rule was introduced were that, as the rapporteur rightly says, there was a very large Germany with limited access to the coast. That is why my question is this: does the rapporteur accept that this situation has changed, that is to say that this reality is different today than it was when this rule was introduced? Today the Germans can buy houses along the Baltic coast, which they had no access to then.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318115402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318115408	Indeed, it is undeniable that there has been a collection of Germany and that it is possible to buy holiday homes or buy more apartments on the Baltic coast. That is absolutely correct. But I do not think that basically changes the fact that buying a holiday home in Denmark will still be attractive. That is also why the rental to Germans is quite, quite large. And as I have understood the holiday rentals, it almost sets a record here this year. The Germans are unusually interested in coming to Denmark and living on the Danish coasts because there is something special about it. The weather is sometimes quite down Pomeranian to say it out loud, but if the weather is good, Denmark is the most wonderful place to take a holiday and actually also relatively cheap compared to many other places. If you look at the rents for holiday homes, it is not, in fact, because they are particularly high compared to Italy and Spain and elsewhere. As you have nature around you and you can live relatively cheaply, it is still attractive, not least for families with children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318115513	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318115517	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur that it would certainly be quite attractive for, for example, the removal of this rule. residents Hamburg to buy cottage in Denmark. That is actually the whole point of having it abolished, because we have over 12,000 holiday homes for sale in Denmark, which are difficult to sell, we have a country that is breaking over, and part of Denmark where growth has really stalled. So that's basically the whole point. In his speech, the rapporteur said something that I would like to arrest anyway. It was that it is difficult to rent out a house, and it was to support the claim that Germans would not rent out their houses. What is the rapporteur's position with regard to the fact that, for example, Danes on a large scale own houses in Italy and France and rent them out when it is so difficult?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318115600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318115603	I can't answer that last one. I have a summer house myself. I live in Copenhagen, and it's on the west coast. And that is quite difficult, I would say it is, and that is why I have given it up now. That is why I just want to say that it is not something you just do to put it that way. Of course it's possible, but it's not something you just do. About that with people who can't sell their houses: Well, that medal also has two sides. Okay, they can't get their houses sold, but if the prices go up, that means there's even more Danes who can't get in. Finn Sørensen mentioned the market mechanisms. The price may have been set too high by those who want to sell their summer houses, and they should think about that instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318115653	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318115703	Thank you. On behalf of our rapporteur, Rasmus Jarlov, I should like to read out the following: we have the same position on the resolution as we had when it was tabled four years ago. We're against it. We understand that many holiday home owners would be happy if foreigners could also buy their summer homes, because that would push prices up and make them richer. But we see the cottage rule as a safeguard against depopulation and Germanisation of the west coast of Jutland in particular. When the rule was introduced, it was because it was feared that German would be mostly spoken on the west coast in the summer and that people from abroad would use their summer cottage to a lesser extent outside the summer season, which would mean that the summer cottage areas would be depopulated for the rest of the year. So if we remove the rule, there will be major consequences for coastal tourism. We fear that the holiday homes in the tourist areas will be empty for 50 of the 52 weeks of the year, because rich foreigners will buy large-scale cottages, and we know from experience that they will not rent them out, as most Danish holiday home owners do. The abolition of the rule will not lead to the anonymous summer houses 5 km inland, away from the coast, being sold; it will only mean that the attractive summer houses near the coasts will go like hot bread. We do not see that anything should have happened that would reduce this concern today. Denmark is as favoured with attractive summer cottage areas and beaches as then, and Germany lacks them. It will also be disastrous for those companies that have made tourism their livelihood. At national level, tourism creates more than 120,000 jobs and about half can be directly linked to coastal tourism. In other words, the cottage rule also holds hands during coastal tourism in Denmark. We therefore believe that neither the time nor the substance of the proposal speaks for its adoption and we shall therefore vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318115933	There is one brief comment. Mrs. Christina Egelund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318115936	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. In his speech, the rapporteur says that maintaining this special rule is justified by the fear that German will only be spoken on the coasts. In other words, it is a fact that along the Danish west coast in particular, development and growth have been based for decades on visits by German tourists. However, that figure is drastically decreasing and it has quite serious consequences for development in the outskirts of Denmark, especially along our coasts. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is it such a general view in the Conservative People's Party that there is concern that more German tourists should come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318120018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318120019	No, we are not at all concerned that more German tourists should come to Denmark; more are allowed. What is being said in the rapporteur's speech is that this was originally one of the reasons why we had the summer house rule introduced among other reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318120039	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318120041	The rapporteur also says in his speech that one knows from experience that if we allow foreigners to buy holiday homes in Denmark, they will not rent them out as much as Danish holiday home owners do. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: where did that experience come from? Because there are no foreigners who can buy summer houses in Denmark. So what kind of experience are you drawing on there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318120106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318120107	If you compare the number of Danes renting out their summer homes with the number of foreigners, that is a higher percentage. That is at least the starting point for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318120129	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur, sir. Naser Khader. The last rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, who is also the proposer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318120159	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate to the rapporteurs and to the Minister. Several have pointed out that this is a re-submission of a legislative proposal that the Liberal Alliance tabled back in 2012 and, indeed, it is, quite rightly, because we are in fact of the same opinion today as we did at the time. I am glad to note that the new Parliamentary party, the alternative, which was not represented in the Danish Parliament at the time, has today agreed with the idea of abolishing the summer house rule, and I am also very pleased that the Radical Left has taken a new position since we last discussed it, and now also supports the idea of abolishing the summer house rule and also calls for at least a closer look at the matter, so that we do not need to have a debate again based on as many assumptions and guesses as we have been through today. There are, in general, two political clues to this debate, I think. There is, of course, a purely European political clue, because this is an EU issue, and then there is the clue as to how we create growth in the outskirts of Denmark. If we take European policy first, then I am surprised that exactly Denmark is upholding this rule. In all the European political debates in which I have participated, we disagree on a great many things across the parties about how European cooperation should develop, how Denmark's position should be in relation to it and what the future of Europe should look like at all, but if there is one thing that everyone across the parties always agrees on, it is that the internal market is a very good idea. The free movement of goods, cross-border and cross-border trade, freedom of movement, etc., the idea of a free internal market is always agreed across the parties to highlight as the strongest aspect of European cooperation. That is why I am surprised that so much of the Folketing will still maintain a special rule in this area, an intervention in the internal market, especially parties, which are, in classical terms, very EU-positive, the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Socialists. I am surprised that when you say that you are very much in favour of the internal market, you still maintain that part of the market that Denmark has to offer, namely our summer houses, is to keep out of the internal market. I am even more puzzled when you move into the other political track, namely about growth in the outskirts of Denmark, because the summer houses lie by nature on the outskirts and out along our coasts. It's been less than 1 year since we were all in the parliamentary elections, where this growth in the outskirtsdanmark was a really big theme. I do not think I heard a politician say that this was not one of the biggest challenges we face, that is to say that growth must also be achieved outside Copenhagen and the other major cities. The fact is that today in Udkantsdanmark I checked it this morning • 12.522 cottages for sale. It is true that in some parts of Denmark, in Nordsjælland, the sale of summer houses is better, but there are also large parts of the country where it is really, really difficult to sell its summer house, where prices are either falling or stagnant, where lay times just rise and where it is really, really difficult to sell your summer house. That is why this fear, which many people are expressing, amazes me, a fear which results in the protection of the Danish summer cottage market. It is strange when you have 12.522 Danish families, couples or singles who want to sell their summer house, that you want to protect them from people who would like to buy their houses. To put it mildly, I think that is a misguided consideration. Of course, I regret that there has been no support for the proposal today. I think we have had a good debate, although I would have liked to have argued a little more on the basis of facts than on the basis of assumptions. It is assumed that the German families who want to buy a summer house are probably only the rich German families. I have asked many of the rapporteurs where it is derived. You don't really have that anywhere but from a guess book. That's one assumption. The second assumption is that these wealthy German families are probably not going to rent out their summer houses. That's what I've been asking. How do you even know that? And the answer that has come is that you don't really know from anywhere, and of course you have no experience to draw on, because we have the summer house rule, so we have no experience to draw on, as to how foreign holiday home owners will act on the Danish summer cottage market. I do not believe that it is of course also a guess and there is no evidence to suggest that German holiday home owners would be worse merchants than Danish holiday home owners are. Danish holiday home owners rent out the houses because you make some money from it, and it is thus a very good tradition. It is very modern in relation to the whole debate on the shared economy, and there is nothing to suggest that foreign, Swedish or German families who own a summer house would be less interested in renting out their summer house than Danes are, and so I think that the idea, as the rapporteur from the Radical Left and from the Alternative had, that we should now examine what is up and down on these myths and guesses that flourish in the debate, is good so that we could have an impact assessment of how it would be, so that we can clear out some of these old-fashioned myths that come back from the time we joined the European Community in 1973, when the world looked quite different than it is today. I would like to conclude by saying that we in the Liberal Alliance are fundamental supporters of European cooperation. We are very much in favour of free trade and the internal market, and I had hoped that today we could come one step closer to a full normalisation of Denmark's participation in the internal market. We didn't, but we've put forward the bill before. At that time, no one voted in favour of it other than ourselves. Today, I am pleased to note that two parties have voted in favour of it, so if it continues with that development, then next time we put it forward there is actually a majority in favour of it, so I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318120905	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318120909	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur must just correct his statement that all parties agree that the internal market is a good thing. So, the rapporteur must be aware that the Enhedslisten is of the opinion that the EU's version of the internal market is a deeply damaging thing that has led to social dumping in this country. I cannot then spend more time unfolding; we can take that another time. Can the rapporteur explain to me why it is a task for the Folketing to support high prices for summer houses? Because that will be the consequence of opening up to foreigners to buy summer houses. That is the first question. Can the rapporteur explain to me whether the economic logic is involved in allowing foreigners to buy holiday homes? How should this promote growth? There are two options. One is that the foreign owner comes much rarer than a Danish owner - it is not something that promotes growth • and the other option is that the foreigner rents out the summer house, after which the prize goes out of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121022	Thank you. I regret that I was told that Enhedslisten is in favour of the EU's internal market. I am aware that Enhedslisten is not in favour of the principles of free trade, however, but not in the way the EU has arranged it. Is it Parliament's job to ensure higher prices at the summer houses? the rapporteur asks. No, it's not Parliament's job. I believe it is Parliament's job to ensure that we have a free market. For one of the basic conditions, one of the basic conditions for growth, is to have a well-functioning market in which players act as freely as possible. It is my fundamental position in principle that every time we put regulation into the market from a political point of view, it hampers growth. And I think I can say from the 12.522 families who today have their summer house for sale that they would think it would be very good if they could sell their summer house, whether it was to a German or a Swede.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121124	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121126	They will probably think so, but that goes without saying, and otherwise I have completely misunderstood the economic thinking of the Liberal Alliance, that if there are more buyers on the summer house market, prices will rise • that is how simple it will be which will make it harder for a Danish family to buy a summer house. I do not see at all the logic of the Folketing in any way supporting such a development. I didn't get an answer to my second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121203	I do not think it is new that the economic thinking of the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten does not run completely. In relation to the higher prices, I would say that is true. Surely it is no secret that if you expand demand, prices will probably rise in some parts of the country. In other parts of the country, this would mean that people might be able to sell their summer homes without having to suffer a financial loss. If, at last, prices will rise sharply and demand will rise very strongly, there is, I think, a positive outcome of it that more summer homes can be built.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121237	The last brief remark is from Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121241	Thank you. The rapporteur dedicates a very large part of the rapporteur's speech to talking about facts and assumptions: the difference between what some people say from the platform as a question of belief and what is actually the facts of the debate. Nevertheless, the rapporteur says that the rapporteur does not believe that the Germans are bad merchants. I don't think so myself. But the rapporteur must understand that the proposal will be irreversible to a certain extent. If you adopt this, you're gonna open up something that's not gonna close again. I would therefore like to ask whether the rapporteur, on the basis of factual knowledge which the rapporteur must have, can guarantee that summer houses will not rise sharply in price; whether the rapporteur can guarantee that this will not shut down some of these communities that we are building with the help of stronger coastal tourism and other things. There's a whole host of uncertainties in this. Can the rapporteur, with his hand on his heart and with his knowledge of the facts, completely deny that some of these unpleasant things that could happen will come true?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121346	As I also said to the questioner from the Enhedslisten: No, I cannot guarantee that prices will not rise in some parts of Denmark. In other parts of Denmark, it is likely that summer house prices will return to a level so that people can sell them without loss. It is the case for a great many holiday home owners today that they are de facto tied to their summer homes because they cannot sell them at the price they have given for them. But, of course, I think the questioner is aware of that, too, there is a risk that the price will rise if demand is increased. Then it is just that I say that if that is the consequence, then the positive thing can happen, at least in the optics of the Liberal Alliance, that there will be a breeding ground for growth, for example. in the form of increased construction of summer houses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121436	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121503	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 29 March 2016. First of all, we need a explanatory statement from the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121527	Thank you. For some time now, in the people's regime, we have needed a fundamental debate on monitoring. The monitoring debate is raging in every corner of the Internet; it is monitoring our streets and roads, pedestrian streets and much more. The times we are faced with offer some quite exceptional opportunities for monitoring. At the same time, new threats arise, and this, of course, also calls for action. However, the new things mean that we need a fundamental debate on how we will be monitored and how we will monitor the public space. The monitoring debate has been uncomfortable for many years. Although it is an old debate, it has been uncomfortable for many years; something that politicians have tried to avoid discussing from my point of view because it has seemed dangerous, it has worked cross-border, and therefore it has been postponed. I therefore believe that the time has come for us here in the Folketing to find out what the government's thinking is about monitoring public space, but indeed also what the Folketing believes quite basically about this issue in relation to the new threats faced by the people's regime in terms of terror, in terms of insecurity and many other facets. We owe each other that, and we owe it to the Danes. That's why I called this inquiry debate. I look forward to hearing the government, and I look forward to hearing the bids from Parliament's parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121704	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318121714	Today's inquiry debate is about television surveillance in public space. This is a subject which is often the subject of debate and on which there are many different views. For me, it is important to make it clear that it is important for the government to create security for citizens. This means, among other things, that the police must have the necessary and reasonable tools so that the police can solve crimes. Television surveillance can be a useful tool in the fight against crime. We saw that, among other things. During the terrorist attack in Copenhagen in February last year. But television surveillance can also interfere with the freedom of the individual citizen. It may be offensive for people to be filmed in situations for which they are not prepared, and it could create a sense of insecurity and infreedom if the spread of surveillance equipment leads to citizens feeling monitored by people who are not present. In addition, there is a risk of abuse associated with television surveillance in public spaces. As the rules currently stand, public authorities have quite extensive access to television surveillance in public places. Municipalities and other authorities may conduct television surveillance in order to protect public property such as schools, day-care centres, town halls, buses and libraries from crime. In addition, municipalities may, in order to promote security, conduct television surveillance of public places close to an area which is subject to police television surveillance by housing organisations. The police can conduct television surveillance in public places when television surveillance is judged to be objective and proportionate to the task that the police have to perform. The police do, for example. TV surveillance at Strøget in Copenhagen and in Virgo Ane Gade in Aalborg. So there are good opportunities for the police to conduct television surveillance on the basis of a police professional judgement. As regards access for private individuals to television surveillance, the Television Monitoring Act currently prohibits private operators from broadcasting areas used for the general public. However, the law also contains a number of exceptions to the ban in question. This is among other things. allowed for private persons to conduct television surveillance of service stations and factory areas, covered shopping centres and ATMs. In addition, financial institutions, gaming casinos, hotels and restaurants, shopping centres and shops from which retail sale takes place, must monitor their own entrances and facades etc. In addition, housing organisations and associations may, subject to the permission of the police, conduct television surveillance of a residential area and land directly related to it where the monitoring is essential for the purpose of combating crime. It is the Government's view that the balance represented by the current access to television surveillance is reasonable. The Government is therefore not planning to initiate state television surveillance of all central locations in the country's major cities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122055	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then the debate is open, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122134	Thank you very much, President. Last year, Denmark was hit by terror, and in the pursuit of the culprit, there was great benefit and benefit from surveillance cameras that could document large parts of this terrorist's movements. Danmarks Radio has subsequently mapped that 75%. of the surveillance cameras that were used in the effort to find out where this person had been moving around was illegally suspended. I can't imagine the cops using those pictures, of course. Because in pursuit of a madman who wants to kill, almost all means must be allowed to ensure that he can be captured. What I do not understand is that with the knowledge that you have, that a very large part of the surveillance cameras hanging in private are illegally suspended, you do not take a fundamental debate on how to correct the rules. There's a huge dilemma here. On the one hand, we all want to have the best possible security against terrorism or other very serious things that could cost us our lives. On the other hand, we have the balance in terms of privacy in relation to the fact that we should not have total surveillance of the public space. It is an important debate, and it is important that the Folketing and the government find the limit of what we want from surveillance, so that we can both get to the collar of the terrorist, but at the same time also ensure that we can have a society that is tolerable to live in and that is not subject to total surveillance. But this debate has been neglected by the Danish Parliament for a number of years, and that's not okay. When we find ourselves in a situation where there are virtually wildwest conditions in relation to the monitoring of the public space by private actors, this must primarily be due to the fact that the rules we have are no longer up to date, i.e. people moving further beyond the border, either because the rules are too tight or because the opportunities that have come have simply surprised us and overtaken the current rules within. Surely we need to discuss this. The situation we are faced with now means that when you make a video register, as a pilot project here in Copenhagen, which the Danish People's Party supports, and which hopefully can be deployed as quickly as possible to the rest of the country, we risk that it will only include cameras that have been reported voluntarily. Now, of course, I don't know, because I never owned a business or a store, but I think that if I had and I had an illegal video camera hanging, I wouldn't have contacted the police, because then you could risk a fine or you could have to correct the camera that you want, because you want the best pictures. This means that, on the one hand, we are at risk of having a register which does not include the cameras we would like to have, and, on the other hand, in cases where Denmark could be hit by a terrible attack, we will still have to send out important resources in the form of police officers on the street to find the cameras we might need. It is, after all, a balance that is totally, totally untenable. That is why there are two options for us. You either have to break the rules or expand people's ability to monitor in public too, so that they have the opportunity to correct those cameras and, of course, you can say that the rules have to be kept. Because, as it is today, you turn your back on even when it comes to cameras that are illegally suspended. I think we should have rules where we can ensure that the rules are actually observed in practice, where things are orderly and where things are under control. But that requires either new rules or saying that it will be a larger state task in the future and that, in this context, much more state supervision is being undertaken than is currently the case. In the Danish People's Party, we are quite ready to correct the rules and ensure that there will be a further opportunity, not to legalize all the monitoring that exists today, but to ensure that there is a framework where you can monitor the public space, your own private property, your own business, your business, or whatever it may be, without it being like now, where it is purely wildwest conditions. We can't have that. Against this background, I would urge the Danish Parliament to adopt the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government to initiate a relaxation of the rules on video surveillance in public spaces and/or to initiate state video surveillance of central sites in the country's cities with a view to creating security for citizens and facilitating the detection of serious crimes, including terrorism. V 38). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122631	There is one brief comment. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122635	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for raising this debate. The rapporteur said that we need a fundamental debate on video surveillance, and I think that is quite right, despite the fact that we are certainly looking at what should come of it differently. But this is an important fundamental debate, so I would like to thank you for that. I would like to know whether the rapporteur is aware of the seven principles of television surveillance of the Crime Prevention Council and, if so, if so, whether he believes that they are at least as principles applicable to what he and DF want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122710-2	I am not in a position to say that on a stand-by basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122721	Thank you. And of course that's all right, because now I'm just pulling it out of my pocket. But I think that these are some good principles that can be implemented very differently, and some of them I should not list them all up and act among other things. on proportionality, transparency, responsibility and independent control body, etc. I do not think I have heard anything in the rapporteur's speech that goes against it now, of course, it is also a bit fluffy but when the rapporteur refers to a terrorist threat, I would like to ask: can it not be a very long and perhaps forever existing threat, and will it not do so that proportionality becomes, so to speak, elastic in meter terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122757	Yes, it may well be that there is a threat that lasts many years ahead. I hope not, but it is definitely an option. What's going on on the other side of the window here today is that many break the rules... some probably do it quite consciously, others unconsciously... but what's even more horrible is that because the rules are as they are now, you just turn your back on it. Because you basically want these pictures. There I hope that the rapporteur's party will help to look at some rules that ensure that we have a leash on what is happening on the other side of the door, so that, in the light of the fundamental discussion we are having, we are sure that the rules are respected so that we can both catch terrorists, but can also protect privacy in the public domain.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122839	There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122842	Thank you to the rapporteur. It should not be a secret that the Alternative and the Danish People's Party have different perceptions about whether more monitoring is needed and the alternative does not want any more monitoring. But now the rapporteur mentions that the Danish People's Party could well imagine having more state supervision. Could the rapporteur clarify where it is that it is not
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122907	Well, the funny thing is, if you want more surveillance, you just have to stand by and leave things the way they are now. Because now, if you do not do something, you make sure that the rules are as they are and that there is no interference with the rules. I think that is an entirely untenable situation. So in principle, if you want unlimited surveillance of public space, just leave the rules as they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122933	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122934	Can the rapporteur clarify where the Danish People's Party is not
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122943	I'd rather tell you where we want more surveillance, because that's what I'm dealing with. I would like there to be surveillance in key places, places, high-risk places, etc. I think that would be quite obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318122956	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Emrah Tuncer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123000	Thank you. One question: when we dealt with an earlier point, B 71, on the abolition of the summer house rule, Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, and I quote: Denmark, and thank God for it, is an enormously safe country. How does this relate to the proposal here for more monitoring?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123023	I would like to safeguard the security we have, after all. Part of it is that if people do dangerous things, for example. Kills others on the open street or wants to commit a terrorist attack, as I know, then it must be possible to quickly enforce the law and come after them, put them on hold and have them convicted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123041	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123043	Thank you for your answer. Of course we disagree, but I just think that there is something paradoxical in concluding that Denmark is a safe country and that this can then be maintained and maintained by more monitoring, because if it is safe as it is now, then the arrangements are quite fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123102	I hope we did not disagree on my answer that we should come after those who want us to be killed. In relation to the other: Well Denmark is in many ways a safe country compared to many others. But I have the feeling that things are going the wrong way. I have the feeling that our way of life is under threat. That's the way we're supposed to take good care of ourselves. We must appreciate the society we have. We must be willing to defend that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123126	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123137	Thank you. Monitoring is always a balance between, on the one hand, the legal certainty of citizens and, on the other hand, the security of citizens. In the Social Democratic Party we have also long been calling for a register of videocameras for example. to secure this balance. I think I dare say that camera surveillance has come to stay. In fact, the method is becoming increasingly widespread both in the prevention and investigation of crime. So the question here today is not whether we should have surveillance with cameras, but whether the many cameras should be recorded so that they can be used for prevention and detection purposes. It is also publicly known that a video camera register in the February 2015 terrorist case would have saved the police time. Instead of wasting time looking at buildings to find surveillance cameras and then trying to find the owners with access to the tapes, the police could have spent time tracking and pacifying the perpetrator more quickly. That would have strengthened the security of our citizens. At the same time, such a register could also prevent the illegal setting up of surveillance cameras. It will thus strengthen citizens' legal certainty. Having said that, I would also like to say that the idea that more video surveillance and more police in the streets will create less spontaneous violence is wrong. The monitoring discussion is full of paradoxes, so it is important to keep a focus on the balance that the Social Democrat Party, through my speech, would like to highlight. Often surveillance and more police are counterproductive because people see it as a sign that a particular area is very dangerous, or think that if something happens, you don't have to react, because there are police and video. It is not because people are generally afraid to be arrested or recorded on video that they are not violent. Contrary to what you think, it is the public themselves that actually creates order. English research supports precisely the fact that the public even in groups, for example. just when young people go out on Friday and Saturday and party, keep order for each other. This is due to social regulation. Violence is socially disturbing and people are collectively actively trying to avoid it. Therefore, Denmark is also one of the safest places to be. And then there is the paradox that every other Dane wants more cameras in the public room. So there is a contradiction between the emotional perception of what is needed to create security and what research really shows creates security. There are 600,000 cameras in Denmark. We are the most watched country in the world, and yet the feeling of security has not followed. In the past this year, the Government has launched a 1-year pilot project in Copenhagen, testing a test register of television surveillance cameras. However, a register should not only be rolled out in the capital; there are also other areas where it might be appropriate to have it. That is why we need to focus on how to ensure that the owners of the many cameras are actually also registered. Here's where the government's plans are a little messed up. The Socialists want to go beyond mere test projects and sketches because terrorism is a serious problem and it can hit anywhere at any time. That is why the solutions and the efforts must be there. We are therefore calling for a more ambitious plan than the one put on the table by the government. In relation to the state video surveillance, there are experiences from Aalborg, which are interesting to follow. Since 2008, in Aalborg, Virgo Ane Gade has been video-monitored, which I think many people in here know, and I recognise that the preventive effect on unplanned crime is enough to be felt, even as I said earlier, but in relation to the planned crime on the open street, the experience shows that video surveillance has a preventive effect. In addition, experience from North Jutland shows that video surveillance allows the police to assess the extent of the effort when disturbances occur. This also avoids unnecessary use of police resources, which is certainly another important theme in these times. In addition, it helps the police in their investigation work and it reduces the cost of administration compared to the subsequent criminal proceedings because the accused often confesses when he sees his deed or rather atrocity on video. And if he doesn't confess, the video surveillance is a decisive evidence of conviction in court. We will not deny that there may be a need for video surveillance in particular elsewhere in the country. A mobile device could be useful here and perhaps also be resource-saving instead of having fixed cameras. If it can prevent criminals from succeeding in their unacceptable actions and helping to solve crimes or lead to more targeted and resource-saving police action, we must, of course, discuss these things, as well as discussing all other tools in the above-mentioned clearing-up work. So a fundamental opposition to surveillance cameras simply for the sake of resistance does not have the Social Democrats. On the other hand, we do not have a desire for monitoring just for the sake of monitoring. And as I said, it is not because more cameras as such necessarily create more real security. It may feel that way, but the most important thing for the Socialists is that legal certainty and the security of the citizens must go hand in hand at all times, and everything that is about monitoring must of course always be balanced on the basis of what the motive is. I have a proposal for adoption which I would like to read out. It has been joined by the Social Democrats, the Left and the Conservative People's Party. Proposal for adoption The Parliament recognises that television surveillance can be a useful tool in the fight against crime. At the same time, the Danish Parliament notes that public authorities currently have quite extensive access to television surveillance in public places. The Danish Parliament also notes that, in this context, the government does not intend to initiate state television surveillance of central locations in the country's major cities. • V 39).
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123752	We thank the Socialist rapporteur. No, I am sorry, there is one person who has asked for a brief comment. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123800	Thank you. I would like to sign for the rapporteur's speech. I think that there were many such positive elements in the speech, but I also have to ask the rapporteur something: the rapporteur says that there is no desire for more video surveillance in public spaces, at least that is what I hear but, at the same time, when the rapporteur knows that Denmark's Radio can prove that 75%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Because you want pictures like that. I assume that the Socialists also think it is valuable that they can be used in such an important investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123842	Now I and the Socialists never think that offence is the way forward when it comes to promoting a certain objective. The rapporteur for the Danish People's Party also says that these are illegally suspended cameras, so it is only for this reason that it is necessary to look at whether we could do better by getting this register up and informing so-called camera owners about what the rules are like. The rules that exist today find the Socialists to be quite excellent. Well, crime is not the way forward in this context. Apparently, in this context, there was a finding that these were illegal cameras. So I do not agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on the approach he has taken in order to resolve this problem. That is not the way we want to go. We simply want these cameras to be registered and, to the extent that they are illegally suspended, we say: that is not possible, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318123943	In relation to the register in which the rapporteur felt that the government should get a little more on the labels, I should just understand the rapporteur correctly: does the rapporteur think that the government should command officers to look for surveillance cameras? And do you have to tell the cops that when they find an illegal surveillance camera, they have to fix it or pay a fine for it? I just want to be very clear about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124007	In fact, I believe that the legislation is already fairly clear today as to what the police should do if they find illegally suspended cameras.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124018	Thank you to Mrs Mette Reissmann. Then it is a pleasure to welcome Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124028	The Television Monitoring Act tells us something about the areas in which private individuals may carry out surveillance. It's under investigation by the police. The starting point here is that private people are not allowed to carry out surveillance on the open street. You have to be able to walk freely from A to B without being watched. But there are exceptions. In shops there is an obligation to provide information about monitoring. There are also exceptions so that you can monitor at service stations, at centres, at ATMs, at entrances to financial institutions, casinos, hotels, etc. etc. That's private surveillance. The public monitoring carried out by public authorities is primarily governed by the rules of the Personal Data Act. These are situations where property needs to be protected, situations associated with housing associations mentioned by the Minister, and there are also situations where monitoring is important, in the opinion of the police. That estimate can be based on many different conditions. A good example has been mentioned, namely in Virgin Ane Gade in Aalborg, where I myself once had some experience. I have to say that my experience now with video in Virgo Ane Gade in Aalborg is actually that when a case comes to court, typically a violent case, there is not so much to do for the defender, because the proof is clear. The judge can see it on the screen. So we cannot mourn that the truth comes out in this way. So it's at least one example where monitoring can have its justification... no doubt about it. The question then is whether we should have more surveillance in the public domain, and that is what the proposers are proposing here. In answering that question, it has to be kept up with the other element, namely the fight against crime. Monitoring, legal certainty and the fight against crime must be balanced here. Monitoring is a useful tool, but it should only be used to the extent necessary. The question is whether, on this basis, there are grounds for further monitoring, as suggested in the proposal. In fact, we do not think so. There has been a debate about whether to register already suspended cameras. Now you run an experimental scheme here in Copenhagen, and then I find it exciting to see what it brings with it. Clearly, we have mentioned this before with the previous speaker that there will be certain challenges. In fact, one of the challenges is also of a practical nature. It will be a tremendous job to find out who to contact when shops are abandoned, that is to say to change owner. It's about the stores with camera set up. Maybe the camera will follow to the new owner, but then there is at least a new one I had almost said camera host to be contacted. It could also be the property that changed ownership etc. etc. There are probably a little more problems, and that is why I think that what has happened in this area is a very good idea, namely that this test system has been put in place here in Copenhagen. Mr Summa summarum believes that there is no need for further monitoring to the extent described in the proposal, and we are therefore pleased to be associated with the proposal for adoption quoted by Mrs Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124425	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124429	Thank you. I am curious as to what the rapporteur thinks the police should do if they encounter an illegally suspended video camera, for example. in connection with the fact that this pilot project is under way. What does the rapporteur think would be the most correct thing for the police to do? Is it to turn your back and say that the camera could be useful at some point? Or is it to bring to the attention of the owner that this is illegal and that if it does not, he will be fined?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124500	There must be the usual practice, as in any other offence. It is not always the police in Denmark just issue fines. Thank God they have a certain sense of fingertips about what gives the most preventive effect, and they will certainly have that in these situations as well. I am quite sure that one could easily imagine a solution in which they said that something had to be done and that, if that did not happen, firewood fell. I think we have all tried to be taken without a bicycle lamp, where that has been the consequence and, moreover, had an excellent preventive effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124538	Thank you for a clear answer. But that will mean that three out of four cameras will then be non-existent, i.e. those images will simply be gone. Because if the police had been there, it would have been directed in relation to it. It might have been very problematic in such a case. So the question is: Wouldn't it be better for the Folketing to make some new rules, so that they could be revised so that you could go a little further, but at the same time, with a good gut feeling, you could demand that people conform to the rules, because law was law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124612	It is a little analogous to the situation that, because shoplifting has become so commonplace, to the question of what to do about it, one says: Now we legalise it. Well, I don't really think you can. As I said before, I believe that it will be up to the police to balance the situation in the specific situation of what is to happen with the specific camera.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124634	The next brief remark is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124638	Thank you. And from one northern yude to another: we have probably been to Virgin Ane Gade at different times, which is referred to several times, but my question is very serious whether the rapporteur agrees with the Crime Prevention Council and Nina Smith, who say in their fact booklet on video surveillance that one has to be very nuanced and look very concretely at the different conditions when setting up camcorders, because in some specific cases it can be preventive, and in others it cannot be. And in some cases it may have quite unfortunate side effects, such as the fact that crime actually gets more violent and moves elsewhere. So it cannot be said that at all times it will always be preventive or fulfilling the other things that we may all agree on, that we want less of, that is, crime. But it can also have unfortunate and negative consequences in certain specific cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124743	I've actually read those advices from the Crime Prevention Council, even though it wasn't for today. The quotation made by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is actually broadly in agreement with me, namely that a nuanced attitude would be quite fine, referring to places, situations and so on. I can also confirm that we have probably both had the guard in Virgin Ane Gade, although it has been at slightly different times.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124812	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318124827	When we discuss monitoring, whether it's on the Internet, our phones, the mast information, where our phones are, whether it's the registration of our license plates, the handing over of passenger data from airlines, or it's physical cameras in public space, we need to start with something very fundamental. It may be a bit long-haired, but the free movement, free of surveillance, in peace, is a fundamental right of a democratic society. It may seem a little strange, because who really gets bothered by being filmed when you walk down the street. However, we must only think about the totalitarian societies, which were the reason why we started to have human rights and freedoms, in order to know why we should have the fundamental approach. So a fundamental freedom to think and think and do what you want, without supervision, is absolutely fundamental in a democratic society. I would say, then, that when we discuss precise monitoring in public space, in other words in the form of cameras, there are, first and foremost, easily accessible ways of circumventing the most advanced surveillance systems. Those are the kind of guys that Mr. and Mrs Jensen does not take much advantage of, and does not think about, but organized criminals are, of course, trying to bypass surveillance. Therefore, be careful to make it appear as if monitoring can solve all problems. There is no doubt that cameras in public places may be able to intercept relevant information, such as this. happened with the terrorist attack in Copenhagen and that it can help solve crimes. Therefore, there may also be good reason to have cameras in some places that are particularly vulnerable, namely banks and other things, but just be aware that the presence of cameras does not prevent such unplanned crime. And this does not necessarily prevent organised crime. It just wants to be moved to other places instead. So even if you can say that there are no bank robberies, it is not because there are no robberies at all, quite the contrary, unfortunately. It is the position of Enhedslisten in principle that monitoring is so abundantly present in the daily lives of ordinary Danes, including physical camera monitoring, and that there is absolutely no reason to expand it both for the very basic reasons that I started talking about, but also for the purely practical reasons, i.e. that you do not know the effect. Every time we intervene in some fundamental freedoms, we must of course always be able to do so if it is proportional to the purpose we are trying to achieve. And there we are missing, I believe, a mapping of the effect of the camera monitoring that we already have before we have a really qualified basis for further discussion. At the same time, however, Enhedslisten also supports that we get a proper overview of how many cameras there are in private areas.That is what the majority in this Parliament also supports both because it will make it easier for the police to actually use the cameras there are, but also because it gives us a more qualified basis to discuss the monitoring in our society on, if we actually know how essential it is. Then I shall read out a proposal for adoption from the Enhedslisten, Alternative, Radical and SF. It sounds like this: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament finds that the surveillance in the public space in the form of physical cameras, registrations, Internet surveillance, phone logging etc. has increased strongly in recent years and that this poses fundamental problems for citizens' rights to privacy and freedom of movement, which are fundamental in a democratic society. Monitoring of citizens in a free society should be as little as possible and should always be proportionate to the purpose they wish to achieve. Moreover, camera surveillance in public places does not have a proven effect on preventing crime, but often will merely transfer crime to other places. Parliament calls on the government to carry out an accurate and publicly available survey of surveillance cameras in public spaces, which can provide a basis for better and more effective use by the police and provide a more qualified basis for the public debate on monitoring. • V 40).
ParlaMint-DK_20160318125331	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to Mrs Pernille Skipper. So we go to the next rapporteur, and this is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance. No, it sure isn't. It is certainly the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance. He's welcome anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318125347	Thank you. After all, we are a liberal party, so anything can happen, or whatever they say. No, let us start in a completely different place, namely with the question that the Danish People's Party has put to the Minister of Justice about surveillance in the public space with the question of whether the government will initiate state video surveillance of central sites in the country's cities. The fundamental point of departure for the Liberal Alliance is that there is too much monitoring today. I am thinking here of monitoring in a broad sense, not only camera monitoring, but also the issue of monitoring on the Internet, telephones and other things. We believe that there has been a flood of goodwill to increase the monitoring of citizens, and we do not share that kindness. Basically, it is about the right to privacy and privacy. Citizens have the right to live a life without the state going in and checking their way of life, helping to investigate how they live, in what way they do it. You have the right to be at peace from the point of view and from the point of view of the state, and whatever bodies you may use to monitor citizens. This does not, of course, mean that there can never be any need for a degree of surveillance. In the Liberal Alliance, we are in favour of wall-to-wall surveillance of people suspected of serious crimes, in other words of specific people. Of course you have to have the opportunity. The fact that it has to be of all of us, we don't like it. Of course, when it comes to camera monitoring, we need to look at what risks it is that may be present in different places, and we are not opposed to the possibility that there may be special traffic hubs where there may be a risk, for example, of. terrorist attacks where it may be necessary to have camera surveillance. It could be Copenhagen Airport or airports in general, larger stations and the like, but it is already taking place on a very large scale. As far as I understand the intention of the Danish People's Party with this, it is primarily about terrorism, but also about security. So that's the two things, but in that order. As far as terrorism is concerned, it is not immediately our view that more is needed than there is already today. As far as security is concerned, we probably do not share the desire for the effect of monitoring and the idea of what beneficial effects it will have, as the Danish People's Party imagines, because in reality this is often false security, which will only bring about change in the short term, but which will not really change anything at all, and certainly not in the case of state video surveillance, because in that case it is state expenditure, and we always feel a little bad about it in the Liberal Alliance. Then you can also have a longer discussion about private monitoring. It has already been a little in the debate, and it is our view that there must be clear rules on what private people must monitor in their business, on their own grounds and so on, but on the basis of which I am allowed to monitor on my ground. That is, of course, my basic position as a liberal. But it is clear that if surveillance goes out into public space, we need to know what rules should then be, what rules should then be for deletion etc., so there is a guarantee that the others will not be registered and archived. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318125808	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318125815	Thank you. It's funny to ask the Liberal Alliance why they don't want to liberalise a law, but I have to live with that. I have some questions about private video surveillance. The Liberal Alliance says, of course, that this is happening on its own account and that there must be clear rules if it does not happen on its own account, for example. If it's out in front of a business. Is the rapporteur not concerned that a very large proportion of the surveillance that would then be out in front of business is actually illegal? And should we not have a discussion about whether it is because time and the trend in time have overtaken that legislation? Is it not an important debate for the Liberal Alliance to take, precisely in order to ensure that things can be brought into line with the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318125858	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318125900	Yeah, I'm very worried. Yes, I think this is an important discussion. The question then is to what extent it is because the rules are too strict or because we have been too lax to take action against those who do not follow the rules. But we can easily discuss that. Now I have understood the question so that it was primarily state and public supervision that was the subject of today's debate. But yes, of course I am prepared to discuss the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318125932	Thank you. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll and asks him to wish him a good weekend to Mrs Christina Egelund as well. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318125952	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for raising this debate with regard to what the government's position is on video surveillance in public spaces, with a view to creating security for citizens and facilitating the investigation of crimes, including terrorism, and whether the government will launch state video surveillance of central locations in the country's cities. This is the question that the Danish People's Party has formulated. In the alternative, we find it interesting to constantly discuss with each other where the limit is for monitoring and control. What the Danish People's Party announces is that the Danish People's Party wants more video surveillance in the public space, and we in the Alternative do not agree with that. Rather, we want to go the opposite way. We experience time and time again that monitoring in Denmark seems to be becoming more and more widespread. The way we experience it happens with small steps at a time, so that we do not immediately notice it as a population. But suddenly we run the risk of being in a society in which the behaviour of all citizens is monitored to an excessive extent, and that is really the direction in which I fear we are heading. That is why I was also pleased with the Minister's opening remarks from the platform that, as I heard, the government does not want to initiate more public monitoring. Fortunately, the government's announced proposal to introduce session logging in extended form, which is likely to mean mass monitoring on the Internet, has just been cancelled. The reason was that this is for economic reasons and not for reasons of principle. The desire of the Danish People's Party to extend video surveillance in public spaces is a trend that I think we should be aware of. As I said, I think it is going the wrong way. Then there is no doubt that when it comes to the security of citizens, for example when it comes to terrorist attacks, we must, of course, have a system that protects us, but we must maintain the balance between legal certainty and freedom of privacy at all times. My position is therefore that a proposal to extend state video surveillance is the wrong way to go. I think we have enough surveillance and it will go too far. But it is clear that there must also be control of the monitoring that is then in place today. And again: the balance between terrorists and physical security, on the one hand, and our security against serious interference, against our movements being monitored on the other, must always be there. On the other hand, I believe that in some cases video surveillance can also have the opposite effect, namely that it creates more uncertainty. Yesterday, after all, we had a consultation on this very subject in which the Minister said that excessive monitoring could lead to excessive concern. We fully agree with that. The feeling of insecurity can increase if there is surveillance everywhere, indicating that there is something to fear. The Crime Prevention Council has also recently concluded and demonstrated in a report that the Danes already overestimate the extent of crime in relation to the real probability of being exposed to it. At the same time, it can also be seen from the report by the Crime Prevention Council on television surveillance that where we, as Danes, do not want to be watched, is when it gets too close to the private sphere. But the private sphere is also going on public roads. For example: is asked how you feel about walking on Strøget and being watched. And there is actually a majority of Danes who do not want it. Then I would like to add that, with regard to the Omar case, which has also been mentioned from up here, and the private video surveillance that was used in the subsequent investigation, I am, of course, pleased with the way the police did it. Of course, when you ask for help from illegal surveillance to solve crimes, those behind them should not be punished. I am also pleased with the initiative launched to map surveillance cameras, the initiative launched by the Minister. However, just to pick up at the very end, the alternative's position and wish that we keep on the fine line between being over-supervised and, of course, being able to ensure that we can combat crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318130453	Thank you for that, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318130459	I fully agree with the alternative rapporteur on what was said at the end of the speech, namely that it is precisely important to keep the balance in this matter. But that's exactly the balance that I think some of us think has tipped over and where in this house you're not quite honest about what it means. For what the rapporteur warns about, namely much monitoring of public space, is already happening to this day. So the debate is, and should be, what we want this to be, i.e. what rules should apply to public space, because when it comes to a very large part of these cameras, it does not stay within the legal framework. There may be good arguments for this, I think, but we must recognise that there is a huge challenge in relation to the current rules and their enforcement against the protection of all of us against terrorism. Does the rapporteur not agree with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318130551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318130551-2	Yes, but I really have some doubts as to what the rapporteur is asking. But what I want to answer is to say that we do not want more public monitoring. Then there are today a number of cameras set up illegally, and the Minister mentioned at yesterday's consultation that, of course, to the extent that the police are aware that private cameras have been illegally hung up or that they are illegally focused, that is to say that they are illegally hung. Focusing too far on the street, will take action against it. So I see no problem in the rules that are currently in place, and it is clear that if the police are brought to their attention or they themselves become aware of illegal practices, they must of course take action against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318130634	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. The next one is sir. Emrah Tuncer from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318130647	I do not think it comes as a surprise to a lot of people who are here that we are against more surveillance. I recognise that talking about increased television surveillance has such a powerful political signal value; it is such a good way of showing action for a politician. However, the question is whether it works and whether it is a good tool in terms of crime and the fight against terrorism. We know from some international studies that increased monitoring does not work, and that is why the Radical Left thinks that we should not go that way. We need to go another way and put more emphasis on the more human level if you can say it and talk more about outreach employees, street teams, SSP people, etc., and what can now prevent all these things we really want to monitor for happening. With increased surveillance, both visible and invisible, you have not cut the head off the ghost of the terrorist threat if you are to call it that or eliminate the risk of violence. We have only created an order of security in which we make decisions and demand political action on the basis of the risks that are constantly lurking or being said in a different way: everything we have talked about in the context of surveillance technology, that is, the terrorist package, the muddy package and the search zones, are all examples of how we would like to sacrifice a little freedom at the airport, on the streets, at demonstrations and on the Internet for the sake of our security. We eagerly fill the void in a minority's no longer existing collective security with increased security. So it gets a little hairy, but I think the surveillance technology tells us there's something to be afraid of. It activates fear, but at the same time reminds us that someone is looking out for us. But just as happiness pills merely relieve depression without making us happier, surveillance dampens our insecurity without making us feel safe. We've talked about studies and studies before show that in Denmark we have the world's happiest society, and I think that's really, really much about how we feel very, very safe. We also spoke in the previous paragraph about the fact that we are a safe society and that we have a safe country, and I do not believe that we will be more secure by more surveillance. That is why the Radical Left agrees with the text of the proposal for adoption which Mrs Pernille Skipper read out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318130913	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318130929	Most of us believe that television surveillance can prevent crime, which is why there is generally a great deal of acceptance of surveillance. More cameras are being set up without questioning whether that is reasonable. The only focus is on the benefits, although there are no clear indications that monitoring in itself actually prevents crime. Television surveillance is not in itself a guarantee that the overall crime rate will be reduced. In some places, television surveillance has meant that crime has moved elsewhere. There is also a risk that people will use the cameras as an excuse not to intervene if they see something worrying. It is important that we continue to maintain social control and responsibility for each other. These are not my words, but Eva Smiths on behalf of the Crime Prevention Council, who has made a really fine fact booklet on television surveillance in Denmark. Denmark is, as we have heard earlier today, the world's most television-supervised Many of them are illegal, and I have understood DF and Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen correctly, many of them must be legalized. In the SF we actually share the concern that we have suffered from a wild west in Denmark, which is why I would also like to thank DF and Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen to take up this debate. Because, as we talked about earlier, it is an important debate in principle and despite the fact that we may very probably have very different wishes for where we are going, I think it is a very good debate to take here today. Unlike DF, we do not want in SF any more monitoring. And I think these are some wise words from Eva Smith that we need to be very specific and use our common sense in relation to where video surveillance will be useful and where it might in fact just push crime elsewhere or contribute to a general insecurity in society. So the SF cannot support any of the other statements that have been made, but supports the proposal for adoption which Mrs Pernille Skipper read out. And I would like to finish off from up here by quoting our Minister of Justice, who said in December 2013: "We are heading towards the democratic total state, where control is being exercised over everything where the sovereignty of each individual is constantly violated and where a lot of criminals are being criminalised that are not criminals. There are always talented people who can argue that the interests of society or the community must prevail over the interests of the individual, and there is virtually never anyone who speaks up on behalf of the individual. ▪ I think that's really smart words that can be used in different contexts. I think this is an important discussion. We've had the discussion about PNR. We've had the discussion about session logging. And now we have the discussion on television surveillance. It is a debate that is very important, because it is basically about the balance of some principles that we all attach value to, but which we attach different weight to. We, as elected representatives and here in the Folketing, have an obligation to keep the interests of the people in balance between ensuring, on the one hand, that they feel relatively secure, and, on the other hand, that the values that are more fundamental, less concrete and, in the eyes of many, more abstract, but equally important, namely freedoms, fundamental rights, the right to privacy, we uphold, even when it is not opportune. But again: I think this is an important debate and I would like to thank Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen for it. Despite the fact that we do not agree, I hope that we will continue to have much more of these very fundamental discussions in the Danish Parliament as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318131330	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318131337	Thank you. I have a question concerning the first quotation in the rapporteur's speech by Eva Smith, which says that camera monitoring does not work preventively. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether she does not believe that this can help in the resolution of various types of crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318131355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318131357	To be precise, Eva Smith and the Crime Prevention Council were more focused on the fact that it is not always and at all times preventative. It is very specific whether it can or not. I believe that, in very specific situations, it can be preventive, but I also believe that we must be extremely careful, according to the second quotation I read out, in relation to the need to use common sense and that it is important that we continue to maintain social control and responsibility for each other. I mean, a camera can't replace that, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen does his civic duty and steps in if anyone needs help, which I am sure he will do if anyone should be in such a situation. There can't be a camera to replace it. We see, of course, time and time again, that there is crime, including in areas where there is video surveillance, and there are now a great many places in public space. So yes, in very specific situations I think it can be preventative, but in many cases I think that crime will happen anyway. Then there is the second question in relation to the investigation work. We have to say again that we need to be very specific about where we are using this. We need to be very restrictive about where we use it. But I wouldn't say we should never have cameras anywhere. That is not my opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318131520	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318131522	I am glad that the rapporteur says that we must be restrictive, because that means that rules must be observed. The only question is, what rules do we have? Does the rapporteur not think that, in relation to the rules that exist today, we need to consider the specific issue I mentioned myself in my rapporteur's speech that we could easily go in and look at extending the possibility of monitoring today in order to be better able to correct ahead so that we actually managed to ensure that rules adopted in this House are respected on the other hand, while at the same time having the desired weight in relation to freedoms on the one hand and the desire to clear up terrorism or all other forms of crime on the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318131604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318131606	But the rapporteur and I agree that the law must be observed. The rapporteur's solution is that a lot of these illegal cameras should be legalized; it is perhaps a little square. However, I believe that we have too much monitoring in Denmark and that we should go in and be much more specific and be much more concrete, also so that the law is easier to comply with. Because I agree that it is probably not all the illegal cameras that have been set up illegally on purpose. But Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen refers to a specific case, namely the case involving Omar El-Hussein a year ago in Copenhagen. I also believe that we should be very careful to refer to a terrorist threat or to a threat which, of course, many are very concerned about, because it can be a lasting condition. After all, one of the principles of monitoring is proportionality and that one has a specific problem in mind that one would like to solve. And if the public gets the impression that we live in a society that is under a constant threat, it is not proportional, so it would always be possible to refer to: it is a dangerous world we live in, so we should set up surveillance cameras. So I understand what Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen says, and I am in so far as the law must be observed, but with regard to the means to legalise the cameras, we look at it differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318131732	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318131746	The Conservative People's Party is very concerned about the safety of the Danes. One must be able to walk safely and freely on the streets of Denmark without fear of violence and abuse. That is why, as a starting point, we do not object to monitoring in certain places. This can make good sense in places where there is a lot of crime, and we have seen examples in housing associations where video surveillance has had a positive effect on crime that has fallen. Public authorities already have good access today to television surveillance in public places, and we fully agree that this can often be quite sensible. But in the fight for security, we should not put ourselves in prison by watching everyone in every place. A few years ago I was on a committee trip to England in a suburb of London, where I became acquainted with CCTV. It was very interesting to come in and experience how to simply follow citizens from street corners to street corners where one camera takes over after another. When I went to see CCTV, they were very concerned that they had found a guy who had been drinking on the street. They followed him so they could get to him. I have to admit, I asked a few questions. I asked: who then monitors CCTV, which monitors citizens? You said: fortunately, we have a solution for this, because we have some who are monitoring this supervisory body. Well, I said so. Who, then, is monitoring the citizens? And then there wasn't much answer. I just have to admit, it was an eye-opener for me to visit CCTV in England. It was by no means a system I wanted for Danish cities. That is why I also believe that it can take precedence. We want to continue to uphold citizens' freedoms. We do not believe that state television surveillance should be carried out in the large cities of the country. The opportunities that we already have today are, as a starting point, satisfied with. Of course, we would also like to follow this closely, and we are very aware that we must take action against criminals and make it difficult for them to commit their crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318131945	Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132011	I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for having raised this question debate, which has given the Danish Parliament the opportunity to discuss in a difficult time where the borders go, most specifically today for television surveillance. But this is, of course, a discussion that I believe we should constantly have with each other as a true government of the people in order to find out where the limit is for legal certainty and security on the one hand, and criminals, freedom and surveillance on the other, and how the balance between them should be. This is an important discussion. One thing I would like to add to today's debate is that one can of course say why the Folketing keeps talking about it and something like that. We need to put a stake through something that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen mentioned in the quote she used, which I think was a good quote, although I may have one appeal against it. I'm glad when the SF quotes the Minister of Justice. We are a living people's government, and we are constantly dealing with the situation as it is. But because things go a way at some point, it does not automatically mean that things keep going a way. In fact, we have the opportunity in this House to liberalise rules and change rules if that is what we want. I think that is an important point to bear in mind. That is our responsibility, and that is why I think these debates are important. I think it might be possible to put in the quote that was from myself that it is just an endless development against something. But the point is that this matter has the opportunity to change it, if you will, and it is a responsibility that we must bear in mind, and that is why these discussions are important. I do not have as much to add to my speech as I did at the beginning. So I would like to open the door to answering any questions, but the most important thing was to thank the Danish People's Party for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132209	There are a few brief comments and the first brief comment is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132217	I also think that we have some really exciting discussions. I thought it was a very good quote, which I read out, as the Minister of Justice is the man behind it. The Minister of Justice is quite right in saying that one cannot have one set of rules that must apply forever because the world is changing. However, I do believe that the Minister for Justice and I share some basic points about the fact that there are some values that will have to stand for a slightly longer period than the next few years, when everything can happen: some basic values of the inviolability of the individual, some liberal basic views about the right to privacy, etc. These are points of view which I think we actually share. It is always a balancing act and a question of what to put in what weight bowl. That is what is important, and that is why I think these debates are so necessary and so important, whether we disagree or not. So it was actually more of a commentary on the Minister of Justice's comment than a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132325	I fully agree, and the interesting thing is, for example. My party knows that on monitoring issues we always divide into three. The positions that represent the Folketing can be found abundantly in the Confederal Group of the Left. I do not think I am too close to revealing that the debates we have can take on a character where you can hear that the Left are people who always personally think they are right. This is a bit of a radically ill situation, but in the case of the Radical Left it is of course the whole party that is right. That division is basically divided into three. There are those in the Left who believe that monitoring is a natural necessity for defending society against crime. Then there are those who are fiercely opposed to monitoring, because that is on principle. And then there is the group to which I confess myself, which has to acknowledge that monitoring may certainly be necessary in some situations, but where it is then the guarantees of legal certainty in this context, the involvement of the courts in the issues raised by Mrs Mai Mercado, the monitoring of the monitor, which will be the crucial ones, and that balance must be assessed on an ongoing basis. All the more so the debate we have here in the Assembly is absolutely recognizable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132447	The next brief remark is from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132453	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for outlining the government's position. I just need to be absolutely sure that I understand that correctly. Does the government believe that the legislation that exists today is as it should be, or does the debate here give the government the opportunity to make changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132514	The government's starting point is that the legislation we currently have is balanced. But I also have to say at the same time that we are undertaking an experiment in the metropolitan area on camera monitoring and a register in this context, which may well give rise to some new considerations. We are living at a time when there are different considerations in relation to the issues raised in this context. So, yes, at the moment, we believe that this legislation is balanced, but we are not making an attempt to dictate in advance what this attempt might bring about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132550	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132553	Is it not paradoxical that, on the one hand, as a government, we are at least living with the rules so far? They are probably quite good, perhaps we can look at them at some point when this project is finished and that, on the other hand, it makes sense, I would say, in the case of such a case anyway, many of the images coming from cameras that are completely illegal? I think it's a good thing you brought them in. I think it's good that they were used. I just don't understand why actions that are at the common best in trying to make us all feel safe should be so uncomfortable? Is it not a great paradox that, on the one hand, rules are being maintained which, on the other hand, we have to ignore in order to keep us safe? This is not a viable situation. Or is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132641	Now I want to say something that can be easily abused, but I hope it will not be, and I do not suspect the rapporteur would do so. But my basic idea in this context is that life must be lived. We can regulate enough, but there is also a reality. Yesterday, at the conciliation meeting, I referred to the fact that in the end, for example, we are coming. the skillful police we have and its ability to act in the specific situation never to be able to completely replace it. Well, rules will ultimately never be able to replace it completely. I agree with Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen in that we must strive for simple, practical, respectable rules, but we can never ignore the other side. Life must be lived. And in any case, as a lawyer, you learn that the thing about having to have completely square rules for everything is unfortunately an impossibility. Peter Kofod Poulsen Nor is it desirable).
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132740	The next brief remark is from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132747	Thank you. I did not really intend to take the floor, because I think the Minister's statement was fine, that the Minister's speech was fine, so I was informed as to what the Minister's position is. But the reason I do so anyway is the insider knowledge of what is going on in the Confederal Group of the Left, because I thought that was interesting anyway. In fact, I had thought that the Minister had been lying on the wing that was fervently opposed to surveillance, also because the Minister himself called himself the Minister of Freedom. So my question is really: has the Minister changed his position after he has become a minister on the basis of the information he has received as a minister? Or has the Minister always been there in the somewhat boring middle group?
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318132831	I can't believe the alternative thinks the middle is boring. But for my part, I can say that I have always been in that group. And why do I have that? It is because I do not participate in the modern suspicion of our division of power and the institutions behind it. My experiences with Danish authorities have been very largely positive. We all know what has happened in SKAT and such places, but it is being exposed, we are having it discussed and we are dealing with it. And things are being controlled by independent bodies, for example. The courts. I believe that the Danish people's government is far better than the current public debate. I recognise in a difficult reality that something like a secret service is necessary. I recognise, when we look at the logging of mobile phones, that it has produced outstanding results in relation to the fight against crime. And I recognize that in order to fight evil, it may be necessary now to use the means of evil completely patheticly. But that must be done in a democratic context. This must be done in institutional respect. This has been the decisive factor for me, and it is a bit like what I said to Mr Seligman before. Peter Kofod Poulsen: Life shall be lived.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318133000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318133003	But I can support those considerations far along the way. But for me there has been something in the word Minister for Freedom, and at least for myself there is the freedom of the word the right to move around in society without being watched, that is to say to go down Strøget without being watched. And that is why, of course, I agree that there is always a balance, but for me the word freedom is also the right to move around freely without possibly being monitored by state authorities or private actors. So that's just a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318133045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318133047	Well, I think that Mr. Knox... Simon Emil Ammitzbøll has a point in that e.g. As far as private individuals are concerned, there is a point that it is also a violation of freedom to prevent them from monitoring their own private property. It is also a violation of freedom. On the other hand, I fully agree that, in relation to public space and to state authorities, it is not the case that the state should go out and monitor in general. I am, in a personal sense, against that. I believe that personal freedom is important in this context, in other words that we must be able to move freely. Then you can discuss what constitutes surveillance. We have had the discussion in connection with what I call logging because I believe it is a broader issue: what the rapporteur calls session logging. I do not believe that logging in itself in relation to the Internet constitutes monitoring. I believe that if an authority collects the information and uses it, then it is a matter of monitoring. But that is the kind of technicalities that unfortunately we did not have the opportunity to discuss yesterday, which I regret. However, I shall not prolong the debate here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318133149	Then we thank the Minister. I should like to ask whether the rapporteur for the questioners would like to make a round of comments on the debate. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318133211	I would like to thank the rapporteurs, and I would also like to thank the Minister for coming to this debate and giving the offers on how we can bring this together in the future if it is to be done again. On the same occasion, I would remind the Minister that the Minister is not just Minister for Freedom. The Minister is also Minister for Security, and this is very important in this context. Because our country is under threat. Our security is under pressure from the inside and from the outside. This is, of course, a situation that needs to be dealt with. It is our impression that the rules we have today are not sustainable in the long run, and at some point they will have to be changed. We must then just wait for the Folketing to look at the rules and to review them in the effort to make us even more secure than we are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318133303	We also thank Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will take place on Tuesday 29 March 2016 and I have received three motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160318133344	There is an additional announcement to Parliament's agenda today, Friday 18 March 2016: The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has presented a report on the Stateless Commission's report. 4. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. There's nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 29 March 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website. Then I would like to wish everyone a good Easter, and thank you all for today's work in the service of the people's regime.
