ParlaMint-DK_20160405130013	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Martin Henriksen (DF) and others.: Bill No. L 169 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and Morten Marinus (DF): Motion for a resolution No. B 167 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting up of a Language Technology Committee). Laura Lindahl (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 168 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on social credit cards). Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Susanne Eilersen (DF), Pernille Skipper (EL), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Jonas Dahl (SF) and Mai Mercado (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 169 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to have citizens' motion for a resolution dealt with in the Folketing). Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 170 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the legalization of pepper sprays for self-defence in the context of legal emergency guardians). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 171 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the government's mandate for the negotiations on the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive) and motion for a resolution No. B 172 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of the social protocol to the Treaty of Lisbon). Rune Lund (EL) and Pelle Dragsted (EL): Request no. F 29 (The Minister of Finance is asked to explain the financing of the municipalities' expenditure for the reception of refugees in 2017 and onwards), Enquiry no. F 30 (The Minister of Finance is asked to explain the economic situation in the municipalities in 2017 and beyond, including among others: In relation to the re-prioritization contribution, expenditure on the reception of refugees and demographic expenditure) and in relation to the query No. F 31 (Please explain the economic situation in the regions in 2017 and beyond). Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Christian Juhl (EL) and Magni Arge (TF): Request no. F 32 (What can the government report on the status and progress of the chart survey of Greenland waters, including whether the relocation of parts of the Spatial Data Board to Aalborg will have any impact on the agreement reached in 2009 with Greenland's Self-Government that charts of the southwest of Greenland should be created, digitised and newly published by the end of 2018?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160405130214	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405130230	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 86 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 22 (DF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405130257	Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Henning Hyllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405130320	This time I had remembered to press in, and this time the electrical systems worked. That's great. After all, this bill has undergone some changes along the way, and a number of amendments have been tabled, and now there are further amendments which repeal some of the amendments that have been tabled, including by the Danish People's Party. It goes without saying that the draft law was originally only about increasing the speed limits for so-called Tempo 100 caravans and other motor vehicles. Then came some amendments, which in fact dramatically amended the draft law, to increase the speed limits on the roads in the cities for lorries and also on the roads from the current 70 to 80 km and in the cities from 50 km to the signs that now have to be around the cities. If there are signs of 60 or 70 km/h, it should also be allowed for trucks. These were amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party, and we have made a remark in the report that we actually think that it is a democratic problem that we are beginning to radically change some legislative proposals which, in fact, had nothing to do with raising speed limits on the respective roads I have mentioned. Now I understand that there is an amendment from the Left to remove at least one half of this increase in the speed limit, namely that applicable to road lorries, from 70 to 80 km/h, but the possibility of trucks being able to drive, as is now the sign in urban development, is retained. Apart from the fact that, in principle, a legislative proposal is totally amended without sending it in a new hearing or taking the elements in question and making a new legislative proposal, it could then be in the autumn or in the new parliamentary assembly and then send it to a hearing, we also think that it is basically quite wild that we want to increase the ability of lorries to drive faster in cities, from 50 to 60, 70 km/h, whatever it may be. I would like to point out that the length of the brakes will increase dramatically for lorries if the speed limit is raised from 50 to 50, for example. 70 km/h, and that this driving is therefore taking place in urban development, and that it is not just on some four-track bypasses or such around the larger cities. Those are also two-track roads, entrance roads that go all the way into the cities. So, both for one reason and another, we think it is questionable, and we are of course going to vote against it, but would also criticise the fact that we are still being able to change a legislative proposal decisively without sending it to a new hearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405130631	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405130639	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF) and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. For the amendment, 22 (DF), against 86 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstained from voting 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and No 5-9, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 10 and 11 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (S, LA and KF and DF)? They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4 of a minority (ALT), joined by the Committee (except the CF)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405130752	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405130826	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405130845	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-10, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF), on Amendment No 1. Amendment No 11, adopted by the Committee, on Amendment No 11. 12-14, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF), on Amendment No. 15, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL and ALT) on Amendment No 15. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 18, adopted by the Committee on Amendment No 18, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Mark 19-23, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF), on Amendment No. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, for the excellent work done by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and for the excellent work done by the Committee on the Environment, Leif Mikkelsen and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Tesfaye 29, adopted by a majority LotteRod, DF, V, LA and Jacob) or on Amendment No. 29, adopted by a majority (Jørgensen, DF, V, LA and Schmidt-NielsenE. or on Amendment No. 30, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of DF)? Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 52 outside the Lotte Rod (RV) and Jacob Mark (SF) report and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 31, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and CF) on Amendment No 1. 32, adopted by the Committee on Amendment No. 33, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF), on Amendment No. 34 and adopted by the Committee on Amendment No 34. 35-41, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF), on Amendment No. Forty-two, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and CF) on Amendment No. 43-46, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF), on Amendment No. 47 and 48, adopted by the Committee, on Amendments Nos. 47 and 48. 49, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF) or on Amendment No 49. Fifty and 51 members of the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405131158	The debate is open. It's first, sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405131303	Thank you. After all, the draft law here contains a number of different elements, and for many citizens it is perhaps most important to deal with the issue of a de minimis threshold. Many people have probably experienced the rather molboy nature of receiving a check from SKAT on a very, very small amount, and sometimes it may have cost a greater amount to cash the check in your bank because of the fee you had to pay than you actually received with the check. Therefore, a small limit of DKK 200 is introduced. on SKAT's payments and collections. This means that SKAT no longer needs to spend time and effort collecting amounts below DKK 200. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that this is not the case. For most taxpayers, the proposal will have no meaning whatsoever because they will continue to receive claims from SKAT via their Easy Account • one of the things that actually works quite well in the SKAT and which I think many citizens are experiencing works easily and impeccably with the advance statement and payment of excess tax etc. Isn't it in this month in a few weeks that people will experience the joy if they are among those who have paid too much tax last year? Another element is the tax on account of companies. We would like to ask a few questions there and to be a little more cleverer about it during the committee procedure, but immediately that is something that we can support. These are some administrative reductions in relation to both the advance tax and the time limit for reporting and information on cash payments of more than DKK 10,000. including VAT. Finally, this is a clarification of the A tax and labour market contribution for public employees in municipalities and regions, and it also seems unproblematic. In general, it can also be said that the consultation answers submitted to the proposal are positive. So, as far as we are concerned, I am not going to extend the debate further, but to say that we support the legislative proposal with the comments that have been made here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405131455	Thank you. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405131503	Last summer a lot of people saw that they had a giro card, where you had to pay a small amount, or that they had a check for a small amount of, yes, everything from 1 DKK. 20 kroner. Or so. I actually think that a lot of people felt a little ridiculous and thought it was a waste of SKAT's resources that they should sit and send checks out on even rather small amounts. And that's what the government is going to do with this bill, as a small limit of DKK 200 is proposed, which is worth noting.And it's worth noting that both roads apply, both if you're going to have money back, but also if you're going to have to pay some money. It will work in such a way that when you have to have money back, they are first tried out to your Easy Account, and if it has not been possible to do so over a period of 3 months, you can lose the money. It's just to say that it's not the case that you automatically lose them right away, for 200 kroner. can certainly be a lot of money for the individual. But that happens only after SKAT has tried so many times. I would like to say that I think it is positive that something is being done about this problem, the challenge, but I also think it is worth examining during the committee procedure whether there might be grounds for looking at another way of doing it. Because I think that one might also consider doing so, that the amount to be paid back may just be automatically transferred to the tax payment the following year, without the taxpayer necessarily having to have a letter about it, i.e. that it is simply transferred to the annual statement the following year. Maybe it could be a solution to that. For then no one is losing money on it, and at the same time there is a model where the tax administration does not sit and send cheques and papers around on even rather small amounts of money and does not have to deal with it, that a check is not being raised, and then they need to spend a lot of resources to cancel the check. As I have said, we think it is positive that something is being done about it, and the solution that has been proposed, we can in fact live with it, but it is just to check whether the other model could also be a solution. Then there are also a number of other elements in the legislative proposal to which I have no particular comments, so I will not go into that further, but just say that we think it is a really positive legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405131718	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405131723	Thank you for the floor. This draft law contains a number of elements which the previous rapporteurs have already mentioned. First of all, the purpose of the bill is to make SKAT's administration more sensible and cost-conscious. SKAT has for a long time been criticized for sending out payment cards and cheques on small amounts as low as DKK 1, and we would like to meet the criticism. There are too many administrative costs involved, and that is far from the optimal solution that we have today. SKAT should not spend time and money on such small amounts. It is about striking a balance between the value for taxpayers and the cost for SKAT. The bill will make the administration of small payments simpler and more efficient. We propose to introduce a de minimis limit of DKK 200. for payments and collections from SKAT. For the vast majority of taxpayers it will not matter because they receive their claims through the Easy Account, and for them there is no change. To discuss some of the other elements of the bill: the bill will also make the rules more flexible for companies. It is proposed to extend the right of companies to pay aconto tax in connection with the establishment of new group relationships. A longer time limit will be set for drawing up the annual accounts with a view to paying additional advance tax in order to avoid residual tax. In addition, it is proposed to give companies a more reasonable period to report payment of goods or services with a total value of more than DKK 10,000. including VAT. The current 14-day period has in some cases proved to be unnecessarily restrictive. Finally, the draft law amends the collection law with a clarification to make it clear that the deadline for the payment of A tax and labour market contributions by municipalities and regions corresponds to the settlement deadlines imposed by the Public Payment System legislation. On behalf of the Left, I must inform you that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405131926	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405131941	In the Enhedslisten, we are not rejecting this bill, but we would like marginalised people who can get into problems here to be better guaranteed in the proposal. We very much agree that there may be good reason to facilitate the workflows of the SKAT and ensure efficient operation. And if the sending of payment cards and cheques on small amounts complicates and increases the process, we are, of course, prepared to go positively to the bill. However, we would like to point out that it is very small amounts that are being saved, and it may take many years before the cost of system design is earned. If you look at the proposal, you will see that 200,000 kroner is saved by the fact that the use of cheques is cancelled. On the other hand, it costs 4 million. kr. At any rate, there are some figures, some imbalances that are noticed, in the draft law. It is possible that there is a good explanation, but at least there are some things that stick in their eyes there. Nor do we consider the elements which concern the extension of access to the payment of an account tax when establishing a group relationship to be problematic, just as we think there might be good sense in extending the deadline for reporting cash payments so that it is harmonised with the tax return deadline. Then we also think, as several other rapporteurs have said, that this is sensible, and we welcome the fact that the limit will be moved from DKK 100 to DKK 200. for payments from the tax account to companies, because these amounts of a few hundred kroner rarely have a significant impact on companies. On the other hand, we have a problem with the part of the bill which concerns citizens who, for one reason or another, have no Easy Account. The bill suggests that payouts of DKK 200. If you have not been able to send them to a Easy Account within 3 months, you will lapse. We are aware that it is a marginal group that will be affected and that for the vast majority of people it is not a problem because the vast majority of people have a Easy Account. But we have some highly marginalized people in this society, for example. homeless people who may get into trouble with Easy Account and for whom an amount of DKK 200. or less can be of great importance. In this way, we cannot support the bill until this problem is resolved. It can happen in different ways. This can be done by guaranteeing all access to a free basic account. If that were the case, we would, for example, be doing so. could vote in favour of the proposal. And we would be able to vote in favour of the proposal if marginalised groups could be protected from being hit here. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned another possibility in the debate, namely that there may be some sort of automatic transfer to next year's annual report. This is certainly an issue which I find interesting to pursue in the committee's work. Are there any other models we can look at to ensure marginalised groups? That's the only part of the bill we have a problem with. The rest are good and sensible adjustments and efficiency improvements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405132301	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405132312	I should like to welcome our usual tax rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager, and regret that she could not be here today, but I have promised to read our rapporteur's speech instead. The Liberal Alliance is voting in favour of this government's proposal for a sum of DKK 200. for the collection and payment of arrears at SKAT, if you are not connected to a Easy Account. Apparently it can cost up to 190 kroner. to issue cheques from SKAT, and it is therefore obvious that it serves a purpose with a de minimis limit. The de minimis threshold applies to both parties, both the citizens and the SKAT. Having said that, I would like to say that it is strange that in these times when everything has been digitised and when SKAT has so much information about citizens that it is not possible to make even small transfers in a profitable way. However, recognising that there are so many other problems with the recovery of taxes that any steps to debureaucratise and simplify have its absolute justification, we support the proposal. We want the government to start simplifying tax legislation, and we welcome the fact that the government has taken on board our proposal to simplify the legislation on recovery, so hopefully this will mean fewer mistakes in the future. The scale of problems currently involved in recovery is enormous. Hopefully, former ministers and probably top officials are sitting around with red ears. It is simply not possible that it could have come this far without some more than now knowing that it went that way. The lack of recovery means right now that the Danes who pay their taxes, which they must, must bear, and that is incredibly embarrassing. We have proposed to set up a unit in the SKAT, which is to make proposals for the simplification of the tax system every year. We believe that revenue should be set aside for these changes, so that it is actually possible to simplify the system without creating new taxes and charges and thus new problems. The present proposal must be described as being in the easy genre, and that is why we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405132530	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative, as the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405132538	In general, the alternative also thinks that this is a very good proposal. I don't actually see any bad elements in it. There may be some knots that need to be corrected in committee work, but that is minimal. It's not necessarily because we think we're going to make a lot of money to the Treasury by doing it this way. Nor is it the most important thing in our eyes. It is simply to make sense both for employees and taxpayers who receive the enquiries from SKAT, because if we very rarely have dialogue with SKAT, it is essential when we finally have dialogue with SKAT that it is meaningful. We believe that, far along the way, these pettyties will help in a small, yet important area, to restore the confidence we would like to have in the SKAT, and the belief of the citizens that it is meaningful and not the wrong places to use your resources, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405132625	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405132634	On the radical side, we support any simplification of the tax system which can make it more transparent and easier for the individual citizen to administer, and so we can also support the various elements contained in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405132650	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405132702	When there are stories in the press that several hundred times the amount has been spent, perhaps several thousand times the amount charged, it helps to contribute to the view that in here we are living in a little bit of a cheese bell and making some rules that everyone else thinks are completely stupid and make no sense in relation to the challenges we have in all sorts of other areas, and that is why I think it is very good that the Minister of Taxation has taken the initiative here. Of course, 200 kroner. Mr Denni, I should like to Flydtkjær my appreciation for the work done by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Once again, it has to be stressed that most people will not be affected by this, because the vast majority will be covered by a Easy Account. But it is important that we also show that we do not make the system unnecessarily complicated; that we do not spend thousands of dollars on managing refunds in a few dollars. So we support this, and we would very much like to hear the tax minister's opinion on whether even small amounts, which can of course have an impact on people, can not only be transferred to the following year, actually in principle also with the opposite sign. But if you don't, the rest of the bill's under review. This is really what I wanted to say about. I think it is good to clean up where there is unnecessary bureaucracy and where citizens sometimes have to scratch their heads and think: what are they really doing in here? This is a sensible proposal, and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405132846	Thank you. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405132855	This is a very good proposal that we are discussing today. L 124 shows that you can also think reasonable thoughts in the SKAT, understood in the sense that here you are on the citizen's side. A lot of practical problems are being solved here and, as a starting point, it will always be for the benefit of the citizen. So this is a very good proposal from the tax minister, which Conservatives of course support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405132916	Thank you. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405132929	Thank you for the positive reception of the proposal. As a number of rapporteurs have said, the draft law we are discussing today responds to the criticism that for a long time SKAT has been sending out payment cards and issuing cheques on small amounts, and that is a criticism that has been going on for a number of years. I think that many years ago, when I was in the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee from 2007 to 2011, I asked the then government a question about it, and now it is so nice that we can hopefully resolve it. It is essential to ensure that SKAT uses its resources in the best possible way. At any rate, we need to provide SKAT with the necessary tools to cut away the things that by far most of us agree are completely crazy SKAT spends its resources on. There have been examples that people have received a check from SKAT of as much as one penny, because that is what the law says, and at the same time it costs almost 200 kroner. In my opinion, that certainly does not make much sense. It's like a clean Ebberød Bank, as I used to call it, especially because many of us understandably don't want to take the trip to the bank to cash the check for 1 krone or 1 penny. But it is also important to stress that the proposal does not indicate that we believe that DKK 200. I think that's a small matter, too, sir. Rune Lund said so. For some people, $200. be a lot of money. 200 kroner. is not as such a trifle. I understand that the draft law has been asked about what the de minimis limit will mean for ordinary citizens who owe SKAT money, and the answer is therefore that although DKK 200. may be a lot of money, overall it will mean quite little. The proposed de minimis limit is targeted situations where SKAT is currently obliged either to collect small amounts or, where it appears that SKAT issues cheques on small amounts. Firstly, it is important to note that the draft law does not change the general rules on the recognition of residual tax in next year's tax payment, as it is only here ensured that SKAT should not charge small amounts that people owe. Secondly, it is important to stress that the de minimis threshold will not be significant if the payment is made directly to the citizen's Easy Account. In the vast majority of cases this will be what will happen, and if no Easy Account has already been assigned, there will be 3 months to put it in place, as the proposal has been drafted. So all in all, the proposed small limit of DKK 200 is. I would like to say common sense and hopefully an example of the general aim of the government to simplify rules and make relations between SKAT and citizens and businesses as flexible as possible. The same can be said of the other elements of the draft law, where we propose simpler rules on aconto tax and reporting on companies' cash purchases. Among other things, it has to be done. contribute to reducing administrative burdens on businesses. The proposal to allow companies to pay aconto tax in connection with the establishment of new group relationships means that the rules are now made more flexible for the companies. The proposal to extend the reporting deadline for companies' cash purchases of goods and services will allow companies more time to report and thus retain the right to deduct their purchases. So, overall, it is a legislative proposal that ensures simpler and more flexible rules for citizens and for companies, and I note that there seems to be broad political support for the legislative proposal, of course with some of the questions that have been raised from among others. The Danish People's Party and also the Enhedslisten's side, and we are looking at this in the nature of the matter in the committee procedure. What may be I mention it as an opportunity to change the challenge in the proposal that lies here is that if you change a lot, it will require special system adjustment of SKAT's systems, and then we always run into the fact that SKAT unfortunately has some pretty old IT systems where it may prove to be either very difficult or very expensive to make certain system adjustments. But if there is a desire on the part of the Danish Parliament to look at some things in the committee procedure, we are of course looking at what can be done and what cannot be done, and then we have to take the political debate before the second and third readings of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405133403	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405133408	In addition to the fact that the tax minister himself has apparently once asked a question about this, I also think that the Minister deserves praise for following up on it when a Social Democratic tax minister was ready to implement it here but did not achieve it because of the elections. Now it is happening, and it is good to see that on some points we also bring something sensible from the time of the old government. I just want to get into this with those who don't have a Easy Account. I would say that I think the Minister should stick to the fact that those who have a Easy Account receive the money immediately, because there is no reason for them to wait a year for the money to be included in next year's tax. But for those who do not have a Easy Account, I think it is an opportunity that is worth considering. So it is just a commitment that I think we should figure out what consequences it will have and what the possibilities of SKAT are to do so, so that we can get everyone involved in a possible amendment of the bill. We should look at that in the process. The Minister may say on a stand-by basis whether the two things can be combined, i.e. that some get it immediately, and that for some it will be the case that it will have to be included in next year's tax if you do not have a Easy Account after the 3 months.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405133513	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405133517	I'm afraid I can't. However, I can give a commitment that if Jesper Petersen asks a written question, we are of course looking at it, so we are fully aware that we have solved as much of this problem as possible. However, I would add that there may be two barriers: the first is that it may be difficult to create system attachments in SKAT's IT systems, and the second is that it is possible to create system attachments, but turns out to be very expensive. And there we always have to keep it up against how many of these are really about. Then I would also like to comment on something else. It is true that it was a proposal that the previous government also worked on. Now I said that I think there are also citizens who have written and wondered why they get checks on such small amounts, and that is why I think it will be our honour to find a solution to that, and there seems to be broad support for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405133617	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405133633	The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405133648	Thank you. The legislative proposal here has two very different elements, and I can say straight away that we can support one but not the other. The first is part of the government's Finance Law Agreement for 2016, which is about reintroducing the tax advantage for employee shares that the former government, which was led by the Social Democratic Party, abolished in 2012. The second proposal is to introduce tax exemption for compensation from the Danish state for second-hand asbestos victims. We think the government should immediately give the indication that the bill will be split into two. It should actually have been from the start, I think, when it so openly involves such politically different directions. The proposal for a tax exemption for asbestos victims is one that is part of the wage-pool agreement, of which we are a part, and I think it is necessary and proper that there should be compensation from the Danish State for second-hand asbestos victims. It's typical women who washed their men's clothes. Men who have worked with and been exposed to asbestos have become ill, and so many have also been in contact with the work clothes that have been used that have become ill. It is right for the Folketing to decide to give those people a compensation and that it is tax-free. So, of course, we can support that, since it is also part of an agreement on the rate pool that we are part of. The government should have seen this, and hence the two elements should have been in separate proposals. The other thing about employee stock should also have been able to figure out that we would probably have something different about, since it was something we tightened up on while we were in government. In 2012, together with Enhedslisten, we abolished a tax advantage in relation to employee shares in the finance agreement that was then. We did so on the basis of the principle that wage income should be taxed equally, regardless of whether it is paid in cash or in kind or other forms, and that is still a good principle. If you do what is proposed here, you will be able to speculate on paying out parts of your salary as employee shares rather than taxing it as wages, and that will only give you a further tax relief as part of the Finance Act, where, on the contrary, we need to improve our welfare on a number of points. There are some things about revenue that call for special considerations. Because, as I remember, when we tightened up the rules in the 2012 Finance Act, it was calculated earlier that it would generate revenue of 150 million. kr. So, when the government wants to reinstate the employee shares in this area, you set aside 10 million. kr. In the Finance Act, and in what has now been put forward in the draft law, it is said that it costs 60 million immediately. kr. kr. in a lasting effect. And it has to be said that these are very uncertain calculations. So there is a risk here of underfunding your proposal. So the whole thing to make clear exactly what the government has calculated on what it will cost to reinstate this benefit and thus the opportunity to speculate on it too, we would like to have drilled into the committee's proceedings. How do you actually get these amounts? Why are they so different? And has the government underfunded this tax relief? It must then be remembered that when it is included in the Finance Act, it is a Finance Act, which at the same time takes money from our welfare in a number of areas. Education, research, municipal welfare were put under pressure. Now we are in the process of finding a clarification on housing benefits and on the taxation of the funds, both of which were affected because a number of tax cuts had to be made on other points, including these employee shares. As you can hear, we will be voting against a bill to open up this special benefit to employee shares. But a clear 'yes' to introducing tax exemption for compensation for the second-hand asbestos victims. We expect the government to split the proposal into two. I also have an idea of responding to this on the basis of a dialogue that we have had before the bill here. But then we know our position on both of them in advance, if we wish it to be shared.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134121	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134129	Thank you. This bill is part of the financial agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. It is about improving the ability of companies to pay with employee shares. This will also allow employees to become co-owners of their jobs, which will, of course, help to increase motivation and commitment, and this will perhaps also allow the company to be better able to maintain their employees. In particular, I think it is positive with regard to entrepreneurs, who typically have the challenge that it can be difficult to provide liquidity and thus may also be difficult to find money for payouts. After all, it is very positive that they are now being given the opportunity to choose to pay with shares, purchase rights or subscription rights to shares, and thus perhaps also to keep key employees in a new and vulnerable start-up phase. And it's kind of positive, isn't it? As I have said, the concrete nature of the draft law is that you can pay with shares, however, at a value of no more than 10%. of the wage, which is then without income tax, but instead is taxed as a share income when the shares are sold. And then it should be noted that the company also does not get a deduction for the expenses when issuing these employee shares. Who can you issue these shares to? Who can you pay with these stocks? Yeah, it's up to the company to decide for itself. This does not mean that everyone or a few should have it. It is up to the individual company to say who in the company should be able to get it. In relation to the proceeds, as the Socialists have also mentioned, I would also like to make a few comments. Because when we signed the Finance Act, we were told that this would cost 10 million. kr. kr. I would just like to say that this is a development that we will follow very closely in the Danish People's Party and also follow the extent of it. Because it goes without saying that if we make an agreement called 10 million. kr., it should not end with 130 million. kr., as sir. Jesper Petersen of the Socialists said it cost when the scheme was abolished. So that is certainly something that we will follow closely. Then there is another minor element in the draft law which will introduce tax exemption on State compensation for some of the asbestos victims. Of course we support this, but I would also like to say that we will be positive about a request from the Socialists for the division of the bill and vote in favour of such a division, because I could also imagine that there were other parties that needed it. Overall, I can say that we in the Danish People's Party can support the bill, but will follow the revenue effects forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134420	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134429	Thank you for the floor. In relation to this government's first Finance Act, the Finance Act 2016, it was agreed that the possibility of employee shares should be reinstated. The agreement was concluded between the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. The previous government abolished the employee shares as one of its first acts in connection with the 2012 Finance Act. Now we bring back the opportunity. I am not going to go through all the technicalities here, we have already heard a lot about them. Instead, I want to tell you why we support the possibility of employee shares. When an employee is given the opportunity to invest himself in the company to which he or she is a part, his or her involvement increases. As a shareholder one owns a larger or smaller part of the company, and this gives a natural interest in its health and operation. In addition, the proposal also provides for a tax exemption for the reimbursement of certain second-hand asbestos victims. We have taken note of the Social Democrats' desire to divide up the bill, and we are positive about that. We would, of course, like to accommodate it if we wish to vote in favour of parts of the draft law. Against this background, I must inform you that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134551	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134555	Thank you. What is the rapporteur's view of the government's bringing together a legislative proposal consisting, among other things, of: We have negotiated tax freedom for asbestos victims, something that we all agree on, something that we have to do for these people and that it has been decided, as it were, and that it is linked to a proposal on which we know there is a great deal of disagreement in this House? Does the rapporteur think that is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134633	There is no ulterior motive in that. We could also see under the previous government that it was very often a pile of tax weddings when you had a bill. And it is a little the same here; there are so many things that need to be corrected in the area of taxation. It is the resort that has the most legislative proposal, and if we made a legislative proposal for each small part, it would become a great deal. Of course we respect, if you want to split it up then we want to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134654	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134657	Thank you. I'm glad. It's true that, especially in this resort, a lot of things are often piled up. It is so often of what to say, relatively technical nature; here it is something that is very political, because in 2012 in the previous government we abolished tax freedom for employee shares, while everyone in here wants to give a helping hand to asbestos victims. So I am very pleased with the rapporteur's statement and also with the expression by the DF's rapporteur that we are splitting it up so that we can help to vote tax freedom for asbestos victims through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134733	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134735	I am glad that there are many of us who can support tax exemptions for asbestos victims. And there has been nothing in it, it is just a question of trying to streamline, so there are simply no evil thoughts in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134746	There is one more comment, and it is from Mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134751	Well, for the record, when I called for it in my speech and also set a little fire behind it, here's just a receipt that you're of course willing to share the bill. I wish there were better thoughts about employee shares too, but I am not under any illusions about that. So just a receipt for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134806	Thank you. Does the rapporteur wish to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134809	I just wanted to say that thank you and that no, we do not come up with any other ideas about employee stock. I guess it's just political disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134815	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405134830	In the Enhedslisten, we do not believe that there should be a tax concession on shares in the purchase of shares and on subscription rights for shares. After all, the tax concession means that tax exemption for individual employee stock schemes of up to 10% will be reinstated. of the annual salary. For Enhedslisten it is true that we were part of the 2012 Finance Act and we also supported and were part of the agreement to stop the tax concession on employee shares, which typically falls to the senior and the high-paid layers of employees. We therefore very much disagree that, if this bill is adopted, employee shares will now have to be taxed again. The limit of 10%. of a year's salary in itself means that it is the highest paid who gets the biggest tax advantage. It is very simple that the employee, for example. Makes 1 million. kr. or 5 million kr., gets a much greater tax advantage with employee shares than the employee who earns, for example. $50,000. It is simply to gild those who already earn the most. Indeed, it is already more or less explicit in the wording of the draft law and in the comments which state that companies offering employees to acquire employee shares etc. can decide for themselves whether all employees or only some employees should be offered an offer. If we look back on how employee shares have typically been used, there is no doubt. It's top management that gets the new benefits, and it's not a private man. The calculations of the economic consequences of the draft law also clarify that the revenue effects are extremely uncertain and there is not a very good estimate of what it will actually cost the Treasury. It says that the estimate for the lower income must be consolidated in the context of the legislative proposal. Against this background, it is estimated with considerable uncertainty that the proposal for the introduction of the employee stock regime will lead to an immediate reduction in revenue of approx. 60 million kr. Annual and approx. 35 million kr. annual after retreat and behavior. But what is like the bottom line of it is that the revenue effect is very, very uncertain and there is a huge risk of, as Mr. Jesper Petersen also explained that this is under-financing. It is, of course, a plaster on the wound that parts of the proposal are financed by removing the companies' right to deduct when they pay with employee shares, but there is still a bill that has to be collected and that makes it antisocial and unequal, as is the case here in the bill. Then we are very much in agreement with those who have said that this bill should be split up, because we would, of course, very much like to support the tax exemption for the compensation for second-hand asbestos victims. So we look forward to that bill being split up in such a way that we can vote in favour of the part with which we are very much in agreement and against the part with which we very much disagree. And then we hope that the part with which we very much disagree will not be adopted and that the part with which we are very much in agreement will, of course, be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405135143	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405135154	As in the past, I welcome Mrs Merete Riisager and regret that she could not be here today, so you have to settle for yours. But of course it is also a pleasure and pleasure for me to be able to vote in favour of this proposal that we have negotiated ourselves. L 149 on employee shares was a requirement of the Liberal Alliance in last year's financial law negotiations. It is obvious to us that there should be this opportunity for companies to be able to allocate employee shares without being subject to income tax. Instead, the entire prize is considered to be an increase in equity value, which is therefore instead a share tax. The scheme will be a hand-out to entrepreneurs who will be able to credit key employees and link them to the company. It is a small fine bill that corrects setbacks for companies and entrepreneurs in Denmark. However, it should not be a secret that we would generally like to see us being far more ambitious when it comes to taxation of investments and companies in Denmark. The overall and very heavy taxation in Denmark combined with complicated and opaque legislation has created a non-attractive investment climate in Denmark. An analysis by Global Finance Magazine shows that Denmark is slided down the list of the world's richest countries. We are now no. 21 with both Sweden and Norway placed better than us. Growth in Denmark has stalled and has largely been so for 10 years. You can of course choose to look at that big thing, but if we want to leave a prosperous and well-functioning country and society to our children, we should start looking at the way we generally tax companies, income and shares in Denmark. An investment in the future would be that the state kept back with its spending so that we could create new wealth. Unfortunately, the political debate in Denmark is often such that investments in the future are always seen as tax dollars spent and not tax dollars saved. We have to get away from that. It is quite clear that in Denmark there is a need to set entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial urges free, so that enterprising Danes can create new ones for the benefit of all of us who live in Denmark. The Liberal Alliance therefore supports the proposal, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405135433	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405135440	I can start by saying that we also think it is a very good idea to divide up the legislative proposal, as has been noted in the past. So we are actually quite interested in engaging in dialogue on how this bill could be something that we could also agree to in the alternative. At first sight, we actually like the change made by the previous government in that there might be some imbalances that were not wanted. I am the rapporteur for taxation and good distribution, and it goes without saying that we really want the benefits to be distributed in a sensible way. And there's just the way in this bill that there are some opportunities, for example, for entrepreneurs to make the good distribution much better, because it's really hard for entrepreneurs to give wages that are competitive. It may be that some partners have ownership that allows you to keep your tongue straight in your mouth for a long time, but many of those with skills you employ are not as patient. That is why we would like to table a few amendments: 1) One could at least look at whether one could make it even more lucrative for entrepreneurs; here one might perhaps increase the percentage. 2) We would like to see whether it would be more possible to ensure that it was not only the high-profile employees of a company who benefited from these schemes and that it might be said that it was not entirely free, whether it was all or only few who should be able to get it. So we haven't quite taken a position yet, but it's positive that this scheme will try to create involvement and employee involvement in companies. That is why we are actually the starting point for the proposal and we will also be for both if we divide up the legislative proposal. Conversely, it is important for us to see that it is primarily entrepreneurial companies that we are going to help in this way, and secondaryly it can almost be crucial for us it is important that it is all this that comes to our benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405135629	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405135639	As several rapporteurs have said, there are two elements to this draft law, namely the part relating to asbestos victims and their acceptance is part of the wage-pool settlement, and of course we support that, but we are actually quite in favour of the part dealing with employee shares. We think that this can make sense, especially in relation to entrepreneurship, just as in several other companies it can be an excellent way of getting employees involved in the company's development and providing a flexibility that we really think everyone is enjoying. In fact, we have only one reservation, and that is that it is, of course, part of the financial agreement between the blue parties. That is why we are a little interested in knowing where the funding really comes from, i.e. the approx. 35 million kr., which it is estimated to cost after re-run. I do not know whether the Minister could share with us a little, that is, where that funding actually comes from, and whether it is something that is quite edible for what to say?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405135749	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405135804	I recall that we in this House have had long discussions on other issues about where the funding for things that were agreed to with the government came from, so it is always an interesting discussion. On the part of the SF, like other rapporteurs, we want the bill to be split up, and we also appreciate that this is not something we should be arguing about, but that it sounds like it can happen fine. Because if you look at the tax freedom as compensation for second-hand assists, it is precisely something that belongs in the pool of rates. We all agreed on both those who were inside and those outside that it is only fair that we should give a helping hand to those who have been affected by asbestos and the impacts that result from it in terms of health. In relation to employee shares, this was something that we openly went in and abolished in 2012 together with our government partners and the Enhedslisten, because we thought that there was an unfair tax relief and that it is also a tax relief that is very unequally distributed and does not benefit all equally. Sir. After all, Rune Lund is quite right in saying that it is most beneficial to those with the highest salaries. So, of course, we do not support that part. I also think it is important, perhaps in a smaller way, but still in the whole of the more general discussion that I think we can have even more, namely on how to tax and get money for the common fund in the future. I believe that there is a broad consensus in the Folketing that the taxation of at least wage income should be moved to some extent to the taxation of capital, consumption, pollution, that is, smarter taxation. We can also see that the marked increase in inequality throughout the world, including in Denmark, is more tied up both to those who cheat and store billions away in tax havens and make aggressive tax ideas, but also to capital income. So it's really just an invitation for us to take that discussion. I don't think there's a party in here that doesn't think we can do it any smarter than today. We certainly disagree politically, but perhaps we could have a broader discussion of that in committee too, we have had it in the past and continue with it on how we think we can tax wiser. And, of course, there is the political disagreement, which is also very interesting. But, as I said, the SF is happy that we are splitting up the bill. We are going to support the part about tax freedom for asbestos victims and we are going to vote against tax exemption for employee shares.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405140117	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405140127	In the field of innovation and productivity, Denmark has almost stalled. If you measure this relative to other countries, we introduce less, and our productivity is not as increasing as in most other countries, while at the same time we have lower growth than most countries around us. What's it gonna take? Yes, there must be better business conditions, so there will be investment in production and development in Denmark. There must always be an incentive to get something out of investing, and then some new companies must be created. How do you make it that way? Yes, one of the methods is one of many others on the whole palette... is to allow you as an employee to share in the ownership of the company, so that you feel something about the effort and get something out of the effort you make in the company. I mean, there's employee stock. There's a good one. It shouldn't be an ideological fight between the right and the left, or whoever's on either side of the middle here. It is a good thing for the employees that you get the opportunity to get some shares in the company where you put a very large part of your day and a very large part of your effort. It will be win-win for both companies and employees. Having a kind of employeeship that is not there, if you are not also a co-owner of the company, will mean that we can get companies to develop more, innovationally and productivityally. That is why we are 100% in favour of the proposal. We think that this is a smashing proposal that we ourselves helped to draw up and agree on in the context of the financial law negotiations. That is why, of course, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405140305	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there will be no more rapporteurs, and we'll go ahead with the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405140316	Thank you. Thank you for the positive reception of the proposal by a majority in the Parliamentary Assembly too, a slightly larger majority than I had actually expected. So I would like to sign for that in relation to the rapporteur's speech, sir. Martin Lidegaard held on behalf of the Radical Left. It is therefore a positive reception both of the part dealing with a tax concession for employee shares and of the part relating to tax exemption for compensation for certain asbestos victims. I would like to say, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, that if the Danish Parliament so wishes, of course we share the bill. For my part, I can say that, as a tax minister, there was no attempt to get some people to vote in favour of something that they were not happy about, but only the practical thought that I understood that the pool of rates had become aware that it required a change in legislation to translate what was in the rate pool. And there is a little difficulty for a government to suddenly put a legislative proposal on the legislative programme when there is a limited change, with the dialogue that is with the Folketing. That is why the opportunity was there to put it into a legislative proposal that was to be put forward, and it was then this. So there is nothing more in it than that it was a solution to a practical problem. But if the Folketing wants a division, you can ask the Treasury for it, and I will of course see to it that it happens. Then you can vote in favour of those parts of the two legislative proposals that you now feel as a party you can vouch for. What I welcome as the tax minister is that there is a majority for both, so it will be adopted. But if we take the bill as it is here, then it translates into part of the Finance Act for 2016. The proposal improves the ability of companies to pay tax on employees with employee shares. This makes it easier, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, for ordinary employees to invest in and be co-owners of their own workplace. This is important because it can improve motivation and commitment for the benefit of both companies and employees. And in the end it will be of benefit to the whole of Denmark. Then, both in this Chamber today and during the hearing, there have been criticisms and suggestions for amendments. Some are against the scheme, while others want to expand it. To this end, I would just like to point out that the proposed scheme, as also agreed under the Finance Act, is closely aligned with the previous individual employee share scheme. And I believe that a fair balance has thus been struck between the incentive to receive remuneration in the form of shares in the company in which you are employed and other considerations, including among others. the general principles of tax law. It has been stated that the scheme is aimed in particular at high-paid people. To this I would just like to point out that the companies themselves decide which employees are to be offered these employee shares. Furthermore, the government will continue to reduce the tax on the lowest labour income, as is also shown by the government base, so as to increase the profits of low-paid work. The reduction in income tax will benefit everyone at work. The discussions on future tax reform, as most of us know, will take place in the autumn. However, the ambition of tax reductions should not stand in the way of a targeted scheme that can create more motivation and commitment for employees, and that is why the government has tabled this bill. I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place on the draft law and look forward to a constructive committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405140654	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405140700	I actually have a few things on my mind. Firstly, I would like to ask the tax minister why he thinks it should be more attractive to be more lightly taxed and paid with shares than if you had a wage income. Why will it not be the same? Then I think that the Minister for Taxation needs to tell the Danish Parliament a little more about what was raised in the debate, among others, the discussion about the revenue calculations. Why is it that we reach the amounts we are doing and that there is the difference between what was in it when we abolished the concession, at what we now say it costs and at what we thought it cost when we made the financial agreement? That was two things. I know that you have to be careful about shooting a shotgun in these remarks, because then you run the risk that the Minister will only answer one, but I just have one more question. If you want it to pay better to work and if you want low-paid people to benefit more from entering the labour market, why not save all the relief you have given to heirs and larger cars and now also employee shares to be able to make a proper tax relief for people with low incomes? Why don't you do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405140821	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405140822	You don't do that because the government wanted to do both. We have made a financial law with a large number of things which, moreover, create growth and employment when you look at it together, and a number of the initiatives in the Finance Act are something that has been brought to the table by the parties that support the government. It is not the Social Democracy, but in this case it is the Liberal Alliance that has wanted it here, and it is a wish that has been met during the financial law negotiations, just as the Danish People's Party's desire to give more money for welfare, for the elderly, for health has been met, and this is one of the proposals which reflects the overall financial law, which I think is reasonable and which I can stand by. That is one aspect of government policy. Then, in the autumn, we will be lowering the tax on work in general, and that is something we must see in a context. In relation to the proceeds, it is true that 10 million were allocated to the Finance Act corresponding to the revenue effect of the previous scheme, which will be abolished by the 2012 Finance Act. It is clear from the agreement that less revenue must be consolidated in the implementation of the draft law, and this means that at that time there was uncertainty linked to the estimate of the lower revenue. That is not the whole answer, but now the speaking time has run out, so I will try to answer the rest when Jesper Petersen has asked his second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405140942	Here you go, sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405140944	I would like to do that because where does that money actually come from? If it turns out that it has been underfunded in the draft budget, how does the government intend to take the extra money needed to implement this advantage? Then the tax minister will also have the opportunity to answer what was my first question: why should there not be a uniformity in whether you are taxed by pay or whether you are taxed by employee shares? You can make employee shares, even if you don't reinstate this special advantage, you just have to pay a more reasonable tax on it in our opinion. But the tax minister will have the opportunity to answer that here in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141021	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141024	In principle, I can follow Mr. Jesper Petersen in his question and his arguments, but I also think you should see the size of this bill, and it is a relatively limited scheme where the employee can get 10%. of the salary in the form of employee shares. That is why it is not something that I think, overall, that the principles behind the Danish income tax system are being thrown overboard. But it is fair to disagree with the Social Democrats. If I have to answer the second question, then the explanation for a change in revenue is that companies which previously availed themselves of the general employee stock regime, which was abolished at the same time, will to some extent apply the forthcoming individual employee stock regime, and that effect must be taken into account when assessing the financial consequences of the proposal. The financing of outstanding revenue will be dealt with in the general fiscal priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141115	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141118	Thank you. After all, I had one question for the Minister, which was about how this was financed, because it is one of the things we might be a little interested in if we are to support the proposal, which we could, in terms of content, do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141132-2	As I understand it, there is no specific financing point in relation to this initiative. So you have to see that in the context of the Finance Act as such. After all, there is funding for the outstanding proceeds in addition to what has been agreed in the Finance Act, where further consolidation was agreed, and this will be dealt with in the general fiscal priorities. I'd like to enter into a dialogue with Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard on a bilateral level and try to explain further how this should happen if it is a desire of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141205	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141207	I would like to sign for that, because I think that will have an impact on how the matter will develop in the radical parliamentary group if we can find a sensible way of finding that funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141219	I have nothing else to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141222	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141234	The debate is open. And that's first, sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141258	Thank you. After all, it is a series of elements that are included in the bill here. And, of course, it seems to us that this seems to be some administrative relief for various parts of the car industry, in particular, about the leasing rules, as the bill says, that it costs nothing and, at the same time, some of the consultation parties who have wanted to see even more simplification or liberalisation in this area have to be rejected in order to avoid the possibility of speculation seems reasonable. It is also a complex matter, and we will try to follow up in committee on some of the questions raised during the consultation process, but immediately these seem to be administrative simplifications that we can support. The same is true in relation to the price surcharge for wish number plates and the terms of library cars, which are also simplifications which seem unproblematic to be implemented. I would like to make a few specific comments on, among other things. the issue of export refunds. It seems to me to be very commendable, that is to say, that SKAT's opportunities for driving cars out of the country are being improved here. In this context, there is a right to reimbursement and reimbursement of the registration fee, and SKAT has improved its ability to make sure that it is not, at the same time, anyone, for example. In other areas, debts are owed to the public sector, which is in trouble to recover, and in other ways at all to ensure that the accounts are settled correctly. It is positive that SKAT gets more than the 3 weeks to implement it. In most cases, it can hopefully happen quite simply, so that the citizens get the money to which they are entitled. However, there may well be cases where it is necessary for SKAT to have better conditions and opportunities to check whether the correct calculation is made. We attach importance to this. And that is why there is clear support from us for the element of the bill that improves SKAT's opportunities here. Similarly, there are changes to the law on gambling, which sneaks into something else that is mostly about cars. This applies to the management games that many enjoy in different sports. My own preference for cycling has also meant that several summers have spent too much time on manager games; I try to quit. But it is a special form of gambling that differs somewhat from the rest of the gambling market. And the fact that we are giving a regulation here that seems more reasonable to this type of management game, where there is not a lot of money at stake, also seems quite reasonable and as a sensible relaxation of the tax rules. So all in all, we have a few questions for something around, but we can immediately support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141605	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141613	This bill is about making the rules on proportional registration fees for leasing vehicles more flexible and clearer. And it is a question of making administrative relief for the industry. Among other things, it has to be done. The Commission has decided to initiate proceedings under Article 93 (2) of the EC Treaty in respect of aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in respect of aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in the form of aid granted by the German Government in the form of aid granted by the German authorities in the form of aid granted by the German authorities in the form of aid granted by the German authorities in the form of aid granted This is true, for example. amendment of the agreement on the maximum number of kilometres to be driven, amendment of service agreement or extra equipment, and in my opinion these are generally quite harmless things which simply have to make it easier for companies and give less bureaucracy. Then it will also be made clear in the legislation what requirements there are for the information to be included in the contract, and I think that sounds quite positive. I can see that there are a number of consultation responses calling for it to be even more concrete and for a more absolute list to be drawn up, but that could of course be something that could be drilled out and perhaps made more concrete in this respect. Then there are a number of other elements in the draft law that I do not want to go into in depth, but which sound quite positive. It is, among other things, that there is now tax on library cars, that the price of wish number plates is reduced from DKK 11,000. at 8,000 kroner, because the price was set too high and no one bought them. And then there are some legal technicalities that I consider them to be the law of gambling. As the bill has no financial consequences, I can say that the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141752	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141803	Thank you for the floor. The main aim of the proposal is to reduce the administrative burden on leasing companies. It appears from the government's constitution that the government's ambition is to facilitate conditions for Danish companies. This proposal helps to achieve that objective. The bill contains minor adjustments to the rules of the Registration Tax Act. These adjustments concern the authorisation system for the payment of proportional registration fees for leasing vehicles and the rules for the payment of export refunds. In addition, a reduction in the price supplement for wish number plates is proposed. The bill contains a further amendment to the fuel consumption tax law, which proposes the introduction of a technical calculation of fuel consumption for the particularly large passenger cars, as well as some minor technical adjustments. Finally, the bill contains a change in the structure of the fee provision in the Game Act, so that there is a possibility of partial entry into force of the provision. It must be easier to run business in Denmark, growth is too low, and although the abyss may not be lurking around the corner, there is reason to address where it can be done. Business is the engine of growth and therefore business needs to be made easier in Denmark. The expected positive effects, compared with the draft law's comments that there are no significant economic consequences for either industry or the public sector, give good reason to support it. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141932	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405141949	In the Enhedslisten, we take a positive view of parts of the bill. We think, for example, that it is positive that it is specified that SKAT has the possibility to derogate from the 3-week period for payment of export refunds if the SKAT has reason to examine the situation further. That part of the bill means that SKAT must be able to derogate from a three-week limit if SKAT is to investigate the export of vehicles which are ready for registration and which can be deducted from a compensation amount. It is only good that this is introduced because SKAT can then better check incorrect information and is not pressured to have to pay back within 3 weeks. The most central part of the bill, which deals with leasing, is that we and we in the Enhedslisten have traditionally been sceptical about when leasing is used for tax fins. However, in the specific legislative proposal, which we understand, it is a matter of simplifying procedures. The bill says, among other things:: However, this extended right to make subsequent amendments to the lease agreement requires that the actual change does not affect the calculation of the proportional registration fee already made, and the lease agreement must also continue to comply with the other conditions laid down in § 3b for the payment of the proportional payment of registration fee. This means that simplifications do not affect registration fees. Therefore, Enhedslisten can also support this part if there are no other tax fins that could be used. We shall then ask about this in connection with the work of the committee. With regard to the reduction in number plates, we are, in fact, open to a reduction if it stands to believe that the tax base will actually be so much larger that it will be an additional income for the state. However, we are sceptical about the new so-called technical calculation of the tax on large passenger cars. It is, of course, good to find out what fuel consumption really is, but the technical calculation is based solely on the experience of the previous practice, that is to say, the information provided by manufacturers. Therefore, no particular deviations are expected in the fuel consumption assessment. It is, of course, the case that there is good reason to be sceptical about the fuel consumption figures passed on by manufacturers. Well, is that information particularly accurate? An example is given. A diesel-powered motorhome of 2,765 kg is declared to have a consumption of 13,5 km per day. A liter, and that's 8,560 kroner. in annual fee. A weight-based calculation will give a consumption of 7.1 km per day. A liter, and it will cost 20,580 kroner. in annual fee. Then the technical calculation comes in and, as proposed, it will give a consumption of 12.9 km per hour. The volume of solution for injection is approximately 1 litre. So it is a little less than what was indicated by the manufacturers, which was 13.5 km per hour. The volume of solution for injection is approximately 1 litre. But the 12.9 km per day. A liter will then cost 9,380 kroner. in annual fee. The proposal exempts cars up to 2,815 kg, so for this car there will in fact still have to be paid the same, which will be the current tax of DKK 8,560. What is a little bit in all the figures I am mentioning here is that it looks a little like an attempt to make some big cars cheaper in tax. We do not think this is very environmentally sound. That is why we are opposed to that part of the draft law, and we would like to ask you, in the course of the committee procedure, that this technical calculation should be as close to the manufacturer's assessment as we would like to question very much. Finally, on the legislative proposal, we would like to point out that SKAT is once again being charged with expenditure which is not provided from another source of funding. In this context, it is a small amount in national terms: 3.6 million. kr. annual. Of course that is not much money, but we see it repeatedly, and we have had the debate many times already in this Parliament that SKAT is being charged with expenses for which SKAT is not being compensated. In view of the situation in SKAT, where SKAT has been saved in pieces over the last 10 years, where the already planned savings in SKAT amount to more than 1 billion. kr. towards 2019, when SKAT's budget in 2019 will be over 500 million. kr. less, if the majority in the Folketing does not change it and cancel the savings already planned, we find it problematic that the task and expenditure of SKAT should be re-imposed without finding funding for it. In those words, I shall conclude my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405142510	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405142521	In the Liberal Alliance we share the Government's desire that it should be easier to operate in Denmark. We regard it as one of the prime tasks of politicians to ensure the best possible conditions for business operators whose success as a society we are so dependent on. In this light, of course, we are satisfied with the L 150 bill that we are dealing with here. We think it makes sense to reduce the administrative burdens which leasing companies face in connection with the licensing system. The adjustments to the registration fee law resulting from the bill are, of course, not quite the changes we in the Liberal Alliance would very much like to see. We want to abolish the tax altogether, but of course we can support both the adjustments and the reduction in the price surcharge for wish number plates, which is being proposed. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405142608	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405142616	In the alternative, we are very much in favour of having smaller states and more societies, as we call them. That is another word for simplifying and debureaucratising. It's not so very unique now. That is why we also welcome this proposal. We have a few places where we simply have not been able to get to the bottom of what the changes will mean, so I am also looking forward to seeing that in the new calculation of fuel consumption, i.e. what it will actually have in terms of environmental impact? We must look at this in the committee work. We have not yet taken a decision on how we stand with regard to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405142649	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405142700	Yes, here too we are dealing with a legislative proposal which has a large number of elements. The parts which are concerned with amending the fuel consumption tax law, in order to obtain a technical calculation of the fuel consumption of the particularly large passenger cars, are reasonable, just as we also think that the fee provision in the Game Act is sensible, and also the minor adjustments to the rules of the Registration Tax Act. Then I would like to say to the Minister for Tax that I simply find it difficult to fully understand the changes that are being made in the leasing sector here. I also find it a little difficult to see whether it really is true that these simplifications are being made in a way that does not have any significance in terms of revenue. We will therefore have to ask a few questions about this during the committee procedure. It is because we have now had a discussion about electric cars and we do not think it makes any sense that we are granting tax relief to some of the large, heavy passenger cars which are not electric cars, while at the same time we are in such a hurry to shut down parts of the electric car market. So, on this basis, I would say that for all parts other than those relating to leasing vehicles, we are positive, but we are going to ask a little critically about the calculation assumptions and what the consequences are of the simplifications that are being made before we finally take a position on that part of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405142826	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405142840	This bill might look like it, and I think it does, in part, include some snug changes in calculation methods, etc. But I have to admit that I, who is not a technician, simply cannot stand up here today and say that we support it. Now I have great respect for the tax minister, despite our political disagreements, but I think there are so many opportunities that there may be a lot of very political things hidden in this bill that I and our party-staffed economist at the time that was available could not find a head and tail in and that we cannot therefore sign. I believe that a shower of technical questions is being sent to the Minister and his ministry, and it may well end up with a number of things that we can support and something that we may not be able to support. We will then have to deal with that at the time. I also believe that the Minister fully agrees that we need more knowledge before we can say yes or no to this because it is very technical.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405143002	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405143017	It is a very good day to be a bourgeois tax rapporteur, because we have dealt with three good proposals that are moving in the right direction, most recently the proposal that we are discussing now, which makes life easier for ordinary companies, for ordinary Danes, and which removes some of the bureaucracy and, in general, makes the administration a little more accessible in some of these cases, both for leasing companies and others. So that's really good, let's keep going that way. I'll tell the tax minister and the government. For it has been three good proposals culminating in this proposal, which the Conservative People's Party can of course support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405143100	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then the tax minister has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405143105	Thank you. I could only agree fully with the previous rapporteur's speech by Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, but as Minister of Taxation, I will now elaborate on this and give a longer answer. First of all, thank you for the positive reception of the proposal. In the government's constitution • Along with the future, it is clear that it must be easier to operate in Denmark, and I therefore find it positive, as a number of rapporteurs in this Chamber have said today, that the draft law makes the rules for Danish leasing companies more flexible, simpler and clearer. It is not necessarily the same as being easy to understand, but it is an expression of their being more flexible, simpler and clearer. I fully understand the concern expressed by the SF rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, that it may be difficult to understand the depth of the rules. That is why it is quite right to ask a number of questions to which the competent officials of the Ministry of Taxation must then answer. Hopefully, then, there will be an enlightened basis for taking a position on the bill. I now expect that the answer to those questions will show what is reflected in the comments on the draft law, namely that this is not an expression of changing taxation or anything else. It is quite a revenue-neutral proposal, with the simple addition that more resources will be set aside for control in this area. But I will look forward to answering those committee questions. With the proposed changes, leasing companies will save time by making leasing arrangements more flexible. This is a step in the right direction. However, we will also have to take action, and then we will be back at the inspection effort, which I mentioned before, to adhere to certain safeguards in order to prevent any abuse of the leasing rules. In my view, there is a balance here in the proposal between flexibility and protection, but it is good that the Danish Parliament, through questions to the bill, is taking that balance into account. I am also pleased that we are reducing the fee for wish number plates, which were set too high. It's not going to be put as far down as it was before I think it was about DKK 6,000 if I'm not mistaken, but I'm going to land between DKK 11,000. and DKK 6,000. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Whether it is set right will only come to light when it hits reality, but that is what has been proposed. As a starting point, I note that there seems to be broad support for the draft law and, as I said, I look forward to the committee's consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405143350	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no questions, and as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405143413	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405143432	In the Social Democratic Party we work for a Denmark in better balance, and we consider it important that state jobs are located throughout Denmark. Of course, we are also concerned that we can manage the public sector better and smarter so that we can free money, perhaps not so much for hopeless tax cuts, but for more close welfare. For this reason, the Social Democrats also welcome the proposal to transfer a number of tasks and thus 68 years' work from the State Administration's Financial Services Centre to Payout Denmark. In concrete terms, the proposal means that among other things: The following tasks are transferred to Disbursement Denmark's decentralised centres: administration of reimbursement of student loans, collection of over-paid training grants, calculation and authorisation of civil servants' pensions, state subsidy schemes, loans and guarantees to name some. The aim of the bill is to comply with the agreement between the government and KL from last summer and the plan to relocate state jobs. In addition, it is planned that from 2019 onwards, after the implementation of new IT systems, operations can be streamlined by 2-3 per cent. annual. As much as we support the relocation of state jobs and efficiency in the administration, we are concerned that this is being done in a proper manner. That is why we in the Socialist Group are also concerned with the further work of the Committee on Budgets to get a deeper look at parts of the legislative proposal. This concerns, among other things: on the fact that we would like the Minister to confirm that the proposed changes will not lead to a deterioration in the level of activity, quality and service in relation to the performance of the task. We would also like to look at whether the costs of relocation can be kept or covered within the government's relocation reserve. Finally, like HK Stat and HK Municipals, we are involved in diving a little more into how much the new tasks are different from the current tasks in Payout Denmark, which so far alone has carried out objective processing in the municipal area. With these comments, we look forward to the further work in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405143717	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405143732	Thank you, President. This proposal, as the previous rapporteur has said, results in an agreement to have a better balance for Denmark, where there are also state jobs outside the major cities, especially Copenhagen. It is therefore also gratifying that we can see that initiatives are being taken and that something is being done in this area, precisely by the relocation of jobs. This proposal is then about the relocation of the Statens Administration's Financial Services Center to Payout Denmark. At the same time, minor tasks are also transferred by the Danish Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment, which is under the Ministry of Employment, to Payout Denmark, which belongs to ATP. In the Danish People's Party we actually think that Payout Denmark has done very well and has some very skilled employees, and we are sure that they can also manage the administration that is now being laid out to them. Some of the tasks, as the previous rapporteurs have said, are a little different from those carried out so far, but when the employees who come are hired, I think they can do the same. Of course they can. I will not repeat what some areas are being moved out, because Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen explained. It is then from 1 October 2016 that it must apply, and I am sure it will work as well as anything else in Payout Denmark. However, there is a lot of criticism of Payout Denmark that if you as a citizen can't really find out about Payout Denmark, you can't immediately go to the municipalities, but as far as I remember, it was so when we made the Agreement on Payout Denmark that you could go into the community service and get help if you couldn't manage it yourself. It may lag a little behind in some of the municipalities, and we may need to follow it up a little and see how it works. But that doesn't apply to this area, it does apply to the areas that have previously been relocated to Payout Denmark. We look forward to a good discussion of the matter and can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405143952	Thank you to the rapporteur. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405144002	The bill we are discussing today is part of the implementation of the agreement concluded between the government and KL on the regional and municipal economy for 2016. In addition, L 151 is a realisation of the government's plan...Better balance - state jobs closer to citizens and businesses. In the autumn, the government presented a plan for the relocation of state jobs. The State's institutions carry out tasks for the benefit of citizens and companies throughout Denmark, and therefore the tasks of the State must also be distributed throughout the country. The plan helps to ensure a better geographical balance in Denmark, which creates more proximity to citizens and businesses. With the legislative proposal we are discussing today, we will ensure that this ambition is realised. Already in 2012, Payout Denmark took over tasks from the municipalities, and the evaluation shows precisely that Payout Denmark has the capacity to take over additional tasks. We therefore believe that we can transfer these state tasks, as the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, to Denmark's disbursement. I shall not repeat the content of these. It is very well reported and discussed. In concrete terms, this means that these 68 years' work will be moved to Holstebro, Frederikshavn, Hillerød and Allerød. With this relocation, we believe that we are ensuring an effective and successful case management, and we believe that with this bill we are ensuring a better balance between Denmark and Denmark, which we believe is both beneficial to citizens and businesses, and which, at the same time, can combine a high degree of quality and efficiency in the task solution. Against this background, the Left wants to support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405144219	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405144233	Thank you. The Enhedslisten cannot support the bill. We are basically opposed to the construction called Payout Denmark. We have given the old-fashioned and quadrupled view that public authority tasks must be performed by public authorities. This should not be posted or outsourced either to an organisation such as Payout Denmark or to private individuals. So that's the basic attitude we have to it. This does not exclude the fact that in a specific case you could see whether there are any factual reasons for transferring some task to Payout Denmark. We just can't find them in this case. It is said that the Administration of the State must have modernised its IT system anyway. That is how I see it, and it is not so much detailed, but that is clearly the reason. I guess that's not a reason for moving tasks. This could be a reason for modernising the State Administration's IT system. Then you talk about wanting to relocate state jobs. Yes, there may be factual arguments for that, but then you could just move the jobs together with the other part of the State Administration that is being relocated. That is no argument for handing them over to Payout Denmark. That's how we think some people really don't use factual arguments for this whole operation. It is also no argument that Payout Denmark is doing well. Well, it's a good thing they're doing well, since they've been assigned so many tasks, but that's not an argument for transferring more tasks to them. This could be an argument for the public authority, the tasks being transferred, to do better than they are doing today. So that is how the three key arguments have been used, and we do not think they are holding water. And since we are fundamentally opposed to the construction called Payout Denmark, our conclusion is that we cannot support it. Then there is the last thing: of course, we want to be part of the project or whatever it is called by the language we use in it, because there have been other examples that the financial costs of what is called the relocation of government tasks did not correspond at all to the picture that was tried to create in the first place. So, of course, we would like to contribute to this, but that will probably not change our position on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405144505	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405144515	Thank you. In my five years in the Folketing, I've never read a bill as boring as this before. It is a bill that is about Payout Denmark taking over some tasks from the Statens Administration's Financial Services Centre, and it is basically about taking over some tasks that have to do with the administration of the reimbursement of various public services. Payout Denmark takes over tasks corresponding to 68 years' work, and these will be located in Holstebro, Frederikshavn, Hillerød and Allerød. We can support this bill. The relocation of state jobs is not an independent objective for us, nor is it an independent objective for us to have those jobs in Copenhagen. If they can be handled better in other parts of the country, we can fully support it. So the government has assessed that is the case. We then choose to believe that, and that is why we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405144637	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405144658	Now this is not a legislative proposal that makes us very excited about the alternative either. I can sum up as it is a few rapporteurs since it has been done that it is about the relocation of tasks and jobs that have so far been carried out by the government administration, to pay out Denmark's departments in Hillerød, Frederikshavn, Allerød and Holstebro, and that tasks corresponding to 68 years' work are to be entrusted. At least that's what it's said if new viewers have arrived. In the alternative, we welcome the idea of transferring state jobs from Copenhagen to the rest of Denmark. State jobs are concerned with tasks relating to the whole country, and therefore the whole country should also benefit from the jobs that help create growth throughout Denmark. Nevertheless, the alternative's support for this bill should not be seen as a blue-stamping of the entire government's strategy for relocation of jobs; that discussion is not yet complete. When we support the proposal, it is because Payout Denmark has a reputation for being extremely effective and thorough in their proceedings, and this is extremely important, as these are important tasks that are being transferred. From now on, Disbursement Denmark will not only handle payments of services for citizens, but also take care of state loans, and these tasks are not important for us today, that the right competences follow, or that new ones are recruited in the future centres to ensure an optimal implementation phase as possible. It is therefore, of course, gratifying that we have been able to see that it goes beyond all expectations when it comes to recruiting qualified workers for the public jobs that have already been opened up. So the alternative will be positive in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405144835	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405144848	Thank you. In the Radical Left we have shown this, as most of the previous rapporteurs have shown. That looks reasonable. It is difficult to get excited about moving around on some tasks between the State Administration's Financial Services Centre and Payout Denmark, but nevertheless it is of course important for the people it is going to affect: both those affected by the tasks and those who are actually going to be moved. In general, we think that is sensible enough. Payout Denmark does a good job, efficiently and properly. I am personally pleased to see that it is not the entire SU part that is being moved. I know that those considerations have been there. It works well where it is, and you should not mess with things that already work. However, given the scale of this, we are also very much in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405144956	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405145009	SF takes a specific position on the individual parts when the government proposes to move jobs from the metropolitan area. We are opposed to some of these proposals, as they may be too expensive. In other contexts it can harm the professional environments which are around the specific tasks. In the specific proposal we are discussing here today, we see mostly positive effects. The SF expects to be able to support the proposal but awaits further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405145044	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405145055	Thank you. We certainly expect to support the bill as well. If I may tease the Minister a little, it is about to be such a Jørn Neergaard Larsen classic to shift some tasks within some agencies. It seems as if it is going on over there in the Ministry, and I think that is a good thing, but it is not so highly controversial, and trying to organise some workflows a little more efficiently we can only back up on that. As far as the debate is concerned, I think it was fascinating to hear Enhedslisten's wish to close down Payout Denmark, and one might almost be tempted to support it if one did not have a thought that Enhedslisten would then replace it with something even more expensive than what we have today. We expect to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405145140	Thank you to the rapporteur. The term'Minister of Employment' is then replaced by 'Minister of Employment'. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405145153	I would like to thank you for the treatment that the proposal has received here in the House today, and I do not want to go into it in detail in the light of the dullness of the proposal. However, I would just like to mention that the decision to transfer tasks to Payout Denmark is in line with the government's ongoing focus on optimising administration in the public sector. And then, for the record, I should like to mention that in one of the many laws that need to be amended and this is the law on the refinancing of mortgage loans, etc. In the case of agricultural property • a change is proposed by mistake, which relates to the recovery of claims by means of wage maintenance. That error will be corrected by an amendment which I will make as soon as possible. During the treatment here, several sides have highlighted the need to ensure efficiency, to ensure quality, to ensure citizen accessibility. These are all themes that the government is keenly concerned with, and these are themes that are being followed in relation to Payout Denmark's administration. As has also been mentioned at first reading, these are indeed areas in which Payout Denmark has shown a very good ability to increase efficiency in the areas that have been entrusted to it. So, by referring to the draft law and its comments, I should like to recommend the draft law to Parliament's favourable treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405145334	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405145351	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405145419	Thank you. The SF has tabled a motion for a resolution to introduce a new withdrawal regime. And the reason for the proposal is the gratifying fact that the proposers also point out that we live longer and that our health has generally improved. However, the proposers point to an increase in the retirement age and problematize that the Danes do not have the same number of years of retirement. The proposal involves a radical change in our pension system, which is based on a uniform retirement age and whether one can work and not on how long one can expect to live. Basically, I believe that we have a very good and flexible pension system that takes into account those who need to retire from the labour market or to go down in time before retirement age. At the same time, it is also possible for those who have the will and desire to continue working after the retirement age. There are many advantages to a fixed and uniform retirement age that we have today, where retirement age depends solely on your birth date, but is independent of your labour market history. It gives everyone a transparent and uniform horizon to plan for retirement. That is why I believe that the proposal is problematic on several points. Firstly, the proposal presupposes that the present system is not flexible enough to meet the needs of the worn out. Secondly, the proposal assumes that it is possible in a fair and fair way to base a retirement scheme on the life expectancy of a pensioner. I believe that these assumptions and assumptions are wrong. Having said that, I must not begin by recognising that work in certain sectors is physically hard and may involve a risk of wear and tear. It is therefore important that effective prevention takes place in the workplace and that employers fulfil their responsibilities to ensure a healthy and safe working environment. However, I do not believe that the solution is to introduce a lower retirement age for certain groups of the population. Fortunately, we also know that the Danes, including seniors, have generally gained better health and greater ability to work. We also know that the number of accidents at work has been decreasing over a number of years and that the number of physically overloaded workers has been reduced by approx. 12% From 2012 to 2014. And all that is positive. On the question of pensions, there can be no disagreement that a well-functioning pension system should have built in a reasonable degree of flexibility, but I think that is also very much the case for the Danish pension system. If you cannot hold a working life up to retirement age, there is now a wide range of opportunities for full or partial withdrawal from the labour market. I can refer in particular here to the flex-job scheme, which was amended by the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. It has now been more targeted at people who have a limited ability to work. The basic aim of the reform is that as many people as possible should be able to contribute to the labour market with the resources that individuals now have or have left. This means that people with much reduced working capacity can now also get flex jobs in just a few hours a week with public support, and there are currently approx. 15,000 people employed in one of these small flex jobs. This is a very positive development in such a short time. And in the last three years, the number of people over 60 in flex jobs has increased by approx. 3,000, so that number is now approx. Nine thousand. That is also very positive. It is therefore not surprising that the approach to the early retirement scheme, which is another scheme here, has been less than originally expected. I should also like to point out that the proportion of cases where applications for early retirement are refused is very small. It only happens in 11%. of the cases. So there is no indication that the rules in this area are not working as intended. In addition, the number of older flex workers has increased, and this shows that we are now able to keep people in employment who might have left the labour market altogether before. In addition, I can point to the switch-over scheme, which is aimed precisely at employment in worn-out industries. Support for change of track shall contribute to the ability of employees to remain on the labour market and to have a new job function if they are at risk of being worn out due to physical stressful work. The starting point for SF's proposal is that people with expected shorter life expectancy due to wear and tear must be able to retire earlier. It is assumed that the expected shorter life expectancy can be predicted. Of course, it will be difficult to claim a pension on the basis of the life expectancy of the individual. The aim of the proposal that everyone should have a similar life expectancy to that of a pensioner, I do not think it is possible to put it into practice; for this, individual differences are now too great. The proposal mentions some criteria for the award of a retirement pension, for example. training, how many years have been spent on the labour market, the degree of wear and health problems. There are certainly differences in life expectancy. However, to what extent such differences can be attributed to wear, lifestyle and inheritance, it is more difficult to establish. Of course, we need to be aware of the problem and of what can be done with regard to changes in lifestyle and working conditions, but the solution is not just to give the opportunity to leave the labour market. For the proposal means that people with full or reduced working capacity will also be able to withdraw completely from the labour market if the forecast for their lifetime is lower than for the average of those with the same age and sex. And precisely because life expectancy is increasing, it is necessary that more people remain on the labour market for longer periods of time if we are to continue to have the opportunity to finance the current welfare society. Therefore, we should not leave people to passive public support if it is possible that they can stay on the labour market with the right support. And for those with a permanent and substantial reduction in their working capacity, early retirement is still possible. Let me conclude by repeating that we have a well-functioning and flexible pension system, which also includes aid opportunities for people who are unable to continue on the labour market to date. I therefore believe that there is no need for a new withdrawal scheme. Instead, as in the past, we should focus our efforts on maintaining and preventing and creating a good framework for working life. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150240	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150247	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I can also see some problematic things in the Socialist People's Party's proposal, but it is therefore something quite different from what the Minister can see. I do not know what kind of reality the Minister is dealing with. I would like to give an example of the fact that the current arrangements are not in any way sufficient to resolve the problem. Of course, it is a thoughtful example, but there are many such things: a bricklayer becomes unemployed at the age of 53. After two years, the person concerned loses the right to benefit. At the same time as you lose the right to benefits, your entitlement to early retirement disappears. The same person then has a reduction in his ability to work corresponding to approx. 50% Its chances in the labour market are minimal. He cannot take up a full-time job and thus cannot support himself unless he has the impression that it is okay to be able to do half-time work at that age. What answer does the Minister have? Which of the solutions has been identified by the Minister is applicable and available to such an unemployed person?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150402	It is clear that the reforms that have been carried out in recent years and the reforms that we are pursuing, in order to ensure that people who have a working capacity or a residual working capacity can benefit from the labour market's ability, require support for those people in the situation when they have to make a change of track. There are basically five different arrangements that can take account of the situation. Pool funds have been set aside. There are initiatives to help with switching. So there is a whole range of arrangements which the person concerned, if the aid was put in in time, could benefit from. It could be a flex job. It could be senior pre-retirement. It could be part-retirement. It may be a number of the other schemes or funds that can be allocated to enable you to have a daily life in a job of a different nature from what you have had up to now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150454	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150457	Thank you. Then I think the Minister should go in to look at the arrangements mentioned by the Minister. There are no sub-schemes available to such a person. Such a person cannot receive an early retirement pension with a working capacity of 50 per cent. It has to be much, much smaller. It must be almost totally absent and the municipality must have a clear expectation that it cannot be developed. Otherwise, you can't get an early retirement. This is clear from the law. Early retirement is closed. Flexible jobs? You don't get a flex job if you have a working capacity of 50 percent. Then the municipality tells you to go out and take a part-time job, just like all the others. So what is it, apart from cash benefits, that you cannot get if the spouse earns money and there is some fortune? From the moment a person loses his or her right to unemployment benefits, what kind of retirement allowance could be granted to him or her at the age of 68 or something like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150550	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150552	As I said in my first remark, I expect the cashier to intervene as soon as the person concerned becomes vacant. With the description given of the situation, it is evident that another type of job needs to be found so that the wear and tear does not continue. Here's the switching device. There are various means of helping the person in question to move to another life.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150620	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150625	We may well take the view that our pension system is an important part of what we can call the social contract, which carries our welfare society. In other words, a social contract between generations and also between the social classes, all of which can see themselves being treated in a fair way. But there I would like to hear the Minister more precisely about his experience that we live longer on average, and that is for most people a nice experience but that it covers extreme social differences; that there is 10 years of lifetime difference between the 25 per cent. the longest educated men and the 25 per cent. Shortest trained men. Perhaps you could be happy and say that things will probably get better over time, but I would like to hear the Minister's view that things are actually getting worse. Twenty years ago, there was only 5 years of difference, and now there are 10 years of difference. If we are to maintain such a social contract both between the social classes and between the generations, we must not cheat those who do not enjoy the fact that we live on average any longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150731	The dilemmas, as Mr. Karsten Hønge mentions, I completely agree that we should follow very closely. For there are differences in lifetime between women and men and between different types of people in both sexes. We must follow or monitor what is happening so that we can secure the right bets. But when we look at a labour market history on the Danish labour market with approx. In other words, 750,000 job changes a year will be very, very difficult with SF's proposals to build up a manageable system which will not only be an expression of increased expenditure and which will give greater justice. But I fully agree with the need to follow the picture that Mr. Karsten Hønge is drawing up, up now, so that we can do the best we can in relation to those groups in the labour market or in society that are developing with too short a life span.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150834	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150836	Yes, I fully understand that it can be difficult to see how we can get exactly and in every detail a system that is quite fair and at the same time manageable. But I guess that shouldn't stop us from trying to do that. For the alternative to doing something is just looking at a dramatic development in which, because the majority or average lives longer, we leave a lot of people behind. We have to do something about that. Or will the Minister just wait and see what happens? There is no point in merely expressing an understanding of it, because there are a lot of people who, as thanks for a long and hard working life, are left behind in a new proletariat.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150919	As I said, I do not want to change the pension system. I therefore believe that this is the flexibility and validity that is possible in Denmark today. But I will take action much earlier and therefore follow whether the support schemes to ensure proper health can be dealt with in time on the basis of lifestyle diseases or wear and tear in the labour market. That's one. The second is to ensure that in the labour market system and in the health system we have the arrangements needed for people to have a dignified life.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405150956	Then we thank the Minister for Employment and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first is sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151009	I would like to start by commending the SF for addressing this debate. It is important, and it is also very necessary. After all, we all know that we are getting older, we are getting healthier and we are also getting more and more educated. That is why it is quite natural that at least some people can stay longer in the labour market. But we also know that not everyone can work longer as we say they should. That is why we also have to keep thinking about making it both better and easier to maintain our attachment to the workplace. I would say that we do not do this by cutting back on the Factory Inspectorate and the working environment, as this government does. On the contrary, we do this by providing a good working environment throughout working life. That, at least, is point No. 1, in order to be able to stay a long time in the labour market. We are not doing this either by cutting training opportunities for unskilled and skilled workers, but by constantly focusing on education for everyone, because we also know that well-educated people just live longer. We must also make the labour market more inclusive, so that there is even more room for people with special needs, for flex jobs, for the elderly. This is a very important debate which we simply need to address politically in the coming years. A longer working life, if it is good and healthy, is certainly good for the individual as well as for society. That is why, of course, I am also very sorry that the government abolished the think tank created by the Socialist Government. We simply need a labour market where we benefit more from seniors and where we see these seniors as a resource. What efforts are being made to keep older people longer in the labour market? And are there companies that are doing a good job today, from which we can all learn something? Is there any relevant inspiration from other countries? And what about the fact that the average age in the labour force is increasing and the elderly in the labour market have better health and education than the present seniors? These are a great many questions which clearly show that we need some who think highly for us, who give good examples, with good proposals, and who put figures and words to this problem. That's exactly what we wanted with this think tank. These are exactly the ones we wanted to give the answers to these questions and draw a picture of what we need. At the same time, we must ensure that early retirement is still possible, and we must ensure that there is a possibility of a flexible job for those who cannot cope with all the years. That is why it was also important for us Socialists to make the reforms of early retirement and flexible jobs that we did when we were in government. I also say that it is important to follow up on them so that those who need early retirement will have it. I could then also hear from the Minister that the reforms are starting to work. More flex workers have arrived over 60 years of age. But that is not the same as saying that it cannot get even better, because it can. We need to keep an eye on these reforms and we need to continue to make them work even better. If we then choose not to support this proposal, it is also because it is difficult to see what it will cost, what effects it will have, and exactly what it will mean. We believe that greater calculation and greater work are required if a decision of this nature is to be taken. That was also one of the reasons why we wanted such a think tank. In other words, we do not support the proposal, but we certainly believe that it is an important debate. I would once again like to thank the Socialist People's Party for this. That is why social democracy will still see it as a crucial social problem. You can count on the fact that when we were in government, we did what we could for this. We will continue to do so, and we will also do so after an election, if we still have the opportunity to do so and if we are in government. So thank you for this. I think this is an extremely important debate. I also know that this is a debate that interests a great many people out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151440	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151446	First of all, I would like to express my gratitude for the kind reception given to the problem addressed by the proposal. Now we got through the election campaign last year, when I saw a number of leading Social Democrats addressing this challenge, and is it not true that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen today acknowledges that when we look out in reality, there are a number of people who are worn out but who do not have access to a pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151519	I certainly accept that, of course I do, and that is why I say the things I say. That is also why I take it as seriously as I do, and that is also why we are having a good discussion on it, including in our party. We took many initiatives when we were in government, along with the others in the red block we did. At the same time, we also made that track-change effort, we made senior packages, we made a lot of things. I believe that, of course, these people who are going to have early retirement must have it, but I also believe that the whole work is in that we need not only to think about what we can do for those people who cannot be on the labour market, because we have to think about how we can ensure that they can stay on the labour market for a very long time. That would be point No. 1. That's point number one. 1 to avoid people going on early retirement or getting sick, and that is why I would like us to also discuss how we should make sure that they stay on the labour market for a very long time, because we all want them to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151620	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151622	I could not at all say that in our motion for a resolution we have shown sufficiently clearly and in detail which model could then replace the possibilities that exist today or which model could be a supplement and thus provide some new opportunities. But sir can. Leif Lahn Jensen didn't see either. Because what are we going to do, what are the models that the Socialists are pointing to? That's what I'm gonna ask, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen about. It is of course no use for these worn-out citizens to be left with all the right words and phrases, but without real proposals as to what to do. I understand that ours does not fulfil everything, but what is the Socialist proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151704	We had to continue the line we followed when we were in government. Now I have not been involved in pointing out this government, I have to confess, and I have not voted for any of them. What we did back then was we did everything we could, including with this think tank, to make some good suggestions about what we could do. We did different things, and then we also took care to tackle some of these reforms, and it was precisely with the aim that there should be early retirement, there should be some flex jobs, and there should be an opportunity to enter the labour market there should be an opportunity to accommodate the labour market. We have fought a great deal for this, and we will continue to do so, and I think that is the essence of it. Of course, we cannot do that as long as some others are in charge, but that is what we can try when we get back to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151741	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151746	Thank you. There's something I don't really understand. The Social Democrats, when they had the power of government, have themselves helped to raise the retirement age. They themselves have helped to make it harder to obtain unemployment benefit, they have helped to make it harder to maintain the right to early retirement, even making it harder to get early retirement, to reduce the conditions of flexible work, to make it much harder to get a restraint flexible job at the workplace from which you come, to make it harder to maintain sickness benefits. So it is not time for the Socialists to take responsibility for themselves and say: yes, we are still standing away at all the reforms, but now we are going to do something and we have some ideas on what we can do for all those people who did not become a good arrangement? Instead of talking about having a think tank that can think for yourself, would it not be better if you started thinking and making some concrete proposals yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151848	Now I think we should also stick to the right facts, because when we were in government, we did not make it harder to get unemployment benefits. We didn't change it because we couldn't. It was in this way the Danish People's Party and the former Blue Government that made it harder for cash benefits, we did not do so when we were in government. We made sure that there were a lot of solutions, emergency jobs and all sorts of other things. That's what they said were patch solutions. But we kind of made it easier for these guys along with the Enhedslisten. So I really do not think we should take that on board, because it was not the Social Democrats who did it when we were in government. Then I would say that we were just doing these reforms because we were still able to preserve the flex jobs, we could still retain the early retirement pension so that these people could still be able to actually get a flex job and retain the early retirement pension. I also have to say that there have been more flex jobs. There are more people who have been given flex jobs in less than 12 hours. Now we are also hearing that 3 000 more over 60 years have been given flex jobs. Why is it that Mr. Finn Sørensen doesn't think that's good? I think that's good. I think it's a good thing every time someone gets closer to the labour market. Why isn't it? This is the kind of thing we did back then, we need a lot more of. It is not the same as saying that we have no problems with these reforms; of course we still have to keep an eye on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151956	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405151958	Thank you. As far as I remember, the Socialists voted in favour of the bourgeois allowance reform, as well as a recent settlement based on the same principles. It was also the Socialists who implemented the proposal on early retirement and the increase in retirement age. I think that's historical facts. That is not what we are discussing. All we have to do is to discuss that the rapporteur himself says that there are some problems for a number of people, because they agree with the Socialist People's Party in what the SF should be right in saying that we therefore have a large group of people who cannot benefit from different dependency schemes and who must live for a very low income, until they can once in the distant future, if they live so long, have a pension. What is the Socialist message to the people, what concrete proposals do the Socialists have?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405152043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405152049	I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen, whom I have great respect for, and who has always been well prepared, that it is Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen is not today. No, we didn't vote I was here myself. We voted against. It was the Left and the Danish People's Party that ran through it that we voted against. Yeah, yeah. We have recently reached an agreement here, but I do not want us to be blamed for the fact that we have introduced an allowance reform when we voted against it. That is simply not true. I think we should continue to insist that these people should be helped, that there should be early retirement opportunities, that there should be flexible job opportunities. We just need to continue to ensure that those reforms work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405152130	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405152140	Thank you, President. As far as the SF motion for a resolution is concerned, it is actually very relevant to look at the problems that exist. As I understand it, it is a question of creating a new form of retirement pension five years before retirement age. We already have a senior early retirement pension five years before the age of retirement. This is, unfortunately, a system which has been somewhat undermined by the pre-time flexible job reform carried out by the previous government together with the current government. There you may be able to look at how to make that scheme work so that those who are worn out can also get a senior early retirement pension. It has been said that it is probably because there is not so much need for it that there is not so much search for it. I think it is more important that there are a great many who are actually worn out, but who do not get the right information about what opportunities they have for obtaining a senior early retirement pension five years before the age of retirement. It is precisely a system where you do not depend on whether you are in an unemployment insurance fund, so if you are worn out in the labour market, you really have to have a right to it quite quickly within six months. I think it is commendable that the SF is making this proposal. After all, it was also in the process of raising the retirement age. There was this thing about varying the retirement age. It is, as I see it, very difficult to manage and implement, because where should we set the limits and how long should we retire? Sir. Karsten Hønge also mentions that today there is a big difference between how long you can retire or on a retirement pension. But should we by law set a limit on how long you must be on a retirement pension? I'm sure that's not it, sir. Karsten Hønge means. But it is just to put it at the forefront: you cannot say that people have to have a retirement pension for 10, 15 or 20 years. That much we can't control people's life expectancy. But at least I agree with Mr. Karsten Hønge and SF in that there is a problem that we need to address. I just mean, and we do that here in the Danish People's Party... that we need to look at how we get this senior early retirement pension to work, so that people who are really worn out get the right information and know what opportunities they have and that they are not rejected at a job centre where they say: Well, it can't be said that you get on a senior early retirement pension; you need to apply for regular early retirement or flex jobs. There are a number of problems there, and that may be why there are not so many applications around. So I would urge the Minister to look at how we make this scheme work. It may also be that if we are to help those who are really worn out, we should look at whether we could extend the scheme to some particular sectors instead of being 5 years old so perhaps to be 7 or 8 years before the retirement age of those who are worn out. Because I think we agree that there are some who are worn out at the age of 60, but there are also some who are worn out earlier if they have had a long time in the labour market. So maybe we should see if we could extend the senior early retirement scheme. I believe that this is the arrangement that we should perhaps have looked at to get to work and that we should also look at whether they might also be able to get a flexible job on lax terms • those who want it and still have a link with the labour market. But I think we should look at this in the context of the work of the committee. At first sight, we cannot support the proposal, but we can see that there are problems that we need to see how to solve in the best way, because whether we want to or not, there is a big difference between the length of time we can hold on to the labour market in different sectors. That is precisely why we introduced the senior early retirement pension. It was precisely to take account of the fact that some people were really worn out, and of course they must also have the right to receive the senior early retirement pension that has been introduced. It should not be strangled in administration, so people are not just aware that they can seek. I have spoken to some who have said that they were immediately told that it could not be discussed, and then they did not seek. That is the problem we are facing. And then they came into the usual mill with the ordinary early retirement scheme, which can be very hard to get through for some who are worn out. I would urge that we look at how to solve the problem of the arrangements that we already have, and I have to say, unfortunately, that we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405152627	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405152633	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for recognising that the problem identified by the SF is relevant and one that needs to be addressed. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted one question. It is true that we cannot control exactly how many years we get on a retirement pension, but there are a lot of things that are predictable. So the first thing that DF has to do as a party, if you have to do something about it, is also clearly to recognise that today there is a socially biased access to good senior years and that this bias is actually growing in these years. So, do you in the Danish People's Party have that recognition?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405152716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405152718	We can see that there is a skewed access to it. One cannot compare an earth and concrete worker with an academic who does not get very worn down physically. You can't compare that. But there are some groups that have a very hard job and that are being worn out. This is true, for example. for SOSUs that they can be very worn out early. Of course, we have to take that into account, and we have to look at how we can help these groups. Many aids have been put in place to improve conditions, but the effect of many of the aids that have come to me, I think, will take some time to get through. For many people have been on the labour market for a long time, who have not benefited from the new tools for a very long time, while new ones coming in have aids to improve working conditions from the outset. So in this way I think it will take a while before we get to where we can say: now they have all had the good tools. But we have a group that may take 10 to 20 years to get through before we get there, where everyone has had the new tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405152825	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405152827	I would really like to be able to give Mr. Bent Bøgsted is right in the hopes that it should go in that direction. But if we look back 20 years instead of looking 20 years ahead, we can see that it has happened that the groups have drifted apart. In other words, where today there is a ten-year difference in life expectancy between the short-educated and the longest-educated, 20 years ago there was only 5 years difference. So there is no indication that we are going in that direction. Then Mr. Bent Bøgsted did not try to indicate in what direction the Danish People's Party could imagine going to take care of these worn-out citizens other than having such things, I think, somewhat exaggerated hopes of what the future such technologically can bring?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405152908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405152910	I find it difficult to explain why some groups have a much longer lifespan than others. It doesn't have to be because of the work you've had, that you have a long lifespan. I have also met slaughterhouse workers who have been 90 years old, even though they have worked their whole lives. Well, it's hard to judge. But there are some groups that are harder hit than others; we can quickly agree on that. But exactly what it is that causes it is difficult to judge. I believe in general terms that, in the longer term, it is also part of our healthcare system that has become better at treating diseases. That's part of it, too. But there are many factors involved in determining how long life is going to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405152956	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153000	Thank you. The fact that health care has improved does not explain that inequality is increasing. Because it does, as Mr. Karsten Hønge has just explained. I can come back to that in my rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur says that we need to get that senior early retirement pension to work. I would like to hear a little more about how it is to be done. Does the rapporteur agree that if it is to work, that is to say if it is to actually intercept part of the target group that we are talking about here in the SF proposal, then the criteria need to be changed? After all, there are the same criteria for obtaining a senior early retirement pension as there is for receiving an early retirement pension. This means that your ability to work must be virtually zero, and the municipality must have no expectations whatsoever that the ability to work can be improved. This is, of course, the requirement for early retirement, and it is the same requirements that apply in order to receive a senior early retirement pension. So I guess the rapporteur agrees that one thing is that we have to screw up when it can be awarded, but another thing is that we have to screw up the criteria. I hope the rapporteur agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153105	I really think the best solution for senior early retirement pension was that it was completely disconnected from the reform of the ordinary early retirement and flexible job scheme. Because it was, as I see it, the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs that helped to destroy the senior early retirement pension. I think it needs an independent life. It should not be compared at all with the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. We need a senior early retirement pension, which has its own life, has its own rules on what it takes to get a senior early retirement pension, perhaps with a flexible job of some kind connected to. But they should not be put into the same pot as those who otherwise apply for early retirement and flexible jobs. I think that's the way we should go. But, of course, I can't be 100% sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153152	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153154	Thank you. I agree with that in principle. That's how it was invented. For it was invented in connection with the deterioration of the early retirement scheme and raising the retirement age under the former VKO majority, of which the Danish People's Party, as I remember, was a part. So the Danish People's Party was in on it. Later, the early retirement pension was reduced, and then it hit the senior early retirement pension because it was the same criteria that were applied. So far as we are concerned, we agree. But we will have the opportunity to discuss this, because the Enhedslisten is on the way with a resolution on it, and we can then delve further into that affair.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153232	The problem is that when we made the senior early retirement pension, we could not know that the previous government would bring about a change in early retirement and flexible jobs that affected the senior early retirement pension. We didn't know that back then. But the Danish People's Party is not part of the agreement on early retirement and flexible jobs, as well as Enhedslisten is not part of that agreement either. So I think we can quickly agree that it has helped to undermine the senior pre-retirement pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153300	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153307	Thank you. Motion for a resolution B 80, tabled by the Socialist People's Party, proposes the creation of a new system which allows retirement to take place in the past, even if the conditions for early retirement are not met. We know that the composition of the population is changing. This means that there are more elderly people to be provided for. At the same time, the number of people of working age falls. This is a challenge that we must address. We already have a well-functioning and flexible pension system, which also includes people who are unable to continue on the labour market to date. We think this is very good and sensible. Then we come to the question of whether the retirement age should depend on the labour market history of the citizen rather than on what we know today. We do not think so in the Left. We do not believe that it is possible to grant pensions in a fair and fair way on the basis of the indicators which, after all, only have a statistical link with the life expectancy, as indicated and outlined in the motion for a resolution. It can then be said that Denmark, paradoxically, despite a good location when it comes to the number of healthy years of life, is below the average in Europe when it comes to expected years of life. We can therefore expect to live for less time than we can in a number of other countries, but in return we can rejoice that we are more healthy while we are living. And then it is important to stress here that it is the employer who is responsible for ensuring and maintaining a healthy and safe working environment. The workplace must ensure, by means of preventive measures, that you do not become ill by going to work. Then I welcome the fact that developments are actually moving in the right direction when talking about physical wear and tear. As the Minister for Employment mentioned, we have seen a fall of 12%. the number of physically overloaded employees from 2012 to 2014. In other words, we are approaching the 2020 work environment strategy, where the goal is to reduce the number of physically overloaded people. Finally, I would like to say that a new provision in a withdrawal scheme will have enormous economic consequences in the long term and will challenge the sustainability of our common public finances. The motion for a resolution does not say anything about that, but that is the consequence, and we do not want to contribute to it. So, overall, the Left cannot support this motion for a resolution by the Socialist People's Party to create a special retirement pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153633	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153639	I would like to start by asking whether the Left even recognises that today there are a lot of worn-out people who do not have access to pensions? Can the rapporteur try to explain to me what joy the worn-out citizen, the citizen who dies before this average, has from the fact that others live longer? As I understand it, it is about the rapporteur being fundamentally wrong when he says that developments are moving in the right direction. That depends on which direction we want. Twenty years ago there were five years of life between the shortest educated and the longest educated, and today there are ten years. Does the Left think this is the right direction? Does the Left recognise that there are a lot of citizens who do not actually have access to a pension and who are worn out and who, thanks for a long hard working life, are left initially on unemployment benefits, perhaps then on sickness benefits, end up on cash benefits if they are so lucky, or with the spouse having to support them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153744	I think that Mr. Karsten Hønge looks very black on the situation. We have a wide range of schemes that you can use or that you can benefit from. I would say this in this way if you do not have the full working capacity. You have been mentioned by the Minister for Employment a few moments ago, but we do have a large number of arrangements that we can come up with. I don't think there are people left anywhere. So basically, I think that having a small link with the labour market is much better than not having any link with the labour market when you have not reached the age of retirement yet. I would like to support that, and I do not want to undermine it, and I think that is actually happening with this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153837	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153839	I also heard the rapporteur refer to the senior early retirement scheme. Does the rapporteur think that it only works approximately as intended, when virtually little over a handful of people have been granted it? That's one. The second is that, although our resolution does not specify in detail how to completely build a new pension scheme and does not describe in all detail what it is going to cost, it should really lead to leaving people without any possibility of someone taking care of them, because there is a lack of some technical details on how to build the scheme itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405153921	Left leaves no people. The Left is concerned that we have a labour market that is spacious and that does not get sick from going to work. Then there are a large number of schemes that are established and that can be covered if you do not have the full working capacity. I would say that it is so characteristic of a welfare society. If we are to have the opportunity to keep it forward, then we must ensure that as many as possible contribute with what they can, even if it is very few hours. And I think that when nine out of ten are awarded senior early retirement when they apply for it, we have taken a very long step.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405154004	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405154007	Thank you. I am not surprised that the Left does not want to spend money on some social measures for people who get into trouble. Over the last 5 to 6 years, together with the previous government, a series of reforms have been made on unemployment benefits, early retirement pensions, blah and so on. A total of approx. 13 billion kr. a year when they are fully phased in. After all, that money has already been spent on tax cuts, which are particularly beneficial to the highest-paid and the rich in this society. Then it is clear that you do not want to spend money on some social measures, because then perhaps some of the tax cuts should be rolled back. So I don't dream of having any constructive conversation with Mr. Hans Andersen about it. But Mr. Hans Andersen did not respond well to the fact that the Institute for Public Health informed us about a year ago, namely that the richest quarter of Danish men have an average age of 82 years. But the poorest quarter of Danish men have an average age of 72 years. What will the rapporteur do about the screaming inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405154120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405154122	One of the things we specifically do in the government is to ensure free and equal access to our health care so that it is not the one who has the biggest purse that can get to first, and so you should not be parked on a waiting list if you need treatment. This is, of course, one of the very concrete measures that the government, together with other parties, is now ensuring is being implemented. This helps to ensure that the people who are ill can be treated quickly. I hope that some of the men whom the rapporteur outlined will be able to live a little longer in the future, perhaps also with some very good years of life.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405154206	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405154208	Thank you. It is a very good idea to spend money on health care, especially if they do not move to private hospitals. But that is just not an answer to the poorest quarter of the Danish men I mentioned here, because it is in the group we find in particular, for example. Unskilled workers. What response does the rapporteur then have to an unskilled worker from the example I used before, who loses his job in the mid-fifties, two years after that, he loses his right to benefits and thus the right to early retirement. The person has about half of his ability to work and therefore cannot benefit from some of the provisions that are otherwise listed all the time. What response does the rapporteur have to that group of the working Danish population?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405154254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405154255	I am quite sure that the job centres today actually ensure that a large number of these people, who cannot be covered by the senior early retirement scheme, but still have a residual working capacity, have to move on in a different direction. They must move to another industry where their ability to work can be used. I'm pretty sure that's the best solution. Because nobody gets richer or happier by losing employment links. The best thing is that you are part of the working community. We are concerned about that in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405154341	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405154350	Thank you. I shall begin by apologizing to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. I don't know if there's any reason. I'll know when I see the video clip. If I said that the Socialists voted in favour of VKO's unemployment benefit reform, that was a clear mistake. And if I said so, I am very sorry. I hope I have said what I meant, namely that the Socialists put it into practice. There's no way around it. Then I could say a lot more about that. I don't want to spend time on that here. Thank you very much to the SF and Mr. Karsten Hønge to raise this debate. It has already been shown how important it is. The reforms that have been carried out over the last 5 to 6 years have affected thousands of people who cannot get stuck in the labour market because of wear and tear and who do not have access to any of the dependency schemes that have been mentioned. We have found that the senior early retirement scheme is not an answer to that, first of all because it is based on exactly the same criteria for obtaining early retirement pension as the early retirement scheme, and it has become virtually impossible to obtain it. That is why it is a good thing that proposals should be put forward in an attempt to rectify this. The Enhedslisten agrees with the proposers' intention, even when it comes to the injustice that unskilled and skilled, or the unskilled, part of the population gets on average much less years of retirement. That is an unacceptable inequality in our society. I also agree with the description of the brutalisation of the labour market that has taken place, so something has to be done, and it is good that we have the debate. Unfortunately, however, we cannot support this proposal, and I am very sorry when I hear the arguments put forward. However, this is based on quite different considerations and opinions. We do not think it solves the problem that is said to be resolved, and then it contains a number of ambiguities which I do not think are wise to have in a resolution if you want to impose on the government to continue working on it. There are no concrete constraints on the bill that the government has to put forward, apart from the fact that you have to be able to apply for this retirement pension five years before retirement age. That is where I would say that it does not help the many who are worn out in the mid-fifties, so the proposal does not solve the problem that it points out to solve, and the FOA and 3F have pointed out many times that many of their members cannot bite on the labour market and cannot benefit from any of the other dependency schemes. So they just look forward to a lot of years on cash benefits or without support. Then there is also the problem, if you say five years before retirement age, that that limit will, of course, rise as the retirement age rises. And there is a clear majority for that here in the Folketing. This means that the gap between when you need to get such a good arrangement and when you can get it is getting bigger and bigger as it is screwed up. As the proposal is described, I do not actually see where it differs from the old-age pension scheme which has already been adopted and which clearly does not work. So if we are to impose something on the government, then it must be much clearer what it is all about, so that we know whether there is real agreement on the principles of a legislative proposal that will later be put forward. Then we do not agree with the criteria laid down by the SF in their comments either. What does education really have to do with a retirement pension? It must be the ability to work that is crucial and not how much education you have. After all, there are plenty of people with long-term education who are worn out in the mid-fifties. This does not necessarily have to do with how many years you have been in the labour market, but with what work environment you have been exposed to. 30,000 people go down with stress every year and are on sick leave for it. Many of them will come back safely, hopefully then, but there are also many who do not. After all, there are a lot of people with a little more education between them. Then we think it is unclear who should decide whether or not to have this pension and how to take a position. On the one hand, it is said to be an individual estimate, and it has to be when it is an ability to work that needs to be assessed. On the other hand, it is said that it may be the social partners. I would be very concerned to have the Danish Employers' Association at the table when deciding whether people are entitled to a retirement pension. After all, the Danish Employers' Association has an overriding requirement that early retirement should be further reduced. This does not indicate the great will to take account of that group of people. I think we have to separate things. We need an improvement in the early retirement scheme, which goes in and screws up when to get it and what the criteria are, and then we need a replacement or an improvement in the early retirement scheme, which is based on objective criteria that, seen with Enhedslisten's glasses, must be about how many years you have been in the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405154903	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405154912	First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that Enhedslisten addresses the same challenge that SF sees. We have common thought, and far along the way I suppose we are thinking in the same direction. I would like to ask Mr. Finn Sørensen about something. You mention this by looking at how many years people have been on the labour market. It's also a model we've seen FOA argue for. Does it not present the system with an equally great challenge, namely that one may have had so different working lives that it cannot reasonably be said that it is only the number of years, but more the content of the years of work that are crucial? One can, of course, have a worn-out high school teacher, even though he was a little late on the job market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405155001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405155003	Yes, and I think that whatever criteria we address, there will be some challenges. What is probably important to understand in Enhedslisten's optics is that we need two arrangements. We need a system that is targeted at those who are worn out, for example. mid-fifties. Here it is the ability to work that must be decisive and the fundamental principle. It's gonna be an individual estimate. Then we need the thinking of the early retirement scheme, which is based on objective criteria: how long have you been in the labour market, how long have you been in an unemployment fund? These are two good, sound principles on which we have been agreed for many years, and the system still exists, but very, very few people are now able to take advantage of it, because at the same time the system itself has deteriorated and reduced the ability to maintain its daily allowance. So these are the two levels we'd like to play. Yes, there will also be a problem with how many years you have been in the labour market, but it has been a principle that has worked so well that some found out that it was too good, so they had to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405155113	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405155115	It comes as no surprise when I say that the SF would like us to have the old early retirement scheme. However, the fact is that unfortunately there is a very large majority in this Parliament who do not intend to give hard-working workers the opportunity to get out of working life in a decent way. So it is an attempt by the SF to start from the reality that is now once upon a time. There is no prospect that we can have a system that is either a continuation of the old early retirement scheme or something that goes against it. That is why this is an attempt to make an individual assessment, and that is why I should like to ask Mr Van der Klaauw. Finn Sørensen, why Mr. Finn Sørensen looks so angry at the idea of creating a kind of board containing the social partners. Among other things, it contains: employers too, but it is, after all, the social partners that we envisage making an assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405155203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405155205	I would like to say that the same majority, with reforms, which has reduced all of these schemes we are talking about and which have brought about deteriorations in the benefit scheme, the early retirement scheme, the two things are linked and have adopted a higher retirement age, as we have already noted today, has no desire whatsoever to accommodate the group of workers who have been put in a mess as a result of all that. That is why it may not help to put forward a proposal that is as unclear as this one. With regard to the social partners, I would like to say that, frankly, I do not want the Danish Employers' Association to sit and decide whether a worn-out worker should have an early retirement pension, because they have reported clearly that the early retirement scheme we have, plus 27 other social security net benefits, needs to be simplified. That is a nice word for further cuts to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405155257	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405155307	Thank you so much. This motion for a resolution tabled by the SF is an extremely bad proposal. It is poison for Danish economy, for Danish prosperity. On the contrary, we need to move in the opposite direction. It is perhaps important to say first that it is for this reason that we are a low-growth country. We have had very low economic growth over the last 20 years. It is the sixth lowest economic growth in the OECD, and we also have the prospect of the sixth lowest economic growth in the OECD up to 2030. This is enormously problematic for our welfare, for our prosperity and, therefore, for all of our life opportunities. For this reason, reforms are needed to increase growth in Denmark, including so that people stay longer in the labour market, that overall more work is done in Denmark. We have proposed that the retirement age should be raised to 68 years and that the early retirement scheme should be completely abolished over a three-year period. This will increase employment by 71,000 by 2025 and make Denmark 18.5 billion. kr. richer. That's the way to go. At least we think that life expectancy should be phased in more quickly than is the case, so that the retirement age will be 68 years from 2025 instead of as planned by 2030. The reason why this is also a bad idea is that it's a myth that inequality in life expectancy is increasing. It's falling. For the population as a whole, we have increasing equality in life expectancy. What some do is that they make a very, very special measurement of life expectancy. They talk about the life expectancy of them over 30 years, and then they measure it on education. But we are in the happy situation that when you look at the mortality rate for those under 30 years in Denmark, you see that it has been sharply decreasing. This means that infant mortality and mortality rates for young people are decreasing in Denmark. This means that today, compared with 20 years ago, there are simply more people who are going to be 30 years old than they were in the past. This is a positive development. If that development had not taken place, we would have seen that we had not had an increase in the difference in life expectancy. So this is an expression of a very, very positive problem: people who would not have reached 30 years of age in the past will be today. So when you look at the inequality in life expectancy, you see that it's luckily falling. And there is no indication that this development should not continue. In fact, it is those who previously lived shorter who have the largest increase in life expectancy. All other things being equal, that development should continue as we get better treatment in hospitals, that we get a new technology into the workplace, that makes work less worn and so on. After all, these are some things that will only take effect in the long term, and therefore it would be very, very unfortunate if new arrangements were to be made that would pull people out of the labour market on a false basis. That is not what is needed. We have plenty of scope for withdrawal today, compared with the fact that we see an increase in life expectancy, an improvement in our health. There's no need for this. There is a need for something completely different in Denmark. We need to make reforms that allow people to stay longer in the labour market. Otherwise we will see a relative fall in prosperity and living standards. What is needed in Denmark is for us to carry out reforms that will allow people to stay longer in the labour market. That is why we cannot in any way support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405155754	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, we have a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405155758	I am extremely pleased that the Liberal Alliance cannot support this proposal. I would be concerned if we were to come forward with something that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen would appreciate it. But I have to ask whether the Liberal Alliance recognises that there is a stronger wearout in some industries and in some jobs than there are others. And if you acknowledge that, does the Liberal Alliance also recognise that as a society you have an obligation to help the worn out? As it is today, we have people who are more or less going directly from job to grave. And that doesn't help the worn out or the citizen who dies long before so many others that we live longer on average. You can see it: a tombstone that says: "On average, we live longer. Yours sincerely, a citizen who was only 63 years old. It doesn't help those who are worn out. Then I'm gonna do this with that, sir. Joachim B. Olsen believes that things are better because we have similar hopes for technology and health promotion, etc., ask: how will Mr. Joachim B. Olsen then explain that inequality is actually increasing? In the last 20 years, the difference in life expectancy between the longest educated and the shortest educated has actually doubled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405155916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405155918	Yes, I recognize that there are some jobs that are more grueling than other jobs. However, when the rapporteur speaks of increasing inequality in life expectancy, it is important that we look at what kind of analysis is underlying it. And that analysis does not take into account the fact that there are more people who are going to be 30 years old than before. If there were no more people who were 30 years old than before, you would not have seen that increase, so it is on the basis of something that is extremely positive. It's important to go. Those who remain in the labour market, those who have good health, live longer. All groups live longer, have better health. Those who experience the greatest increase in life expectancy are those who previously died earlier. You simply see the positive thing that those who previously had a shorter life span are those who are experiencing the greatest increase in life expectancy right now. That's why there's no need for this. There is no reason to believe that this development should not continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405160029	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405160031	I also think it is fantastic that we all live better and have more healthy years and that we also live longer on average. For most people, that is an excellent thing. But what does it do? It is the point of the many citizens who, despite the average, continue to die a long time before what is done on average, and in particular get significantly fewer years as seniors and, in particular, get fewer healthy years. I mean, such an average is of course not for the use of anything other than statistics and so for those who are on the green branch. But those who are in grueling industries, or those who have otherwise been worn down either physically or mentally, cannot use such a reference to the fact that we live on average longer and that it will probably go better in the future. So today all the many citizens are left without help.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405160125	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405160127	What is the problem with the analysis that you use here is that you make the conclusion that it is because people have certain jobs that they are worn out, that is, that low-skilled people are worn out quickly. But it's both ways. It may also be, because people are born with or have poorer health, that they receive poorer education. This has to be taken into account when setting up a system that applies to the whole population. This proposal would be expensive. It will not be in proportion to the challenges they face. The fact that people live longer is good. There are probably things we can do better in our health care • make sure to catch people faster. That's what we need to get better at. It is not making new arrangements that make us poorer as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405160220	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405160225	I think it's a bit of the usual talhokuspocus coming from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. He is trying to confuse the concepts by saying that it is actually good that there is a growing inequality, because it is because there are more people who are going to be 30 years old. Why don't we get the premises that both Mr. Karsten Hønge and I have spoken from, in place, the study carried out by the Labour Movement's Business Council and the State Institute for Public Health? That is where I have the figure that the richest quarter of Danish men live on average until they are 82 years old and that the poorest quarter is only 72 years old. And that difference has grown; that is what this study shows. It does, of course, because the expected life expectancy of 30-year-old unskilled men between 1987 and 2009 has increased by 2.9 years, while men with higher education have experienced an increase in life expectancy of 4.2 years. The increased difference is also found among women. It's just to mention a single number. Will Mr. Joachim B. Olsen recognizes that investigation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405160334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405160338	That is absolutely correct. But when it is said that there is an increasing inequality in health and that it is measured against the background of increasing inequality in life expectancy, it is wrong if you look at the population below one, because there is a difference. The population under one gets a more equal life span. What you do is measure the residual life of the +30-year-olds. That is where I say that this is because there are some people and it is a very, very positive development that today will be 30 years old but which in 1986 would not have been 30 years old. They wouldn't even count in this statistic because unfortunately they wouldn't have gotten that old. It is therefore problematic to use that study to establish a system for all people, for it will pull good labour out of the workforce and make us poorer. What we need to do is to ensure that we have a health service that is even better able to detect those who have problems and to ensure that they receive good treatment. And there you just have to say that when you look at the life expectancy and how it will be in the future for those who live in the past and also now in the shorter period, they will have an even greater increase in life expectancy than they now have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405160458	Then again the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405160503	Thank you. After all, a worn-out pension of some kind will not draw good labour out of the labour market, because it is aimed at people who cannot work. It's as simple as that. Why is life expectancy interesting? It is interesting when you are warmly in favour of everyone working longer, because that is the reason, and then the rest of the life is interesting. And the figures and the study to which I refer show that the poorest quarter of Danish men, if they are lucky, get a year or two where they are on a national pension, while the richest quarter gets 10 more years. That's kind of the thing in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405160548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405160551	Experience from the early retirement scheme and from other schemes shows that they are being used far, far more than was intended. It shows all the experience. There will be far more into those schemes than was expected. That is why I believe that believing that this would not happen with this scheme is bound up with the naive. That is why it will be a harmful arrangement. Then I just have to hold on to the fact that it is dangerous to use the analysis referred to, about residual life expectancy to make such a scheme here, because in that analysis the very positive thing is that the reason why there is a difference in life expectancy is that those who previously lived shorter live longer and thus turn 30 years, fortunately. This is a positive development and will continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405160653	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405160659	Thank you. In the alternative, we want to ensure that people who have been worn out in the labour market have the opportunity to retire before the rest of us. But, of course, we believe that the problem of wear and tear, stress and other work-related challenges should be solved in a wider context. It could, for example, be done. is done by working for a 30-hour working week in the long term, so that we can better share the work and thus avoid people going into stress or working their way down completely. We would also like to work with time bank models where you can choose to distribute your work in different amounts through life, so that you can, for example, distribute your work. can work less when you have children, and more when they have grown up. However, the trees are not growing into the sky, and it will probably require a new government before we can really get the initiatives that mean that we can organise the labour market a little better to suit us people, rather than having to adapt ourselves so much to the conditions of the labour market in favour of economic growth that is lacking both an environmental and a social bottom line. In the alternative, we take the view that all citizens should have the same number of good years to retire to look forward to. The groups which have come at the earliest and have remained the longest in the labour market, typically the unskilled, and with shorter training they wear out faster than for example. academics. Studies have shown that over 20%. by soil and concrete workers experience getting sick from their work against only 3%. by the lawyers. In this context, we regard SF's proposals as a type of patchwork solution in an attempt to do something sensible for the Danes who are most worn out after a long working life and a social effort that has been of value to all of us. In that category, moreover, the alternative put forward a proposal some time ago which, in our opinion, responds better to the specific problem. It is about the so-called German Rentenpaket, which was adopted in Germany in 2014. This means that Germans, who have been 45 years on the labour market today, can retire as 63-year-olds two years earlier than usual. Here, the reduction must be seen as a kind of recognition for many years of hard work and dragging on an increasingly brutal labour market. So this is something the Germans have earned and not something they just get. The SF actually voted against it for inscrutable reasons, and now you come up with a proposal that looks very much like it and addresses the same challenge. Nevertheless, from the alternative we welcome the proposal here as a starting point, and we are very, very pleased with the debate it raises. We do not think it is nearly as good as the well-tested proposal from Germany as we tabled ourselves, but we clearly believe that it is better than nothing. There are, however, some things that, if there were to have been a majority in favour of this proposal, we would have had to discuss very carefully with the other parties in committee, for example. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. Finn Sørensen points out. But as a starting point, in the alternative, we are positive about further discussing this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161008	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161011	First of all, thank you for choosing the alternative to look at the fact that the resolution is aimed at a challenge that we agree on needs to be addressed. Then I'm just gonna ask you a question about sir. Torsten Gejl's support for the German scheme, which is a positive one, can be called such a right-based approach to it, so that you can figure out how long you have to be on the labour market before you can retire. But Mr. Torsten Gejl not the weakness of not addressing what Mr. In his rapporteur's speech, Torsten Gejl himself mentioned the difference between having a hard physical job as a soil and concrete worker and then being a lawyer? That is precisely the picture that Mr. Torsten Gejl mentioned himself. There you can only say in part that the German model takes this into account, because typically the ground and concrete worker will have been on the labour market for several years before the lawyer, but as such it does not take the basis of the fact that we also have different industries with different wear and tear. So does the rapporteur not recognise that this is the weakness of the German model? So I would like to say that I understand that the rapporteur is saying that this resolution is a patchy solution, but what else is the proposal from the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161130	After all, we are trying to take into account the fact that it is the professional groups who have the hardest work to get a pension, too, by the fact that they are often the ones who start work at the earliest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161147	Of course it will be, but there are a number of other situations where it is not so, if you have changed the industry through your life or there may be all sorts of other things that disturb the picture that I think is kind of square from the German side and now in the debate from the Alternative side. I would say again that the good thing about it is that it is rights-based, but I think that the alternative will have to address at least the challenge of not taking into account the fact that, for all kinds of other reasons, we can be worn out in the past. It may even be because you are in a particular industry or because you, as a lawyer, have also been exposed to a number of, you might say, very violent cases by working in the field of children, for example. So you might actually risk being an absolute mentally worn-out lawyer at the age of 60, but you wouldn't be entitled to a pension according to the German model that the alternative likes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161236	Yes, but if the rapporteur listens, he will hear that we actually think that the SF's proposal is so strong that we are actually ready to support it. This is for us the second best. We think the second model is better, but if it were the case that there had been a majority to get this going instead of nothing happening, we might have been able to model it in place as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161252	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161301	Thank you. There has been a longer debate and I regret that I have not been able to participate all the way. That is the way it is when you have two rapporteurs and there are also debates somewhere else. However, I believe, as many rapporteurs, perhaps even everyone here, that if you can contribute to the labour market, you must also, but if you cannot, you should not. That is, of course, what we have worked towards by a broad majority through several reforms to find solutions. If you can do a little, you have to do a little, and you have to have the opportunity to contribute a little. That is why we have done the early retirement reform, the flex-job reform and the other things that both the Minister and other rapporteurs have been through. As far as the Radical Left is concerned, it is important to keep our eyes open for the proper functioning of the things that have been carried out. We have been through some changes to the early retirement reform quite recently. We think that is very sensible. We must constantly focus on whether the things we are implementing also work for the purpose we want, namely that there are no pointless activations or deployments of people who have absolutely no chance of doing so. But our focus is therefore on making what we do work and being very open to looking at how it works all the time, being out there where it affects citizens, instead of creating new arrangements that may then have to apply to special professional groups, rather than focusing on what individual people have the opportunity to do. That is why we are opposed to this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161504	There is one brief comment. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161507	I noticed that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen said that the Radical Left is concerned about making the arrangements we have work. Does the rapporteur think that the senior early retirement scheme we have now works when only a handful of people have been awarded it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161525	I believe that the rapporteur and I take a different view of some fundamental issues, and that is also why we are in two different political parties. I actually see this as an attempt to reinstate the early retirement pension by the back door, which I assume the rapporteur is still in favour of. I do not, and we do not in the Radical Left. One may be sorry that there are plenty of people who are still on the labour market rather than on early retirement, but there are. So, in the same way, I do not think it is a problem in itself that there are not so many on senior early retirement. What I feel is that there are not so many refusals. I find that interesting. It may well be that the arrangements we have are not sufficiently widespread and do not work where they should. I think we can find examples of this, and then we should pay close attention to making it work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161622	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161624	Yes, but the fact that the senior early retirement scheme does not have many under its wings is not an indication that wear and tear does not occur. And does the Radical Left not recognise that today we have extremely unequal social access to good senior years? Whatever figures the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance will be able to make, it does not alter the fact that there is an extremely large difference between the number of years we live, depending on whether we are in short or in advanced education, and that distance is increasing. And in this way, such basic social contracts are being broken in our welfare societies between generations and between different social classes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161709	I think I started by saying that for the Radical Left, it is absolutely crucial that if you can, you contribute, and you cannot, there must be solutions for you. And I think we do. We have been immensely concerned about developing this not just in a way where everyone can just go earlier, but only those who need it. Then you are worn out, there are arrangements, and if they do not work as intended, we must continue to work for them to do so. I do not think that we can regulate either our pensions or our schemes in a way that we say that everyone who works in this sector is allowed to go three years earlier and then you have to be punished because you have taken more education or vice versa. And I don't think this arrangement is an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161800	Thanks to Sofie Carsten Nielsen. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405161819	It may not come as a great surprise that the Conservative People's Party does not intend to support this resolution. In our view, the resolution here is the opposite of what Denmark needs. We need more people to work; we need fewer schemes that send people on passive support no more. Over the past many years, we have been working hard to reduce the number of Danes who are not in work, and now the SF wants to be supported by several parties in this Chamber, I can hear from the discussion here, to introduce a new system that sends more people away from the labour market. That is the principle of it. Then, I think, there is something else important in this motion for a resolution, and that is that there is not a single crown of funding assigned. This will probably cost a greater billions, perhaps even every year, and the SF has not indicated any kind of funding for it. I think it is rather irresponsible that such a motion for a resolution should be tabled without thinking about where the money should come from. It is very easy to be a politician in that one stands and distributes gifts to selected electoral groups with which one would like to be popular, but it is a little harder if the economy is to be connected in society. So I think this is a free round here, and the SF knows that too, because the SF knows very well that there is a majority of responsible parties here in the Folketing who are going to vote this proposal down. And then you've got a mark, where you can go out and tell some of those you want to vote for you, that now you've tried to do something for them, but that the evil right didn't allow this proposal to come through. But we do not do so because we have a responsibility to ensure that the budget is linked here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162018	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162023	I had some doubts as to whether I should withdraw it again, because if, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, on behalf of the Conservatives alone, can swing up to a poor look at the process in it, and he is unable to relate to the substance, so perhaps it is not really worth a question. But yet, for now I have pressed the button: Does the Conservative People's Party recognise that there is an extremely biased access to some good senior years and that because of the education or the industry they have chosen or other factors it can in any case have very different prospects of being able to get some good years as seniors?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162110	Yes, I recognize that. There's a big difference between how many years people get. There are people who die earlier than others, and on average you can see it in the sense that there is, of course, a predominance of people who die early among those who have low-paid jobs. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162134	Does the Conservative People's Party believe that it is an individual problem for the individual worn-out citizen, or that it is a challenge that we should tackle together, so that we can maintain the basis we have for our welfare society, namely that we see that there is a fairness, justice, social contract, so that, regardless of the fact that we can have very different starting points in life, we can all look forward to roughly the same number of years as seniors?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162205	No, I do not accept that, because it is not the case that the state has decided or is responsible for some people dying earlier than others. If that were the case, I would agree that in some way people would be owed something extra if they died earlier. But the problem is, we don't know who dies early. Otherwise, we could do something good for them before. But I simply do not recognize the eternal quest for everyone to have one's life and that it is the fault of the state if it does not succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162237	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162253	SF wants to create a fairer pension scheme. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution which seeks to correct the imbalance we are experiencing when the senior years are approaching. As it is now, the inequality that exists in working life increases when we enter the senior years. A worn-out pension proposed by the SF will correct some obvious absurdities. It is high time that society took proper care of the citizens who have had a hard working life and who have worn down physically or mentally. We live on average longer, and that's nice for most, then. But the average covers some very large differences. There is a big difference between the length of the individual citizen's life. We can even predict some of this difference. 25% of the longest educated men live 10 years longer than 25 per cent. of the shortest educated men. However, we should not tolerate the extreme social imbalance also giving access to very different senior years. It is high time that we put an end to the raw class society in this area. Many workers are experiencing a brutalisation of the labour market, and worn-out citizens are desperately looking for emergency exits to decent lives. In order to achieve justice, the elevator towards retirement must stop on several floors. I believe that everyone, regardless of their social background, should be given the opportunity to do something like the same number of good senior years. In order to receive an early retirement pension, you have to be completely worn out, disabled or very ill today. Many are denied, and many others get it too late when both body and mind are worn out completely. And the conditions for obtaining the new so-called senior early retirement pension are exactly the same as for receiving an early retirement pension. It is therefore far from solving the problems. Quite a few citizens have, moreover, been awarded the senior early retirement pension. So it hasn't made the elevator stop on any more floors. There is a need for a new system which allows retirement to take place in the past, even if you do not meet the conditions for early retirement, a system which is based not on whether you can work but on how many years you are expected to have left. You should be able to receive a retirement pension five years before the age of your retirement. The criteria for the award of a retirement pension may include: • the level of training, the number of years spent on the labour market, the degree of wear and tear and other health problems. The pension must be based on the situation of the citizen and not on the financial interests of the municipality. Equality and justice, yes, it is really to treat people differently, and it is high time that hard-working workers were given access to several good years in senior life. I have heard several parties today who have exactly the same concerns as we have in the SF. I can hear that there is agreement among several parties on the challenge itself, but disagreement about what we have to do in concrete terms. However, if a majority in the Folketing can see the injustice in the current situation with extremely unequal access to good senior years, then we should also be able to come together to create opportunities for worn-out citizens. Let us show the worn-out citizens that this so-called social majority here in the Folketing can actually get together. We in the SF have deliberately drafted the motion for a resolution, not as such, concrete instructions on how to build a new pension scheme in detail, but as much as a proposal for a debate in which we have very deliberately failed to determine what concrete model we can link together. Let us find that model together in the so-called social majority. Because the challenge is clear in front of us, so let's find the model. In addition, I would like to thank all parties for responding to our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162740	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162746	I think there is almost a need here to review exactly what the purpose of the Folketing is. It is not really a circle of debates. If you want to raise a debate, you can write a speech to a newspaper or raise a debate elsewhere. In tabling resolutions, it is because there are things that need to be implemented that have a bearing on the way in which the laws operate and, in this case, on the way in which the pension system operates in Denmark. So it is not the case that you can just put forward proposals for something, because it would be fun to discuss it. We need to be able to respond specifically to the way in which what is proposed should be implemented. I would very much like to know how this is going to be done, because the SF has not mentioned a word about funding, and this is very expensive. Giving passive support to people costs a lot of money. I find it hard to imagine anything other than that a billion dollars will have to be paid out here. Where's that money coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162847	In fact, part of our thoughts on the motion for a resolution is that, in the process that is under way now, we can identify how many people can be expected to fall under such a system. We do not have the analytical power needed in SF, but from now on we have a process in which we have the opportunity to identify how many people can be expected to fall under it, and then we can make some calculations about what the scheme will cost. And at that time we will give funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162917	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162919	But then you should have asked for a calculation to be made. The SF has here asked that we adopt this scheme before, and it is even a relatively specific proposal for a scheme to be achieved five years before the age of retirement. So it is not the case that there is room for another way of organizing it if we adopt this motion for a resolution, that is to say when we get some figures which show that this is not connected at all. If you think about it, would it not have been smarter to ask for a calculation of these things before a motion for a resolution was tabled?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405162953	I understand, sir. Rasmus Jarlov again is very concerned about the process, and it is probably also exciting. I am a little more concerned about how we can jointly find arrangements that will meet the many worn-out citizens who are desperately looking today for exits to a decent life. And our idea of not being completely detailed in the description of it is that we are not sure that everyone is able to point out exactly what it is you have to do other than the parties that point to us not doing anything. I am inspired by the German model and in part by it in Norway, but I just do not think that any of them address it sufficiently precisely. So we will therefore be very interested in discussing with the parties of the Folketing how to see a scheme screwed together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163037	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163041	Thank you. Now it can be said that the difficulty with the SF's proposal is that, apart from the fact that it has to work from five years before retirement age, the scheme is not specifically described. That is also what might make the discussion a bit difficult. That is why it is impossible to say what it costs, because the detailed criteria are not described beyond the five-year period. But unlike Mr. So I am not going to criticise the rapporteur for that part. On the contrary, I commended the rapporteur for presenting the proposal on the basis of the same analysis of reality as Enhedslisten. Then we just have to recognise that we have, what can be said, a good job to do, and there is debate and the exchange of ideas, of course, a good thing in contrast to the view of the Conservatives, namely that we do not need that at all. So still praise the rapporteur for raising the debate. Thank you. What I have a question for is where the rapporteur sees the social majority in here. I haven't heard. I have heard the alternative, SF and Enhedslisten agree that there is a need for a solution in relation to the group of people that we also do not entirely agree to define. Then I have heard the Danish People's Party say that this senior early retirement scheme should be looked at. It's still not a majority. Where is the social majority mentioned by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163203	Well, maybe it was spring that got rid of me too. However, I think that having heard a number of different rapporteurs for the parties after all recognise that the challenge lies ahead of us and I think that I hear signals in addition to the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, I also thought that from the Social Democrats and from the Danish People's Party I heard a willingness to do something about the challenge itself. I could well hear that there are very different ways of establishing a system, but I heard both parties say that we are faced with an obvious absurdity here. And then I just thought, well, that's gonna have to be possible. I just mean, as well as this, what joy the people who die early and who are worn out early have from the fact that the average is rising, one can say: What joy do they have from the fact that the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party are giving the right speeches? We must be able to use it for something if we agree on the challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163256	I fully agree with the latter. However, unlike the rapporteur, I was actually a little disappointed by the Socialists' speech today, because when we last discussed it here, namely in connection with the last legislative proposal, L 140, on the increase in retirement age in autumn 2015, the Social Democrats' then rapporteur said that work was being done on a proposal which, like this one, would solve these problems. And the proposal was targeted at the group of unskilled and skilled workers who become worn out and who cannot reach the retirement age and the retirement age. But I don't think we've heard anything about that today. So the rapporteur probably agrees that a prerequisite for a good discussion on concrete solutions is for all those who could form a majority to report what they want, and then hopefully we can get something knitted together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163351	Yes, yes, but now it is neither the first nor the last time that the Socialists disappoint us, is it? Nevertheless, I would like to note the many signals from the party that they can see that the challenge exists out there and that it is a question of us, together with the Socialists, finding a system that takes care of the worn-out citizens. In the same way, I choose to listen to the Danish People's Party. I know that they may want to look more at a revision of the senior early retirement scheme, but I am just saying that the first step towards being able to do something about this is to recognise that we have a challenge and that there is a problem that needs to be solved to the benefit of the worn-out citizens. And I heard the Danish People's Party say that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163430	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163445	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163503	Thank you for that, President. Yes, it is true that the bill we are discussing here is about a hand-out to some of the companies that are challenged by a PRS payment because, firstly, they use a lot of energy and, secondly, they trade a lot with the rest of the world and are therefore competitive against other systems where you have a different arrangement for your taxes. The Socialists are in favour of this proposal. In fact, this is a complete continuation of the growth agreement that we made ourselves with a wide range of parliamentary parties when we were in government in 2014 and which gave both a general but also a targeted relaxation to some of the companies that needed a hand-out in relation to the PSP. At that time, we chose to introduce aid, the hand-out, first for the companies that had previously been approved by the European Union, but we have not said at any time that other companies, if they otherwise met the requirements of being challenged, competitively exposed and have a particularly high electricity and hence the PRS, should not be included. This is the step that the current government is taking now, and we think that is a minor element, but an important element for precisely the companies involved. So, immediately, we are in favour of the proposal. I also have to say that we think that, when we discuss PSP, it is quite important that we also address the slightly larger issues: how to ensure a long-term PSP solution, which is in line with EU legislation, how to provide security around the green transition, so that the people who have to invest in the green conversion know what they have to expect and how to help all the companies, and not just those that this proposal is about, to meet some of the challenges that we are funding right now. We are in favour of the work of the committee. On the other hand, I would also urge the government to tackle the right solution to the problem. I have promised to greet the Radical Left and the SF and to say that they are also in favour of the concrete proposal and the hand-out to these companies, but they would also like to signal that they want the government to take action to address the more fundamental, major challenges of our PSO system and the charges that stand in the way of both companies and the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163739	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163743	Thank you. Among the consultation responses we see a very good proposal from the Renewable Energy organisation, which is about graduated the PESO support for the energy-intensive companies. One could imagine a criterion in which companies can only obtain the aid if they use electricity when it is below a certain price, i.e. typically at night profits. In this way you could actually hit two flies with a spanking, because you would then also raise the demand for electricity where the price is lowest and thus raise the price. What is the rapporteur's comment on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163827	I agree with both the rapporteur for the Alternative and with Renewable Energy that we need to look at how to move some consumption more generally. I am not sure that all the companies concerned in this particular case would be able to move their consumption to a sufficient degree to ensure that this would be a helping hand. In fact, I would say that my rejection is not based on the fact that I think the idea is wrong. My rejection or my immediate scepticism, I would rather say, is that I consider this proposal to be a corner that is important for some individual companies that have a challenge. However, I think that, with regard to the major problem, namely a lasting solution to our tax system and the organisation of it, it would be more appropriate to also have a discussion about differentiation at different times.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163913	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405163928	The bill here, L 160, is part of the implementation of the agreement called "Growth and Development in the whole of Denmark," which the government entered into with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party back in February. Elements are included here as one of the 16 elements of the agreement. Therefore, I can hardly surprise anyone by saying that the Danish People's Party of course supports the bill here, when it is the implementation of an agreement that we are part of. We think that this is a good agreement we have made, also in this area of state aid to companies that are hard pressed by PRS. After all, for many years we have been critical of the fact that this very massive effort on renewable energy has been being made, financed through state aid to the owners of green energy and recovered from the electricity bill of households and companies. All other things being equal, Danish companies have been put into competition with foreign companies which do not help to pay for green conversion in their countries, and it cannot therefore be ruled out that it has cost Danish exports and Danish jobs. That is why we in the Danish People's Party have endeavoured to help make arrangements to compensate companies for this PSO payment, and it is also gratifying that we have succeeded in having some relaxations made on several occasions. This is a further step towards that, and we are quite happy with it. Therefore, I must say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164110	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164113	As with the previous rapporteur, I should also like to hear Mr. Mikkel Dencker on how the rapporteur will look at creating a graduated PSO aid scheme so that the differences in electricity prices are more eliminated. As I described earlier, one could have a criterion that support for electricity consumption is only given when the electricity price is very low.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164143	I would say that we are then open to all sorts of ideas on how to ease the company's PSO load. But I also think that we should be careful to make administrative arrangements that are too difficult to deal with, because if we do, we risk putting in place what we gain by helping businesses through increased administration, both in companies and in the public sector. So I think you should be careful about that. Now we are also faced with a choice in not very long time when the Danish PRS scheme is to be rethought, so I will not make any suggestion as to how to repair the existing system when it may already be abolished in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164226	We just have one more question, and that's Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164236	Now there are a number of annexes and some background material to this bill, and the rapporteur stressed that competitiveness could be challenged in Denmark. One of the annexes to the background material is a question which I have asked Question No. 67 in which the answer to this very clearly states: The total Danish electricity price incl. PSOs and charges have been below the EU average for most size categories of enterprises throughout the period 2009-2014. That is to say, the Minister has recently replied to me that Danish electricity prices, including electricity prices. PRS, and what else could be of tax, in terms of our external competitiveness, is a good thing. Is the rapporteur aware that this is the case when we have to deal with Danish competitiveness?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164332	In other words, I am aware that there are very different prices for electricity in different countries, and that is because the consumer price or the price paid by companies has been put together in different ways, with different levels of taxation. That's the way it is. However, there is no doubt that since we in Denmark have chosen to finance green conversion through a PRS contribution, which is put on the electricity bill and the individual consumed kilowatt-hour, all other equal Danish companies are placed at a disadvantage in competition with their foreign competitors. Therefore, we are pleased that we in the Danish People's Party are helping to make a relaxation that makes Danish companies better placed in the competition than before.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164414	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164416	Well, if we look at the answers, the story until 2014 has been that, as a Danish company, we have not been disadvantaged than the average in the EU. And then, since 2014, there have been some further relaxations of the PSP. So I really do not think there is any reason to go further and make further reductions as proposed in this bill. So I think it is clear that there is evidence that Denmark is well placed if competitiveness is to be prioritised, and that there is also evidence to say that the Danish expansion of renewable energy has helped to ensure low electricity prices in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164449	That's the difference between Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti... one among many differences. I understand from the rapporteur that because there are companies in other countries that are more difficult than Danish companies, we no longer have to do anything in Denmark to improve the conditions of Danish companies. There we have such fundamental disagreements. In the Danish People's Party we would like to have as good conditions as possible for Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164510	Thank you, sir. Mikkel Dencker. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164520	Thank you for that, President. L 160, which is a legislative amendment on state subsidies for electricity-intensive enterprises, is a proposal that has been in the pipeline for a long time. It was actually back in the last parliamentary term that we started by looking at this problem. The matter was raised by the then energy rapporteur of the Left. Now he is such a former energy rapporteur and current minister, and he has finally got something done about it. This is an issue that has worried many, of course our energy-intensive companies in particular, and that is why we are of course very pleased that we are finally dealing with this issue by relaxing some of the electricity taxes for those companies that use the most electricity, some of the manufacturing companies that we have in the country, and that is why the bill also has a rural policy hint, because with this bill we are getting better conditions to run production activities throughout Denmark. But these companies are mostly located in rural areas, which is why I am delighted about this. It is also part of the bill, which is of course about ensuring a better balance in Denmark, and therefore it is natural that we now comply with the approx. Fifty companies in Denmark that are most at risk in this area. I have nothing further to contribute to the legislative proposal itself and to what it deals with. The previous rapporteurs have been about this. But all I have to say is that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164705	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164709	Thank you. As I have previously asked the previous rapporteurs, I should also like to hear from them about the good proposal from the Organisation for Renewable Energy, in the consultation answers, i.e. that they should be consulted, for example. could imagine a criterion that electricity is used only when the electricity price is below a certain limit which triggers aid for reduced PSO payments. What is the rapporteur's position on such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164737	The intention, which the alternative promises, is really good because it jumps out of the fact that they want you to use the energy when it's most of it. That is a good idea, but it is not a proposal that we in the Left support. It is the case that there are companies that do not have the opportunity to go in and make this differentiation of when you actually use your energy. There is also a great difference in the country, on the one hand, when you need your energy and, on the other hand, which companies you get your energy from, on the other hand, which tariffs you can buy it for. So there are big differences in the country. We must not make the system more bureaucratic. As I also said in my speech, it is a proposal that has been going on for a long time, so I do not think we should start questioning how this proposal has been knitted together, if we want to ensure rapid implementation, so that it can quickly come into force and support the many companies that are hungry for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164842	However, the idea should be to create an incentive structure which would allow companies to invest in local storage media or otherwise adjust their production to enable the flow to be exploited when it is cheapest and thereby also to obtain the support provided by the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164908	Yeah, that's right. That is certainly the intention of the proposal. This is not a proposal that we support in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164914	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164918	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. It is understood that the rapporteur is naturally an impatient soul who welcomes the fact that something is finally happening in this area. We should not delay that further. But another area in which we think the government should address is the more general issue of the PSO. So I would just like to know whether the Left agrees that it is a little urgent to resolve the problem of the slightly larger drawing with the charges that stand in the way, both for the green conversion and for the companies that produce in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405164951	In the Left, we share the Minister's view on this issue, and that is that it is urgent, and that is that we urgently need clarification in the field of PSOs, so that we know how to knit our energy policy Danmark map forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165009	Will the Left also urge the government to perhaps take up discussions on this side of the summer about how we can get a system together that solves some of the challenges we have, both for companies and for the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165025	Well, that discussion's kind of going on. We are already discussing how to knit it together in the future. What we are waiting for is the subsidy and tax analysis. The minister has guaranteed that he will deliver it as soon as he can. Now he's had 8-9 months at the helm. After all, the previous government spent almost three years doing the work that is then very impatient that the current minister has not delivered. After all, we share this impatience throughout the Folketing, because this is a crucial and important issue. But it must also be said that the most important thing, after all, must be that we make the right decision on the basis of the right assumptions. So I actually believe that both the Social Democrats and the Left are completely in line with this issue of getting the discussion started • yes, we have opened the discussion • but also to have those reports presented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165125	Since I do not see Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding in the Chamber, I assume that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, who has pressed in. So here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165135	It is difficult to find a way around when there are not so many in the Chamber. I could understand the rapporteur's emphasis on making the right decisions on the basis of the right assumptions, and that sounds very good. In this context, it is of course a pity that we do not have the PESO analysis commissioned through the energy conciliation, which is probably one of the three analyses that the Minister promised at a consultation on 4 November would come within three months, and that would then be before 4 February. That has not happened, and now we have to deal with a legislative proposal today, and I think we could do it on a better and more qualified basis if that analysis had been there. I am a little surprised that the rapporteur likes to stress that it is now important to move forward. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is the case that there is a description of these 50 companies that can benefit from the legislative proposal we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165236	Now I heard more questions. But just as it can be difficult to keep track of your taboos, there are also many other issues that can be difficult to keep track of. One of the major questions that the previous government spent several years analysing, but to which it never came up with an answer, was precisely this subsidy and tax analysis, which has now gone a month over time. So I think with all due respect that the most important thing must be that we get the right information so that we can make decisions on the best possible basis in the future. Compared to the approx. Fifty companies, which are estimated to benefit from what the draft law is dealing with here, i.e. a relaxation of the PSOs, are not, I am aware, a description of what it is exactly for some companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165332	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165335	Now the rapporteur is trying to subdue the fact that the analyses have not come and that they have gone a month over time. I was recently at a meeting where the Minister said there would be three reports in May. I think it is a pity that these reports are so late, because it is so just before Parliament goes on summer holidays, and I think that it would have qualified the debate today if it were the case that we had had the PESO analysis so that we could better see what the best instruments are. So I don't think you should just talk around. It is therefore important that we make decisions on the best possible basis, and I do not think we are doing that here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165410	If the rapporteur is right in his claim that they should come in May, then they have gone 3 months over time and not 3 years over time as with the previous government. What I fully agree with the rapporteur is that we must make the decisions on the best possible basis, and that is why, of course, we are waiting for the reports to go on for three months over time. After all, this is something that is independent of the grant and tax analysis, but which is only an important initiative to support production companies in Denmark and therefore also the many jobs that are in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165444	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165456	I think that there are several ways to support companies in Denmark, which is why the analysis that was available would be very good. I think that some stories are sometimes heard that there are some Danish companies that are heavily burdened by PRS. If you take Aalborg Portland, you will see that in 2014 they had paid 36 million. kr. in PRS and that the same years had an accounting profit, a profit, of 812 million. kr. So if they didn't have to pay PRS, they could have had a profit that was then 4%. bigger, and then the shareholders would probably be 4%. Happier. Now we had a consultation earlier this day, a sort of rehearsal on this examination of the bill, and there I heard that the Minister had visited some companies. Holmegaard Glassworks was mentioned. In the meantime, I have not been able to find their PRS payment in their accounts, but they have a turnover of 587 million. kr. They have a result of just over 28 million. kr., and you can't see how much PSO eats of the profits, but it might actually be nice to know. However, there was something else interesting in their financial statements, and it was that they had arrived at providing district heating to Fensmark District Heating, and that this would have resulted in district heating consumers getting 25%. cheaper heat. Surely it must have improved their operation that they can sell hot water to some neighbors. I do not think that there is only one way to support business. If, through these tax and subsidy analyses, we could find a way to use more surplus heat from companies in Denmark for a reasonable payment, so that both district heating consumers and companies were happy, that would be a solution. That would be something that could support companies. It's not just a question of screwing a PSP button. That's why these missing analyses are a problem. We will then have to deal with a legislative proposal in which it is made clear that there are 50 companies that can benefit from a scheme. It is certainly true that they can reduce their costs in this way. We do not think in the Enhedslisten that this is a good thing, and we do not think it is the best solution, and that is why we are opposed to the legislative proposal we are discussing here today. I think it would be much better if we were to point out what it is for some companies, what problems they have and what opportunities there are to support them. There would be some of these companies for which a district heating solution could be found to improve their operation. There would probably also be some companies where there are not enough people nearby to choose a district heating solution. Then you could knit something together, where you would greatly help those companies to reduce their costs by reducing their energy costs. We would very much like to be involved in this. This is also why we have previously been involved in the creation of the Danish Green Investment Fund, which is a fund that has been knitted together to ensure that pension funds move into the green transition in Denmark and can ensure that companies can obtain relatively low-cost loans, where there is a state guarantee on the loan, which helps to make it cheaper. So there are several ways to support business. It's not just turning the PESO button. So the lack of analysis seems to me to be a problem. I really think it would be nice, in a committee procedure, to know a little more about what the PRS load of these 50 companies, which have the prospect of reducing their PSOs, is for a problem we are facing and to what extent the PSO is being reduced by this bill. I think when you spend millions on this, you have to think about how to use them. I do not think that this has been knitted together in the best way, and that is why the Enhedslisten is going against the bill and looking forward to a committee procedure which can uncover some aspects a little more closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165839	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405165852	Thank you. Now we come from a consultation where the Minister has made clear how serious the challenge of the somewhat dubious construction of the PSO system is. The PSP is and remains the elephant in space for the entire Danish energy policy. Something needs to be done, but no one, and unfortunately the Minister, does not seem to have any clear proposals on the solutions, at least not now. But the whole misering of the European Union should not stop us from continuing with patching solutions at home, and that is what this law is all about. The control of expenditure has come completely out of hand, and now we are also trying with a patch for 2016 of 10 million. kr., so that we can solve a problem that may in fact be 500 times larger, if we assume that business cost this year lands approx. 5 billion kr., which looks very likely. Having said that, I would like to say that the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the proposal. Not only are we in the agreement that is being implemented here. Of course, we also generally welcome the relaxation of the PSO that has run out of hand. We would have liked more account to be taken of the real costs of companies and not just some average Eurostat statements, but we should not be separated. The bill is moving in the right direction and, of course, has our support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170025	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170028	Thank you. As I have also asked the previous rapporteurs, I would also like to hear from the rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, on how he looks at the proposal in the consultation answer from Renewable Energy, which is that one could include a criterion that only electricity is used when the electricity price is low, below a certain limit, which then triggers support for this reduced PSO payment. In this way, we could help the entire PSO system. There could be an increase in demand for electricity at the lowest price and thus also a reduction in the total amount of aid from which the PSO would be burdened. How does the rapporteur view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170111	We could easily take some justice considerations that might draw in that direction, but we are a little more at a solution that sort of solves the real problem, and that is to take hold of the PSP and tear it up with roots. After all, this putting in additional levels doesn't change the fact that we keep fighting with the PRS, which I call an elephant in an energy cage. The Liberal Alliance has also tried to argue in the conciliation today that it is a bad thing to have a tax, as we see here, which increases when the price of energy falls for our competitors, so we cannot avoid there being distortions of competition, regardless of how we turn it and how we turn it, and whether or not we take some particular ceiling and base considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170208	Then proceed to the next question, which is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170214	It is true that there is a correlation between the low electricity prices and the size of the PSP, and therefore it is also reasonable when we discuss the PSP, with the Danish systems we have, that we look at what the total costs are when you add electricity price and PSO tax together. So that's why this hetz against the PSP can't stand alone. At the same time, you have to rejoice over the low electricity prices. This is among other things. The expansion of renewable energy, which has helped to ensure that we have low electricity prices in Denmark. So it is not fair that the rapporteur should be solely concerned with the PSO. If you have to deal with it in a reasonable way, you add the electricity price to the PRS. It is interesting that there is background material for the draft law today, which clearly shows that we in Denmark are well placed in relation to the competing countries to which we are closest. So that hetz versus the PSP seems to me to be not fair on the part of the rapporteur. I would like to know whether the rapporteur is aware that there are those annexes to the draft law here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170311	Then I would like to hear the questioner from Enhedslisten whether he is aware that we are actually in the situation that we are paying a production cost of 70-80 øre, sometimes up to 1.05 kr. for renewable energy, while at the same time we can buy the energy for 13 cents out on the market. That this would mean that the fact that we have invested in renewable energy has made energy cheaper, I find it hard to understand. That's how I understood the questioner. I know the annex mentioned, but because you are on an average, it is not good if all the other countries also turn up their costs, such as the United Kingdom. The Germans have done with the solar cells and Spain has also done with the wind turbines. Then there's a high average out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170358	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170401	After all, we have some windmills that are currently helping to secure these low energy prices. We also have some offshore wind turbines that have been set up after a tender was held, where it ended up with only one bider, and it ended up with a high price. You can take one example, as Mr. Villum Christensen here does, with the Anholt mills, but we are also in the situation that when we get beyond their first 10 years of life, you have seen a windmill production out there that does not receive any support whatsoever. So it is clear that there are some years that will be a little more expensive in the overall system, but one has to look at the whole of it, and it is actually a good system that we have developed in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170440	Well, I understand it's a good system. When the electricity price goes down for all other countries, it goes up in Denmark to great trouble for businesses and consumers. It's not a system that's grown in our garden. It's a planned economic system. We would much rather set up a system where technologies are not subsidised individually, considering that when you produce that year you get so much and so many megawatts that year. We would like to see a situation in which all technologies compete on equal terms and in this way can pick up the market reactions. We can't do that with this plan system. That is why things are going so wrong that we are now paying almost twice as much in PRS as we had imagined in 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170521	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170530	As a starting point, the alternative is critical of this aid scheme, because it goes against the whole idea of charging what we do not want, namely emissions of climate gases, and channeling funds into support for what we want, namely renewable energy. It can be said that it is of course not a great deal to increase the scheme by 10 million. kr. and 50 additional companies compared to a framework now of 189 million. kr., but it's the whole principle that worries us. At the same time, when you hear that the total cost of electricity in Denmark compared to the EU on average does not run off violently, you may understand that the need is not quite as great as it is presented in the draft law. Here I would like to highlight Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's example from Aalborg Portland, where the PRS payment is 4 per cent. of the profits. Therefore, the alternative is not immediately for the proposal, but generally wants to work to ensure that the PSP scheme is addressed, for example. as the Organisation Renewable Energy proposes in their consultation response, that is, that it could be a criterion that only electricity is used when the electricity price is below a certain limit that triggers support for reduced PSO payments. We also believe that the demand for an agreement on energy efficiency with the Danish Energy Agency, which lies in the proposal, is a little vaguely formulated. One could strengthen it and work for a firm binding agreement on phasing out over a number of years of fossil energy in the production of that company or the like, before we can count on something seriously to happen in the energy-intensive companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170713	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170734	I regret that I was not quite clear, but it is not often that two parties are not present. In the Conservative People's Party, we are pleased with the agreement that was made in February 2016 on growth and development throughout Denmark, where we agreed to facilitate the PRS tax for the electricity-intensive companies. It's gonna come around. Fifty companies benefit from, for example: the horticultural industry and food production, which is given a much-needed hand. I understand that it must be deadly to see, for example, a horticulture that they just find it difficult to compete with similar horticulture abroad because they are subject to a very high PRS bill, which the others do not have to finance in the same way in their business model. So I think it's very reasonable that we should have a look at this. Then it has to be said that we are facing a general huge challenge with the PSP and how we are going to finance the whole of our green transition in the future, because we are agreed on that. Fortunately, there are no parties in the Danish Parliament who do not want to or maybe I have some doubts about that, but at least most parties in the Danish Parliament want us to be independent of fossil fuels by 2050. It is clear that it must be financed in order to achieve this. We are pleased that, at least here at first, we have found a solution with the PSP for the energy-intensive companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170856	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170859	Thank you. I would like, in line with my questions to the previous rapporteurs, to hear Mrs Mette Abildgaard about something: there has been a very good proposal from the Organisation for Renewable Energy that the PSO payment could be graduated, or perhaps, in fact, a demand for the system to be used only when the electricity price is below a certain limit, where support for reduced PSO payments is triggered. What does the rapporteur think of such a mechanism?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405170932	Well, it has to be said that we are facing a total restructuring of our entire PSP system, because it has been overruled by the European Commission, and therefore our focus will be on managing the future after 2017. It can be said that it will also be difficult for some companies to stop their production after the low price applies. Of course, for some it will be easier than for others. I fear that this will be a bureaucratic model purely administrative, but I must honestly admit that I have not looked at the proposal from Renewable Energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171001	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171014	Thank you to the President and thank the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law. I would also like to thank you for the very, very positive attitude that has been expressed. I am pleased that the bill allows us to relax the PSO payments for electricity-intensive companies affected by a high PSO. The draft law strengthens the competitiveness of businesses. The bill amends a current subsidy law from 2015 so that more electricity-intensive companies can receive subsidies for part of their payment to PSP. This means that the electricity costs of companies are significantly reduced. In order for this not to lead to greater electricity consumption in the companies, the grant is conditional on the companies concluding an agreement on energy efficiency improvements with the Danish Energy Agency. In this way, we will not relax our ambition for a more energy-efficient business environment. The draft law entitles all companies that can demonstrate that they are electricity and trade-intensive in accordance with the European Commission's State Aid Guidelines to receive grants. To this end, 10 million will be targeted. kr. In 2016, new entrants will be included in the legislative proposal. The draft law also provides for a financial reserve of 100 million. kr. Annually from 2017 to 2020 to increase the subsidy rate for all the companies from 2017. The amendment of the scheme must be approved by the European Commission before it can enter into force. My ministry is already discussing the proposal with the European Commission and it is estimated that approval will be possible in the second half of 2016. It is sought that the grant to new entrants may have effect from the announcement of the law, which will take place immediately after the draft law has been adopted. However, this requires the approval of the European Commission. I welcome the interest that Things have expressed today in the draft law and I look forward to constructive discussions on the single elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. With those comments, I would like to ask for the bill to continue to be dealt with in a friendly manner. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171234	Mr President, we have a brief comment to make. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171238	Thank you. I would like to dwell on this point of energy efficiency improvement, i.e. that energy-intensive enterprises must reach an agreement on energy efficiency improvement in the context of aid. What means does the Minister envisage that the Danish Energy Agency can use in such an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171258	I mean, it's gonna be arranged, like that one. has taken place in the field of the horticultural industry, where an agreement is reached between the Danish Energy Agency and the industry on how to implement energy savings and energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171312	The next question is Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171318	I think it is a pity that we do not have this PESO analysis which might reveal that there were other ways of meeting the business community's desire to reduce their energy costs. I think that I regularly hear about companies that would like to sell some hot water to the local district heating supply, and that we have a little left to get a solution that makes it easier. I have then noted that one of the companies that the Minister has visited recently, Holmegaard Glassworks, has come up with a solution where more district heating is sold to Fensmark District Heating, and I think that is a good thing. This must be a way to help businesses to promote sustainable solutions while at the same time achieving a better economy. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister has an assessment of how many of the 50 companies that will be catered for here could also have been accommodated if a district heating solution had been found which would allow more warm water to be sold to the local population.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171417	I very much, very much, would like agreements to be concluded between companies and district heating plants to provide district heating. We are also prepared to see whether the framework conditions are right. It should also be seen from the analyses that we are still waiting for and which I expect will come very soon that we are getting outlined some of the options that are available to make it even more attractive. However, something might also suggest that it is indeed the case that the current subsidies for district heating and excess heat are sufficient. At least that's what the Ministry gives in relation to a number of these projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171453	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171455	Well, it's nice to hear that the minister has a knowledge that the minister uses in connection with these bills, and then we have to wait for other ministries to be so ready to deal with things that the rest of the Folketing can be allowed to see the analyses. I look forward to that very much, because I do not think it is good to have to deal with such legislative proposals, where it is well known that there are some analyses which have been made or almost done and which could qualify the basis on which we would like to take decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171525	Thank you. It was mostly a comment, but I can just say that I am doing everything I can to bring out those analyses in the light of day as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171533	We thank the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20160405171547	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 6 April 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
