ParlaMint-DK_20161130130009	The meeting is open. Mette Bock (LA) has announced that she wishes to resign as fourth Vice-President from 29 November 2016. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course. To replace Mette Bock, the group appointed Mr Leif Mikkelsen (LA) as the fourth Vice-President of the Bureau. The person concerned is then elected. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children and Social Affairs (Mai Mercado): Bill no. L 94 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the conclusion and dissolution of marriage, the law on aliens and the law on guardianship. Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 95 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health, the Law on the Authorisation of Health Careers and on Health Care and the Law on Access to Complaints and Compensation in Health Care). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20161130130104	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 1 December 2016. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130130127	Thank you, President. We have called for this urgent debate, as we have seen a recent rally in the bicker gang environment, which has had the clear negative consequence that there has been a series of shootings in public space. Recently there was a shooting in Magasin in Lyngby, where the bullets flew around the ears of ordinary people and where a woman was injured. Of course, we cannot be served with such conditions in Denmark, and that is why we need to act. That is why we have called for the urgent question here today to identify what steps can be taken to ensure peace, order and security throughout the country, because you should not be afraid to run into a shooting just because you are travelling in public space. I look forward to hearing the Minister's answer to the question that has been put, and I look forward to hearing the rapporteurs' various suggestions for good solutions. I should also like to thank the vast majority of parties for their support for the possibility of an urgent request. We in the Danish People's Party are very happy about that. Thank you for that. I'll have the floor again in a few moments.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130130241	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Justice for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130130252	Thank you for that and thank you for the opportunity to have this urgent request. I am very pleased about that, because it is a very serious issue and it is something that we must have done something about. There have been a number of shootings in public space in recent months. Let me start by stating that the brutal and ruthless crime of rockers and gang members challenges the very fundamental values of our society. We must not put up with the blackmail, violence and shootings of rockers and gang members, which create insecurity and endanger the lives of innocent people. I can therefore also guarantee that the new government will, by any means imaginable, combat the harmful and unsafe behaviour of bikers and gang members. We're gonna fight hard. Before I go into any new initiatives in this area, I would like to outline briefly the current situation in the biker gang environment. The National Police have reported that in 2016 up to and including the shooting incident in Lyngby last Tuesday there have been 45 shooting incidents in the public space, which are estimated to relate to the biker gang environment. The shootings have taken place in Odense, in the metropolitan area and around Næstved. In the metropolitan area alone, there have been over 20 shootings, and we have seen completely innocent and outsiders injured by gunshots. This happened at a shooting in Copenhagen's northwest neighborhood and most recently at the shooting incident in Lyngby. It is the opinion of the National Police that several of the recent shootings in the Greater Copenhagen area are connected to the Mongols biker group, but it is still unclear whether the people Mongols have a disagreement with are part of a real bickering or gang grouping, and it is therefore too early to conclude whether the shootings in the metropolitan area represent a real conflict between two or more groupings in the environment. In relation to conflicts, according to the National Police, there have been six violent conflicts in the biker gang environment in 2016, one of which is still pending. This conflict involves, on the one hand, the gang groups Black Army and Black Soldiers and, on the other hand, the bikers Hells Angels and AK81. The National Police estimate that this conflict culminated in the end of August 2016, when a person associated with a department of Hell's Angels in Germany was shot and wounded at a gas station in Nyborg. Subsequently, there have been several violent incidents, including shooting incidents related to this conflict. There is currently a particularly high level of tension in the biker gang environment on Funen, where the conflict is mainly taking place around the clubhouses and resorts of the groupings. Until very recently, it was the National Police's assessment that there was also a violent conflict between Bandidos and Satudarah. The violent incidents that took place in connection with this conflict occurred mainly in the vicinity of the Members' residences in Næstved. The National Police have reported that at the end of July and in the following months, the police detected increasing riots in the biker environment in Næstved. On 23 September, a person associated with a biker group was shot in front of a supermarket in Næstved, and there have subsequently been several violent incidents, including shooting incidents, which, according to the National Police's assessment, related to the now concluded conflict between Bandidos and Satudarah. The ongoing conflict continues to increase the level of tension on Funen, and the contrast in other parts of the environment, especially on Zealand, has become significantly clearer over recent months. The police are closely following developments. The fight against biker and gang crime is a priority in the police. The National Police monitor developments in this area closely and ensure a national overview of environmental developments. The information and knowledge obtained shall be used, inter alia: to organise national and local strategies. Task Force East and Task Force West also contribute significantly to the gang effort. This is done through the use of observations, interceptions, interference with the confidentiality of notifications and other tools which can be used within the framework of the Code of Procedure. The aim of the forward-looking work of the Task Force East and Task Force West is to take the most active and benchmark actors to account for their actions and put them in prison. Both the local police and the Task Force East and the Task Force West use a wide range of tools of different kinds, including those that have been introduced with gang pack I and gang pack II. Thus, in 2016, the police have set up 20 search zones in order to obtain some of the weapons that flourish in the biker gang environment. In addition, the police have used the possibility in the so-called biker law to temporarily close seven clubhouses in order to reduce the danger of people living near or walking close to the clubhouses. In times when the police consider that there is a high level of threat or conflict in all or parts of the environment, the police intensify and target their efforts. The targeting shall dampen the level of conflict and reduce the potential damage. That is, for example, the case. Happened after the shooting in Lyngby, which I will now turn to. Many citizens were out enjoying a mild autumn evening, perhaps to secure the first Christmas shopping when shots were fired in Lyngby on 22 November 2016. An innocent woman was tragically hit in the chest by a shot. The incident shows how stumped people in the biker gang environment are and how infinitely little they care about the surrounding and real Danish society. Following the shooting incident in Lyngby, a special meeting of the Task Force East decided on a number of concrete measures to strengthen cooperation between the Zealand police, Task Force East and the National Investigation Centre of the National Police. One of the actions is the establishment of a major investigation group across Copenhagen Police, Copenhagen Police and North Zealand Police. The investigation team shall ensure close coordination of investigations into killings and attempted murders in the Greater Copenhagen area. Another step is to uncover the possibilities for launching new investigations against the most violent individuals and the possibilities for targeted efforts to seize weapons in the bicker gang environment. A third step is that, with a view to enhanced coordination between Denmark and our neighbouring countries, the initiative should be taken to hold an operational meeting under the auspices of Europol. In addition, the North Zealand Police Department has decided to intensify the presence in the area around Magasin and the train station in Lyngby. Specifically, there will be walking patrols to ensure visibility and, in addition, focus on creating security for citizens. At the same time, they must contact local entrepreneurs in order to carry out safety-building talks. In addition to police action, the previous government has already taken a number of initiatives to counter the series of shootings in public spaces that we have seen, particularly over recent months, but also the crime that generates profits for the biker gang environment. Bills have been tabled to make it easier to shut down the activities of hash clubs through the issuing of a visitor ban. At the same time, the police must have effective and modern investigative tools. A legal basis will therefore be created for the future use by the police of an analysis platform which will be particularly useful for the compilation of data and complex investigations, for example. Aiming at the biker gang environment. Soon the bikerborg committee will come with their recommendations on how to strengthen the efforts of the authorities towards biker castles, and in addition, the parties in the blue block have ensured a doubling of the minimum penalty for possession of firearms from 1 year to 2 years in the Finance Act 2017. This is to be seen as a response to the recent shootings in public spaces and as an indication that the government has a very high priority to get firearms off the streets of Denmark. The government will present the bill on sharpened penalties for possession of firearms in the new year. I have mentioned here today some of the ongoing initiatives that make it harder to be a rocker and a gang member. However, as the new government's basis shows, this government is going to hit rocker and gang crime even harder. We will strengthen control of bikers and gang members; we will limit the possibilities of parole; and we will do what is possible to prevent bikers spreading fear in local communities. The Ministry of Justice is already fully considering a number of new initiatives to be included in a future biker gang package. The ambition is to set a harder course against the biker gang environment and create an overall pressure of authority that makes it as intolerable as possible to be a rocker or a gang member in Denmark. The fight against bikers and gangs is an important fight. I am quite sure that we in this House share the view that bikers and gang members must be combated by all means. I would urge that we disregard bias and possible political, tactical considerations. We stand together in this fight against the gangs. I look forward to your cooperation. I look forward to discussing it with the parties and getting good ideas on how to ensure a secure Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130131310	Thank you for that, thank you to the Minister. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130131323	Thank you, President. As mentioned in my motivation for the urgent question, we have witnessed a number of shootings in large parts of Denmark for some time now. There have been shootings which have taken place in public places where ordinary, law-abiding citizens have their everyday lives. This puts ordinary people's lives and abilities at risk. It is a development that has caused us deep concern in the Danish People's Party, because we believe that every shooting that is is one shooting too much. In the same period of time there has been a flare-up of activity in the biker gang environment, a greater raison d'être than before, when cynical criminals are willing to fight for control in the public space and shoot around themselves knowing that the consequences can be fatal to those people who are just in the wrong place at the wrong time and thus put at risk of life. Action is needed and there is a need for the Folketing to have a new biker gang package adopted as soon as possible. can give our society additional opportunities to attack the problems. The Danish People's Party will point to a wide range of tools that we can use to push the rockers and the gangs, so that you as a law-abiding citizen do not have to wonder if you can be put at risk by travelling in public spaces. There is a need to take a more consistent line against those criminals who are already an established part of the biker gang environment, who have committed serious crime and who do not signal any remorse or desire for penance and recovery. This type of criminal understands only one thing: sanctions. It is time to suspend the possibility of members of biker groups and swear parole. They must be punished once they have committed such serious crimes that they have only ended up in prison. It's only fair and fair. As another key element of the negotiations that will be about a new biker gang package, we in the Danish People's Party have a very strong wish that there should be an independent focus on that part of the registered bikers and gang members who are not Danish citizens today. The former Minister of Justice stated at a recent hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs that about a third of the gang members did not have Danish citizenship. It's a very high number. It's an incredibly high number. A natural focus for us will be to look at how we can effectively get convicted and expelled the group of members in the gang environment who do not have Danish citizenship. Imagine how effective it would be if, in this way, we could get rid of one third of the problems in this criminal environment. If we could, it would probably have been the most successful biker gang package that has ever been delivered in this area by then. At the same time, we must count on the expulsion of non-national criminals to have a deterrent effect on others in a similar situation which is considering starting a criminal career. If some of these foreigners cannot be sent out, I expect the Minister to take strong action to ensure that, when they commit crime, they are sent to serve in other countries, for example. Romania, as the former Minister, under pressure from among others. The Danish People's Party worked to land an agreement with. The conclusion must be that foreign criminals should not be in Denmark. But action must also be taken against the detention sites of rockers and gangs where crime arises. We have seen it in many municipalities that have suddenly been overtaken by the tired development that a rocker castle has been established. The local authority's ability to intervene is modest and, at the same time, the citizens of the local area are left feeling, together with the municipality, powerless to deal with the criminals who are free to establish themselves in the area. It's gotta be harder than that. The municipalities must have the tools that mayors demand. We also know that many bikers and gang members are heavily indebted to the public, and it is unfair that this money cannot be recovered. This is typically not the case, because many bikers and gang members live absolutely well financially, and yet many of them owe money to the public. Something needs to be done about that. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party believe that the future should be such that if bikers and gang members do not contribute to reducing their debts to the public sector, they should of course have to pay the penalty. They simply have to go to prison if they do not respect law and law and if they do not solve their economic business with the public. Another grip is the use of absolute cumulation of the penalties imposed by rockers and gang members. This really means that they are going to spend longer in prison as the total of offences are added together so that no discount is given at all to bikers and gang members. It is also a proposal that we in the Danish People's Party would like to have included. Punishment measures work, and they need to make sure that more of the registered bikers and gang members stay longer in prison so that they are away from the streets so that the rest of us can be safe. Another possibility could be to ban back marks for biker groups and gang organisations, where members are notoriously known as deep criminals with many convictions behind them. One could also go further and simply disband the groups and thus have much easier to deal with their activities and their places of residence. The proposals I have mentioned now are just a few proposals that we will take to the negotiating table when we are going to negotiate a new biker gang package. And I can now see from the President that I am about to read out the proposal for adoption. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, I am going to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there has been an escalation in the bicker gang conflict with increasing shootings. The Danish Parliament instructs the government to convene negotiations on a new biker gang package before 23 December. containing restrictions on parole, expulsion of foreign gang members and additional tools to combat biker castles and related crime. • V 13). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130131928	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130131942	Last week, a 30-year-old innocent woman was hit by gunshots that were exchanged between bikers and gang groups in Lyngby. In Odense, there are daily stories of ordinary citizens who are cared for on the roads by gangs and experience shootings • ordinary citizens who have it in common that the biker and gang conflict makes them incredibly insecure. In June a young man was stabbed to death in Vejle, and the stories from Odense, from Næstved, from Copenhagen and from the West Region are countless. There has been a huge increase in the number of gang-related shootings. There has been such an increase in the level of conflict that the police consider that it is at the level of what we saw in the 1990s and, as the Minister of Justice stated, even this year, at least 45 times have already been shot between rocker and gang groups against 17 times last year. In several cities there have long been permanent search zones. Clubhouses are being closed, and there's a lot of evidence that there's a state of emergency in these cities. That is why action is needed. Action is needed now. It is, in fact, a political responsibility to ensure that there are the necessary tools and resources to combat the demonstrations of power by bikers and gangs. We need to build on the existing rocker gang package, which we know has had a great impact on many areas. However, when the criminals develop, it is also necessary for the policy in this area to do the same and for the police to have the tools necessary to restore security among the many people who are experiencing the conflicts at close quarters. Our call to the Minister for Justice must be quite clear: now call for negotiations on new tools for the police, let us show political action in this so important area. This is about the Danes' safety. We are happy to be debated, rather today than tomorrow. We're from the morning, and we're gonna be late at night. And we also have a series of proposals with which I shall now give examples. First of all, we need to limit the possibility of parole for bikers and gang members. They must be locked up, especially while they have a punishment, and not on the streets where they can commit renewed crime. We need to tighten up the arms legislation. Too many people carry guns in the trunk or in the glove compartment, and that's why we see so many shootings. Therefore, the penalty for possession of weapons must be more severe. We need to be able to cooperate effectively with the countries around us on the increasing number of foreign gang groups that are seeking towards Denmark, and we need to be able to send the foreign gang members back home. We must be able quickly and effectively to include the properties of rockers and gang members if they owe money to the public. We need tools to monitor the communications of rockers and gang members. It requires better surveillance tools for the police. We need to strengthen the prevention efforts so that fewer young people are inspired by the bikers and gang groups, and right here we have a great challenge. When we see that the level of conflict is so intense between the growing gang groups, there is a risk that more young people will be attracted to them. We need to address the many threats, to the violence and to the harassment of our prison officers, precisely by inmates from the bicker gang environment. And this requires us to look at the resources and tools inside the prisons of the prison staff. We need to reduce the income sources of bikers and gang groups more severely, for example on the illegal trade and the harsh dominance that we know exists in the field of security. We must make it harder, if not • and we would like to see that impossible, to hang out in clubhouses where there is a criminal preacher on the door. The proposals are many, including from us in the Social Democratic Party. It remains to be seen that action is needed. Action is needed now. We support the proposal for adoption which the previous speaker read out and we hope that the Minister for Justice will see this as a very clear call for negotiations to be convened.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130132505	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130132511	Thank you for the floor. We are faced with a serious problem that is difficult to combat with the traditional tools we have and therefore we need to think new. The reason why it can be difficult to fight is that these people we are talking about often bear a small mark indicating that they themselves believe that they are keeping themselves out of the law under which we others live and respect. Today it is the case that there have never been more people related to gangs and biker groups sitting behind lock and key. That's where they'll be safe for the rest of us once they've been apprehended. The Left would like to see even more gang members in prison, just as we would like them to leave prison only if they want to be paroled as part of an exit program. This is a proposal that we are working on and that the government is looking at. I myself live quite a few hundred metres from Magasin in Lyngby, and it has been known for a long time that in our tiny country there are now a two-digit number of criminal groups carrying these back marks. That is why I am actually happy and positive, because here in the Folketing there is a great willingness to work together to introduce new tools, try out new ideas and go all the way to how we can crack down on these elements that don't want our society. They make a living selling drugs, exploiting other people's misfortunes, creating insecurity, pushing weak people, terrorising traders and businessmen, and doing everything they can to harm the local community they are moving into in the most brutal way possible. In short, every form of biker and gang crime must be combated, and that is why the government will present a new biker gang package in which we put in place effectively with consistency and harsher penalties. We must also look at the social and preventive side, because if the two elements do not go hand in hand, it will be completely impossible to solve the problem. As I said, the possibility of parole must be limited and we will do everything we can to close bikers who spread fear in the community. There are possibilities in the law of plans. We therefore expect to be able to put obstacles in the way of establishing bikers' castles, and this is expected to be more public as early as next week. We also expect the new practice so you can't be on parole as a rocker or a gang member unless you're part of an exit program. I think this is quite reasonable and it will push Members and make the punishment considerably more severe. We need to examine the possibility of changing section 81 of the Criminal Code so that all biker and gang-related crime always gives double punishment and not, as now, only where there is armed conflict between gangs or biker clubs involved. We must work on stricter expulsion rules, more pressure from the authorities through the Al Capone method. It sounds like a movie, but it's not. It's about the public authorities working together. When you stop a gang member with a gold chain or a rocker with a vest and various jewelry, then it may be that you have to take it on a mortgage if the person who is arrested or detained owes the public money. It may also be that you run a business or force others to do so, so that you can be hit by a breach of rules in that area. Last but not least, in this year's financial agreement, we have reached an agreement that the penalty for illegal possession of weapons should be doubled immediately. Today it is the case that you get 1 year of unconditional imprisonment. If you stop with a gun you do not have permission to carry, you will in the future visit Hotel Gitterly for 2 years. The proposals I have briefly outlined here are, after all, a series of proposals which the Left supports. I also hope that a majority in the Folketing will think that it will make it considerably harder to be a rocker and a gang member. But I also take the view that if other parties have good proposals on how to come after these criminal elements, to drive them out of our communities and restore the security of ordinary law-abiding citizens, then I am quite prepared to negotiate on it. That is why I should also like to say that the Left is in agreement with the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Seligman on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Peter Kofod Poulsen read from the platform. We do not think it is a problem that these elements have been requested. Thank you!). We ourselves have proposed several of them and would also have called for negotiations after a short period of time without this question debate. Thank you for the floor. I am sorry for the overrun.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130132946	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130133004	On Tuesday 22 November, two shots were shot at Magasin in Lyngby, and this is the latest of a long series of gang shootings. It is unacceptable that we should not tolerate gangs and criminals shooting in our streets. We must combat organised crime and we must close down their sources of funding, whether they are trafficking in drugs, trafficking in weapons or trafficking in human beings. In relation to the fight against biker and gang crime, Enhedslisten generally believes that in the fight against bikers and other gangs, prevention, exit programmes and social measures must be taken. Today, we are far from good enough to prevent young people from being recruited into gangs, and it is still too difficult to leave the criminal environment, even if you want to. But, of course, and this must always be the case, criminals must also be punished for their crimes. Of course, there can be no doubt about that. The 2013 gang package adopted by the previous government places a great deal of emphasis on stricter penalties and allocates relatively little money to exit programmes and preventative work. There are good elements in the package and there are bad elements. The proposal at that time contained a total of 50 million. kr., and there were punishments for 22.5 million. kr. We believe that more money should be spent on preventive work, especially when it is lagging as much as it does. When we talk preventive work, we talk SSP cooperation, we talk social workers, we talk early in primary school etc. Furthermore, we have seen the preventive work lagged behind the police settlement adopted by a large majority here in the Danish Parliament in 2011 - it was actually all parties except Enhedslisten - which meant that the number of officers was cut from 11,100 to about 10,600. The savings have, among other things, been made. As a result, there are two things that have really had to suffer in the police. One is the preventive work that I have just mentioned, and the other is the police's efforts in relation to forced entry, where we also have major challenges at the moment. A commitment to punishment tends to become populist hoovsa solutions that have no documented effect. On the contrary, punishment against young people at the edge of the biker gang environments could lead to their being put into a serious criminal school in a closed prison rather than into a process that could lead them out of the environment. We would also like to take part in negotiations with the new Minister for Justice, and what we want is to have a special punishment trail for first-time biker gangs in the environment, a punishment trail that leads towards exit and rehabilitation instead of the road directly into the hard core via a criminal school in a branch of bikers and gang members in a closed prison. The particular path of punishment must involve social measures and so-called remedial actions, which give a greater understanding of the consequences of crime, for example. by cleaning up after vandalism or helping the person you stole a car from. Effective exit programs are also an important element for Enhedslisten, in our approach to the area. There must be good opportunities for municipalities to assign gang members in exit programmes a housing and work, if necessary at the other end of the country. It is important that all bikers and gang members who show a real will to exit get effective help quickly. In this context, I have a proposal for adoption, which I will read out, from our side, because we would also like to take part in negotiations. It sounds brief and good: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to convene negotiations before 23 December 2016 in order to launch further initiatives against biker and gang crime. • V 14).
ParlaMint-DK_20161130133432	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130133438	Thank you. Rocker and gang crimes are becoming increasingly ravaged. Shooting in the streets, random passers-bys are the victims of increasing and unrestrained brutality. It is so blatantly unacceptable that it is almost trivial to say so. That is why, of course, something needs to be done. In connection with the agreement on the Finance Act 2017 the four blue parties of the Danish Parliament have decided to increase the minimum penalty for possession of firearms from 1 to 2 years, and the government is launching a series of initiatives to ensure a closer investigation of biker and gang crime and the environment around it. A major investigation team is being set up across major Copenhagen police circles to ensure close coordination of investigations into homicide and attempted homicide. The bicker gang environments are transnational and, in order to combat them across borders, it is also obvious to make use of Europol in an enhanced effort to combat the ravages of criminals in Europe. That is why, of course, it is crucial that, alongside upgrading national efforts against biker and gang crime, we also ensure that Denmark remains part of Europol, even after the new regulation comes into force in May next year, and from the point of view of the Liberal Alliance, it is a commitment and a responsibility that, in general, falls to us in the Folketing. Then we're gonna have a biker gang package III, where we're gonna start on the long track as well. In the Liberal Alliance we look forward to the discussions on such a new package and, since the text presented by the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats very well outlines the government's intentions in this area, we support the text put forward by the two parties, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130133646	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130133651	I have a question with regard to the proposal for adoption and what is actually the policy of the Liberal Alliance in this area, because one of the sentences concerns the expulsion of foreign gang members. It is the case that today there are people in Denmark who have come here as very small people and who have been here all their lives, but who for various reasons have not received citizenship, because it is very difficult to obtain citizenship in Denmark. And it may be that they belong to a group of people that certain parties in this Parliament want to show, despite the fact that this is not possible because of the European Convention on Human Rights and the rules on family unity. This wording should then be understood as if the Liberal Alliance wanted a breach of the Convention and a dispute with the European Convention on Human Rights in the way that the Danish People's Party, for example, wanted. Is that what it wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130133754	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130133755	No, that's not how it's supposed to be. It is good and well-known policy in the Liberal Alliance that we want criminal foreigners to be able to be sent out of the country more effectively, but it is also our policy that, of course, international obligations must be respected. We are thus in favour of having a solid international legal order, because the alternative to that is that you have an international holocaust, and we will never be able to measure up to Denmark becoming a country that shows people for example. torture. So that is, of course, within the framework of the commitments we have made. From a liberal and humanistic point of view, that is also the right thing to do, so it is within the framework of those conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130133843	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130133844	Is it to be understood, then, that when the Left, as a government party, says that the conventions must be challenged in precisely this area, that this is not the position of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130133859	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130133900	Now it is the case that the Liberal Alliance has also become a government party. I am quite sure that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has noticed that the conventions should be challenged. Because in a number of areas they are obsolete compared to the time in which they were written, and the intention to do so is, of course, to maintain an international legal order. I am concerned that, with the challenges that exist in the actual world, particularly in connection with the refugee and migrant crisis, and with the political perception that exists in the countries that have joined the Convention, even in a country such as Denmark, which has been the driving force and has also been an international advocate of the maintenance of human rights, there are some interpretations in the conventions which make popular support for them as silently crumble. That is why it is a matter of due diligence to reform the conventions so that we ensure that we continue to have an international legal order.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130133959	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130134006	Thank you. After all, this query debate is about addressing the increase in shootings among bikers and gang members that we have seen, and most recently in Lyngby here recently. I heard on the radio this morning that both the Social Democrats' and the Danish People's Party's rapporteurs were out talking about the need for action, among other things. through proposals to give the police more powers and to withdraw parole, which we have also heard about in this Chamber today. In his speech, the Minister of Justice said that we must strike hard, put hard on the ground and fight by all means. In the alternative, we in no way disagree with the need to address the huge challenge of crime in the biker gang environments. However, I very much miss hearing the word 'prevention' from the Minister for Justice, and I miss the focus on preventive action. And when I say that, it is not just because, in the alternative, we are those who are only in favour of prevention and preventive action, but because all research and all knowledge indicates that if we really want to do something that works, it is about prevention. I am sorry that the Minister of Justice was not with us for good reasons, because he was not the Minister of Justice at the time. On our trip to the Danish prisons not so long ago, we heard on the bus a presentation by a researcher from Aarhus University. I'm sorry the Justice Minister was in on this! I'll take it back. That's when he wasn't the Minister of Justice. I'm sorry. Well, then I can refer to this presentation on the bus by Lasse Lindekilde from Aarhus University, where he just pointed out that many of the young people who become criminals in the biker gang environment are young people who feel socially isolated, have some psychological challenges, are lonely and maybe in general have difficulty in life. It is not to justify that they go out afterward and commit acts that we, as a society, cannot support. But it certainly provides an explanation, in relation to where you could take action, if you want to prevent something on the longer track. That is why it points to the need for preventive action, and the report contained in the background to this debate shows that a large proportion of the rockers and gang members are actually able to get out of the environment again, but that 66 per cent. of the bikers- and gang-related people are new faces. And I am very much in agreement with Mr. Rune Lunds's arguments that there is a need for some special efforts in relation to these new faces, so we need to think more preventive and in restorative exit programs. We need to think more long-term if we do not want to have the same debate in this Chamber in ten years' time. Finally, I would like to say, and others have also mentioned, that drugs are an income base for the biker gang environment, and there is such a need to stifle that income base. We therefore need to experiment with new solutions from a political point of view. In Portugal, they have done so with good effect in the form of decriminalisation of hard drugs, and there are places in the United States where hashish has been legalised, also with good results. So I would like to call on the Minister for Justice to also look at alternative options for combating the income base of the biker gang environment. In these words, I look forward to continuing to develop long-term political solutions to this problem with both the Minister and the other rapporteurs. I have to say from the point of view of the Alternative that we support the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130134408	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130134413	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In the Danish People's Party we have a tradition of supporting other parties if they want hearings or if they want urgent questions and other things, so I would like to ask the alternative rapporteur why the only party would not allow an urgent request to be made. I do not think that is compatible with the debate dogmas from the Alternative that we should be better at listening, we should dare to take the debate and so on. So why would the alternative not support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130134441	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130134443	Thank you. There is one reason for this, and that was that it was an urgent request. We would have liked to have a question that we had agreed to at any time on a question, but we see some fundamental challenges in our parliamentary system with the tendency to rush things through. That is what we basically do not support. Nor did we support the urgent legislative proposals made by the government earlier this year. So it is simply a fundamental opposition to it being an urgent question, but we would support a request at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130134514	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130134516	So the alternative will eliminate the possibility of urgent questions. That was one thing. The second point is that hash trade was mentioned as an element of the rapporteur's speech, and I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he is not aware that there is a significant drop in the consumption of hashish by young and young people, so can he not interpret that the current strategy and pressure put on hash trade have actually been successful, in that fewer young people will be able to try hash before they become of age?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130134543	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130134545	That was two questions. First of all, we do not necessarily want to abolish urgent questions, but we would very much like to look at what criteria are used to call an urgent question rather than a question. I do not have a complete answer to what it should be, but we think there is reason to take it up in Parliament. Does it legitize the fact that there has been a fall in young people's use of hashish, that we should not then try to look at a legalisation of the hashish trade? I do not think so. We have to remember that there are two different elements in this. One thing is the young people's use of hashish and what it does to the body we agree that hash is not healthy but something else is when hash is used as a revenue base for the gang-rocker environment, and I see that is not lost in scope. I have certainly not seen any experience or reports of this myself. It is still a major problem and that is why we believe that the only right way to go to stifle the income base is to legalise cannabis.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130134636	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then no one else has any brief comments. The radical rapporteur is not here. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130134645	After all, we are discussing this problem today against a tragic background, because there have been shootings on the open street in Lyngby, in Copenhagen, in Næstved and in Odense. And let me first state that I believe there is complete agreement in this Chamber that we find this totally unacceptable. There should be no shootings on open street. There should be no shootings in general, but there should be no shootings on open street where we see innocent people being hit, nor shootings through windows in rooms where there are children and sleeping. This is totally unacceptable. SF wants to do what works. In our legal policy, we walk on at least two legs. One leg is what some call the sense of justice, others call it revenge or a counterweight to vigilante, namely that we put people in prison when they have done something criminal. And by doing so, we also have the opportunity that we are still cultivating in Denmark and that we must continue to cultivate, namely that we have a proper rehabilitation and rehabilitation effort such as upgrading, training and so on. The second leg is, of course, prevention. Well, we can keep putting people in prison, but if it doesn't help anything, there will still be victims, and there will still be insecurity on the street. And those two legs are equally important. That is why, of course, we in the SF support both the proposal for adoption and today's debate. I would like to say that I too, on the part of the newly appointed Minister of Justice, and congratulations on the appointment, lacked a greater focus on prevention. Prevention sometimes gets a reputation for being such a soft and left-wing and cozy thing. Well, we have to do what works, and I would actually like to praise the Ministry of Justice for having a research office and employees who do research and look at what works. We get reports over and over and over again, and you really go seriously and look at what kind of people are in the rocker gang environments, what kind of things that work and what doesn't work. We have all that knowledge, and we must also use it, while at the same time saying that we are tough on the hard ones and that there must also be consequences of the criminal acts committed. I would like to mention one point which I believe the rapporteur of the Alternative also mentioned. Because according to the public debate, you'd sometimes think that once you've gotten into a biker gang environment, you'd hardly get out again. However, the study by the Ministry of Justice's Research Office shows that there is a rather large flow, there is a rather large flow of people. Some come in, some come back out. But to those who want to get out of it, but find it very difficult to get out of it, we also have a commitment that is something the SF will bring up for negotiations with the Minister of Justice, and I think we all have an interest in that, too, to ensure that the exit programmes that are are are working. Sometimes we have heard stories that some who would jump out have had to wait months and even for up to over a year to get into an exit program. After all, it does not exactly encourage anyone to take the risks that may be associated with leaving a violent and criminal environment, so that we do not also stand ready with a helping hand. SF is also very interested in mentally investigating young first-time criminals. We can see that 70%. of those who are in sheltered institutions are young people suffering from mental illness. They suffer from personality disorders and other things. And if the fact that they have problems has a connection with their criminal career, that is also where we have to take action. It is our basic view that we should do what works, and that does not mean that there should not also be consequences when we have broken the law, when we have helped to create insecurity and perhaps even caused violent damage to other people. Some of the things we would like to focus on in a review of the rocker gang package and the whole legislation about this are that, in addition to focusing on the consequences, we focus on how we can improve the exit programmes, how we can ensure the opportunities to get out of this environment, and focus on prevention, so that we do not get into the environment. And it is of course a great deal, especially in the case of young people, of SSP cooperation, of engaging with abuse programmes, housing offers, socialisation programmes, and perhaps also of ensuring that there can also be work for young people in some of the more and more socio-economic companies that start from below and flourish, and that is fantastic. So a summary: We would like to take part in looking at whether the consequences should be different than they are today. We are just not convinced (President Den summing up must be short) and we are not sure that that is what is going to solve this once and for all, so we would really like to bring some of the things I have mentioned into play. And I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130135228	Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130135230	I have a question for the proposal for adoption because, among other things, there is one point I would like to make. It says that negotiations must be convened, and it says: containing limitation of parole. Then I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware that, in the last five years, Parliament has already imposed limitations on parole, and I would like confirmation from the rapporteur that parole is not a right today. It's something you get if you behave, and if you screw up, there's no parole. Following on from this, I would like to ask the rapporteur from the SF what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen actually believes is more precisely meant by the limitation of parole in the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130135323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130135324	I think you can read it a little differently, depending on which party it is and what policy you have in this area. I fully agree with Mr. Rune Lund in that parole isn't something that happens per year. automatic. That is why we are always a little reluctant on the part of the SF to legislate more about some of the things which should, to the greatest extent possible, be based on professional judgement, on how the person concerned has behaved and whether he or she is re-socialised, etc. etc. But we also think it is fair enough that we say on the political side that gang and biker crime is simply one of the things that creates the most insecurity in our society. That is why we in the SF also think that it is fine to enter into a discussion on whether it should be reduced even more, because this type of crime is so serious and not only those who are just being hit or, at worst, are being shot or what it may be. It simply spreads to the rest of society. And I don't want a society where at some point we have to have metal detectors in front of schools or armor glass or whatever it may be. That insecurity doesn't go away with this. That's not what I'm saying. That is why I put so much emphasis on the so-called soft measures and prevention, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130135451	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130135453	As I understand what the rapporteur is saying, there are no concrete ideas or initiatives which the SF thinks should be introduced when, as the SF wishes, I have to assume, because it says in the proposal for adoption that there should be a limitation of parole. Then I would just like to say, as far as I'm concerned, that you can't get a horse to run for a carrot it can't see. And if parole is a carrot to get out and be resocialised in society, then you have to make sure that you don't make that carrot so small that it doesn't become attractive and we don't achieve what is the purpose of a parole, namely to get people back into normal life after they've been in prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130135539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130135540	It also depends entirely on how these negotiations are proceeding. I am not here today, and neither are the other rapporteurs, nor am I listening to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, who also wants to discuss these things and take part in negotiations and give final answers. That is what we need to do in the negotiations in the Ministry of Justice. But once again, I would just like to say that it is fair for me to look at whether there should be less parole than today, while there should be room for this assessment in criminal services and elsewhere in the institutions, in prisons. There must still be room for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130135622	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. The Liberal Alliance has spoken on behalf of the Conservatives, and then it's the Justice Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130135633	Thank you for so many fine expressions. This shows that we in this House, at least far along the way, I believe, agree that what is going on in the case of bikers and gangs is not going to be accepted. We'll come after them and we'll punish them harder. Then I know that someone thinks you should put the pressure somewhere else. I feel like what we're gonna do first is make a biker gang package. I look forward to inviting all parties to debate how we proceed, to debate what each party has in the bag, so that we make the best possible biker gang package at all. It's amazing that all parties want to play a part, and that's what we're gonna come up with after New Year for a new rocker gang package. It's great that you want to be a part of it. I must also say that we must bear in mind that when it comes to the new biker gang package, bikers and gangs are involved, we are talking about a raw environment, and frankly I think that those types will laugh all the way from the couch and back again if they hear that what is missing when we talk about bikers and gangs is prevention. I agree that prevention is important, in the right place and at the right time, and that is also why we will later discuss juvenile delinquency, where young people are moved away from crime. I do not think we can talk much about prevention when we talk about bikers and gangs. For people who are members of a gang, I do not think there is so much prevention that is useful if I am to be quite honest; there I think it is a lot about us being hard-pressed. And now that we are tightening up the sentences for possession of firearms from one to two years in prison, they are sitting there for so long, and that will have a great effect, I am absolutely sure. And along with the many other initiatives we need to get going, we just have to make it really, really difficult for these gangs, with search zones, with police surveillance, all the way through, we have to make it really hard for them to be criminals. It is still unacceptable to shoot in the streets of Denmark, we should not put up with that, we cannot stand for it, and we must therefore fight hard. Then you can discuss whether punishment works. If you get punished, don't you ever do anything again? Yes, some people do, but it's also about the right of the people, it's about the fact that as a human being and as a citizen of this society, you have to be able to see that those people who are running around shooting people, people who organize themselves in gangs and live on crime are not rewarded for it, but are being punished hard for it, and that the police are coming after them all the time. So prevention does not seem to me to be something we should spend a great deal of effort on when we talk about biker gang packages, but I would like to use my energies when we talk about young people and about preventing them from getting into crime. However, I do not believe that a biker gang package and prevention are very much intertwined. So I'm gonna look forward to hearing all the good ideas. We have heard some of them today, and I look forward to them calling for negotiations and bringing a new biker gang package that makes it even harder to be a criminal and even better to be a law-abiding citizen of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140012	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140017	First of all, congratulations on the job of Minister of Justice, and then my first question comes up. Because, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, we would like to see a special punishment trail for first-time criminals in relation to biker gang crime, where instead of sending first-time criminals into a closed prison in a biker gang division, that is, a real criminal factory, a special punishment trail, focusing on exit programs and restorative actions. Such restorative actions can, for example: be that you clean up after vandalism, or that you help the person you stole a car from. That is another way of thinking about prevention, or at least one way of avoiding the recurrence of crime. I want to hear from the Minister for Justice whether these could not be concrete examples of how we can do something that is preventive and that has a real effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140119	Thank you for your congratulations. I can hear that when we're about to talk juvenile delinquency at a later stage, that is to say, the action against some people who do something the first time, we'll have some new friends in the Enhedslisten. I was a little surprised, but I am very much looking forward to discussing that. But when it comes to biker gang crime, it is not a question of saying this: hey, now I'm just a gang member. Rocker-gang crime is organised crime, and there we cannot force anyone into an exit programme if they are not motivated for it, but it is clear that those who want to get out of gang crime must of course help. But I guess I don't have such strong feelings for those who commit crime and are part of the biker gang environment; I don't think it's a pity for them, or that they have to be taken so lightly on board regardless of whether it's the first or the fifth time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140214	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140216	I don't think it's too bad for anyone either, but I like doing what works. At any rate, I note that the municipalities today should have better opportunities to offer accommodation and jobs to people who would like to go through an exit programme, so that people who show a real will to get out of the biker gang environment are also given the opportunities to actually do so. And isn't that something we should be discussing when we meet for negotiations at the Justice Minister's office?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140249	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140250	Well, I can't wait to hear what everyone says, and what everyone says comes on the table in the first place. I just feel like we have to be careful that, in our eagerness to get people out of crime, we don't almost send a signal of a special reward to them. I think there are many law-abiding citizens who think: I would like to be helped to a home, a job and other things. I think it's a balance. I recognise that we must be aware of getting people away from crime, because it is good for the Danish citizen, but there is also an edge as to how nice we should be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140331	Thank you. Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140333	Also a welcome from here to the new Minister of Justice. This is very serious. Well, when you usually talk about bullets flying around the ears of peaceful people, it's such a saying. But we have come to the conclusion in Denmark this year that it is no longer a saying, but in fact the most concrete description of what is happening, most recently in Lyngby, but also in Næstved and elsewhere. Personally, I also have my family life close to a rocker castle, and I would like to say that it is good to hear that initiatives are being considered and that something is happening in the new year. However, I think that today's adoption text should be seen as an indication that we are a little impatient. Because this thing with the bullets flying around your ears isn't new when we look at the year here. I would like to ask about something that I have not really heard the Minister say. After all, it is no secret that some of these bikers and gangs are foreign groups, and so I have to hear the Minister about how he views cross-border police cooperation in the future, i.e. the ability of the Danish police to work with police and investigation units in other countries, given that Denmark is about to leave Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140437	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140439	It is fortunate that tomorrow, as far as I remember, we have the pleasure of discussing Europol in this Chamber. However, it is the case that our position is, in this way, clear: we must do everything we can to have the closest possible cooperation with Europol. So, the Danish police benefit from Europol. It is important for the Danish police to be able to search the databases precisely to find out how things stand with foreign criminals in order to get to grips with those cases. So there I do not think there is any disagreement between the questioner and the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140520	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140522	Now I know that we often go for the disagreement here. It was not so much what I was fishing for, if you can call it fishing, when we have such a fine debate here in Parliament. I share the wish expressed by the Minister here for the closest possible cooperation. However, it is quite serious that our police will lose some of the tools they can use in relation to the part of gang crime and bicker crime that is cross-border. What I actually wanted was: what are the places where we are going to lose opportunities we have today? Because that will be one of the things that we will have to sit around the table and look at how we can mitigate and contain. It can never be as good as it is today, and I hear the Minister say that too. But I assume that this must also be part of what the government is looking at in relation to the discussions that we hope will be held very soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140612	Thank you. Now it is more because it is initiatives in relation to a biker gang package that we are discussing. It is not because I in any way neglect the importance of what Europol can do and that the police have those opportunities. Of course. I fully agree with the questioner. Our interest is to ensure that we can be the best possible part of Europol in the future and have access to the best possible part of the databases. We just have to say that this is a fight we are fighting right now, namely how we can get there, because of the way in which the majority of the Danes spoke last year, on 3 December. And then we have been trying ever since to find a way to continue to strengthen ourselves at Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140651	Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140653	Thank you. First of all, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that it is not discussions that are being set up in the proposal for adoption, for which there is a majority, but negotiations. So we can discuss a great many things in a way, but it is negotiations that we want to start by 23 December. By the way, it would be a happy Christmas gift to be able to give the rockers and the gang members. But what I really want to ask the Minister is one of the things the police themselves are asking for. The police say very clearly that they need tools to monitor the communication between bikers and gang groups. What does the Minister intend to do about it, and when can we expect action to strengthen this desire that the police have?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140745	But I fully understand that the text says that it is for negotiation. I am quite sure that the questioner is also interested in the fact that all good intentions and positions must be included in these negotiations, and that is why I am quite sure that the author's party will come up with a lot of ideas as to what should be included in such a rocker gang package. I would say I look forward to that. It is true that the police are calling for many opportunities to keep an eye on criminals, and there is, of course, the fact that we are currently working on a legislative proposal on new logging rules to be put forward at the beginning of the new year. Now, just not a final decision has been taken on the content of the bill, but the model being worked on means, among other things, that the police will be able to know in future where a potential perpetrator has been. But it is not yet final how that game is going to look. Of course, we take this very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140845	Here you go, Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140847	One of the things we see especially in cities like Odense is that these gang groups are doing power demonstrations through pedestrian streets and blocking traffic, walking with their back marks down the streets, creating insecurity. Is that something the Minister intends to do about? Will the Minister look into the possibility of being able to take effective action against these demonstrations of power or restrict the use of these back marks, which create incredibly great insecurity in the street picture?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140921	I would very much like to discuss it, but at this stage I do not want to dwell on a lot of concrete elements. It is now possible to get completely confused these days 2-3 days ago, I was given the opportunity to sit in the chair as Minister of Justice, and I think that all proposals are welcome. We must do what we can to put an end to this, that there are people who create fear, and yes, it creates fear when you walk with backmarks, so within the framework of the rule of law. I think we have a common interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140953	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130140957	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for the two fine speeches, first the reply and then the speech. And congratulations on the new ministerial post, which we will eagerly follow. I would like to ask a few questions about the bikerborg committee, which was supposed to produce a report. Every time we have asked about it in the Danish People's Party because we find it very exciting to get hold of and read the conclusions, we have been told that it was on the stairs it was just by and almost, and now it was approaching. So I would like to ask the Minister: when can we expect to have this bikerborg report so that we can start reading it and the recommendations that might be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141033	I have not received the committee's report yet, but I expect to receive it within a very short period of time. The expectation is that it will be a matter of a few weeks before I have it, but that is what I know.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141051	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141053	Thank you. Then I would like to ask another question, and that is, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, in relation to that part of the gang members who are not Danish citizens. So I think that is so unfair to look at: people who are not even Danish citizens can behave in this way and be deeply, deeply criminal and do not have the consequences that it should have, namely that they are being sent back to their own country. Could the Minister imagine, when we are about to start these negotiations on the bicker gang package, that it could be linked to negotiations which were actually under the criminal justice system, given that, on the one hand, we are giving the prison officers some of the tools they were talking about when the Minister and I and the Committee on Legal Affairs visited the Department of Justice and, on the other hand, have a focus on either deporting the foreign criminals or sending them to serve in other countries in such perhaps more modest circumstances?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141151	I believe that the questioner and I share many views on this subject. I fully agree that what must be the objective is that foreign criminals should, as a starting point, return and serve in their country of origin and that we should also examine the possibility of having prison places elsewhere. I'd be happy to discuss whether there's this possibility. Then I also feel that we must constantly check whether we still want to welcome people who are not Danish citizens and who are criminals into our home, as our country is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141232	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141236	I would also like to start by congratulating the Minister, if he can have more praise. Then I would like to ask what the Minister himself said: the government will ensure that biker castles do not create fear in the neighbourhood. They do that in a lot of places or almost everywhere. Can the Minister be a little more specific about what these initiatives are?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141256	Well, these are the possibilities offered in the planning law that can ensure that you can avoid getting bikers in your neighborhood. That is one of the things I hope we are going to discuss a little more in depth in the negotiations we are going to have, in other words how we can avoid it. But there's an opportunity today. Then we have to look at how to avoid the insecurity-building state as it is when people have a biker castle in the middle of a residential neighborhood or elsewhere. It is deeply frightening, even if you can say that it is just a house that is there and whether it is something to be afraid of. Yes, I would personally be very, very uncomfortable if I lived near one of these.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141338	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141339	Now it is the case that, among other things, there is. are biker castles in the Vanløse district of Copenhagen, where weapons have been found as recently as a few days ago in a neighbouring garden. If there is any reason why it should remain, what can the residents of these roads expect from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141358	What we can do first and foremost is, of course, to look at how we can prevent the bikers from being there. And if there is no way within the possibilities there is, then of course we must do everything we can to stress those who live there searching the house, come after them, keep an eye on what is going on. We have to say that we only have the means we have within what can be said, the framework of the rule of law, but we have an interest in them feeling that they are under constant surveillance. They must feel that when they take a wrong step, we will come after them. Well, I think it's about us simply stress them out of their biker castles.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141432	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141443	Thank you. I would like to return to the issue of prevention. Maybe we're just talking a little bit past each other. The Minister said a little earlier that when it comes to gang and biker crime, he does not really see that this is where we have to talk about prevention, but that it is more in relation to juvenile delinquency. But where I stand, these two things are connected. This applies precisely to prevention for these young people who tend to get involved in some crime, and we must take action to prevent them from acting in such a way that they end up in the gang and biker environment. If we don't do this, we're going to be in this situation a lot of times. So does the Minister not agree with me that part of the effort must necessarily be a prevention effort for some of the young people who are potentially able to act in such a way that they end up in the gang and biker environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141537	That is also what is happening, among other things. in SSP cooperation. I fully agree with that. I was just commenting on it the way I did, because I'm thinking that right now we're discussing a concrete rocker gang package. I'm thinking it's something else. Then I fully agree with the questioner that if we are smart as a society, we are doing something to prevent while you are young that it has consequences the first time you do something; that we get them out of crime. I fully agree with that. Then we can always discuss in what way we should do it and what works best. But I actually mentioned it more in relation to the biker and gang problems, because I do not think that prevention helps so much on bikers and gang members, if I am to be honest with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141617	Thank you. No, it is clear that once you are in the environment, prevention may be quite pointless, because then we have gone over that point. But we also have to take the responsibility that somewhere there is a minister who has to sit down and say that now, in conjunction with the specific rocker gang package, we are starting a prevention effort to prevent us from standing here again in 10 years or 20 years' time. So does the Minister agree with me and will the Minister also take the initiative to look at the long-term features alongside the concrete action here, in terms of how we can prevent young people from going to where they are involved in the biker and gang environment in the future at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141655	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141656	I believe that prevention is taking place today through the entire SSP cooperation. But I am looking forward to it and I look forward to it very, very much to the fact that in the new year we are going to discuss juvenile delinquency and sanctions against these young people who are actually being allowed to leave today without any consequences at all. In this context, we can also think about how we can ensure that they do not get involved in crime. We do, among other things. Knows that it has a consequence the first time you break the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141722	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141727	Thank you. I would also like to start by congratulating the Minister. I think what I hear sounds good at the moment. I also heard that the Minister was in favour of allowing these penalties to be paid. I recently put a question to the former Minister of Justice and, overall, it is at present. 333,9 million kr., amounts receivable in fines. So you can say that today, at least, it is not a consequence to get a fine when it is something you can just overlook being ignored. So it is certainly an initiative that will probably make it feel a little more like a punishment than just a piece of paper that one can ignore. In addition, I also think that there might be opportunities in that, when you have three criminal offences, you might actually have to be brought before a judge. As it is today, there are a great many who have up to 80 relationships and more without ever being brought before a judge. I do not know whether the Minister is aware of this and whether it is something the Minister would like to go into and clarify further, so that we actually have a sense of justice when we walk around in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141827	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141831	Without wishing to go into it any further now, because I would like to go into it more, I think it is very sensible that we should have a discussion on how we as a society are not laughing at those who make crime time and time again. So I would very much like to give an undertaking for a discussion on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141850	Mrs. Merete Dea Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141852	That sounds really, really positive, and that's also what I've heard before, so I'm just gonna look forward to seeing what the results of this package are.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141900	Sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130141907	Thank you. I would like to start by congratulating the Minister on the job. We look forward to working together. Then I'll ask you a question about gang crime. It is of course the case that a very large proportion of the members and associated persons in the gangs are not Danish nationals. And that is where we in the Danish People's Party think it is absolutely crucial that those who take part in such activities and are not Danish citizens are expelled. There is, after all, the phenomenon of conditional expulsions which, if you have to translate it from the football language, means that you can get a yellow card and so not be expelled, but that you will then have to fall on fire at a later date. What I would like to hear from the Minister is: is it really a durable model that we have about conditional expulsions? Does the Minister agree with the Danish People's Party that we should actually reject the possibility of conditional expulsions and say: when you participate in gang crime, then expulsion is an expulsion and then you go out of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142014	I would really like to discuss how we move forward along the path that says that if you are a gang criminal and you commit crime it almost goes without saying and is not a Danish citizen, then you really do not have so much to do in Denmark. I would like to help us find solutions about this. I cannot stand here and say exactly how we get there and where the borders should go, but I would really like to discuss that. I might also have the impression that the author's party and the government in many areas could find each other on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142053	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142057	That sounds good, and there is the great advantage now that we agree, but then it will be something, because then we have the majority to be able to expel criminal foreigners who participate in gangs. The reason why I am asking for conditional expulsions is, of course, that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights received an answer here in November from the former Minister of Justice to our question as to how many people actually receive conditional expulsions. And it turns out, in fact, that in the last six years, there are 1,077 people who have received one conditional expulsion. There are 132 who have received two conditional expulsions. There are indeed 30 who have received three conditional expulsions. And there are 8 who have received 4 conditional expulsions. Does that not mean that the Minister should be cleared up in this area and that expulsion should be an expulsion?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142146	Well, it will be difficult for law-abiding Danish citizens to take it quite seriously if you hear about people who have received four conditional expulsions. I mean, where's the ceiling? I think the question illustrates that this needs to be looked at more closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142204	Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142207	First of all, a welcome from my side. I also believe that it is good that we in the Danish Parliament broadly agree that negotiations should be convened before 23 December 2016. I do not think there is 2016 in the text of the proposal for adoption, but I think we can all agree that this is not next year. I should like to return to the question raised by Mrs Trine Bramsen about monitoring and session logging and the elements in it. I am aware that this will not be resolved until a little later, but can the Minister lift a little bit of the veil? The minister's predecessor was among other things. Very recently, in a major interview in Berlingske and also on the Ministry's website, explaining that there were some elements that would be looked at a little more closely, among others. This is because if you use a data subscription, then you can't actually be monitored today. So how many are we actually talking about that the police can't monitor as it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142319	Thank you. I will start by confirming and promising that it will be 2016 we will be negotiating on this. As far as logging is concerned, it is because we are working on a new proposal in this direction, and exactly how many it will be and how wide it will be, that depends on how the proposal is organised. And there I might as well just be honest and say that it has not reached me in the first two days of my new ministerial job, where we are exactly at the stage of that process. I have to admit that honestly from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142404	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142406	No, my question was also more about the extent of the problem. When I think of telephone users, most of the people I know about are not using old classic non-data subscriptions, and therefore my assumption is that there are quite a few that the police are unable to monitor. And if I understand the case of terrorism in Copenhagen right, then one of the limitations was that one could not investigate it because one simply could not get in to look at the type of subscription used by the person concerned. So it's a little relevant. In conclusion, however, how much consideration does the Minister think should be given to the profession here? Is it more consideration than consideration to be able to combat gang crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142507	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142508	In my opinion, account must be taken of both the profession and the legal certainty of the citizens, but also of our security, and that is the balance that should be expressed in the proposal that will come later.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142523	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142526	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the parties of the Folketing and also to the Minister for a good debate. I must admit that I think, sir. Benny Engelbrecht is just as demanding. I know, for example. Not the number of telephone subscriptions in Denmark without data on a stand-by basis, but it may be so good that I am not the Minister of Justice. We can of course come back to that. I think it has been a good and constructive debate, and I would also like to acknowledge that my colleagues from the other parties have had some interesting and good proposals, and we agree that it is both urgent and something that is very dear to many Danes. But it seems like, among other things... Mrs Trine Bramsen is very offensive in terms of what we think can be done, and that makes me think of something. I am not sure that the Minister can answer that now, but it may be that the Minister, with the help of clever government officials in the Ministry, can produce an overview showing what the former Red Government has had on the drawing board in this area when you left the government rooms and whether there is a match between some of the things you are proposing now and what you have been working on yourself or whether you have suddenly come all the way on the offensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142626	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142628	In any case, I am glad that the offensive has been taken completely, and if, as a Social Democrat in the opposition, a tough legal policy is pursued, I think that one should remain in opposition. But I cannot answer the question put by the questioner. I can confirm that, if I had to answer that, it's something we need good government officials in the ministry to look into.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142652	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142654	Yes, and I am quite satisfied with that. I think I take this opportunity to give an indication that I am asking a question, and then we can all get smarter. - Sir... Søren Pape confirm... did I say something wrong? The Minister). I'm sorry. Can the Minister confirm that, in addition to this urgent question, work is already being done in the Ministry of Justice, working on several of the proposals mentioned, including opposition parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142726	It is nice when the rapporteurs correct themselves. I wish that happened every day. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142732	Thank you. I can fully confirm that. Now I understand that the rocker gang package can only get better with the many good proposals that are coming too, but there is a long, long stretch today working on a rocker gang package. Because this is urgent, and we need to make a package like this. We must ensure the safety of the Danes, and this can only go too slowly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142753	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142756	Thank you. After all, the previous government made a proposal and a number of legislative proposals in 2013, but we can always learn more, and some of what we can see is that the prevention efforts and exit programmes still do not work well enough. I would have said to the Minister, if the Minister had only dealt with the area of justice for a few days, that one should then apologize a great deal and that one must have a little patience. But the Minister has been dealing with the area of justice for a long time, and therefore he must also have seen the huge work being done in the Ministry of Justice and elsewhere to get the facts and knowledge of what works on the table. And when the minister says that we have juvenile delinquency here and that we have the bad bikers and gangs there, then the minister speaks against better knowledge. Because there's a flow into the gang and biker environment, which includes: comes from the juvenile criminals. If we are to ensure a greater level of security for citizens together, we must have it cut there, that is, when it comes to those who are being followed in or who follow others into the biker gang environment themselves. I hope we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142914	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142916	Yes, we agree on that. What I just don't agree with is that it's part of a rocker gang package. I think it is something that needs to be addressed when you talk about the juvenile criminals. I fully agree that there is a flow in, and we need to stop that, and that is why prevention makes good sense. When I respond to the prevention discussion we've had with each other, so it's more to say that when I think about rocker gangs package and putting hard on bikers and gangs, I don't think about prevention at all. But I am certainly thinking of prevention in order to prevent the food chain from continuing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142946	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130142948	But there came as late as 2014 a big report from the Ministry of Justice's research office, where you just tried to look at what kind of people are in the biker environment, and it's not one type, that is, some 50-year-old, who has violent convictions or maybe murder sentences, and where pedagogy just bounces off completely. That type is also there, but there are also all sorts of other types, for example. the young hangarounds, which have actually come in a little, but which you can help out again, or you can use some sanctions, or whatever it is, to get them out again. We cannot simply say that this is one kind of person, and that is why I simply disagree with the Minister that prevention cannot be used among other measures when it comes to a biker gang package. It will be very difficult for SF to make an agreement where we do not also look at it, in addition to consequences and sanctions etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130143045	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130143047	I can now hear the questioner saying that I do not agree with what I have said. That is probably why we are in a different place politically. Because I do not believe that prevention helps anything when we talk about bikers and gang members, but I believe that it helps a lot with the right bets. When SSP cooperation works best, it helps with preventive action. But I just don't think that discussing biker gang crime and the package we have to make because that's what it's all about... can be seen in the context of having to look at prevention. There I think there is an abysmal difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130143125	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak now, and the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Thursday 1 December 2016. We shall postpone the sitting for 1⁄2 hours until Question Time at 1 p.m. 15.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130145958	The sitting is resumed. There are, after all, a lot of new ministers to whom we welcome. The first is the Minister of Justice, and it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party who has a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150017	I would ask the questioner to read it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150022	Thank you. First of all, a big congratulations to the Minister. The question is as follows: Does the Minister think that it should have recruitment consequences and if so, what will the Minister do to make sure that this happens, if a police officer refuses to shake hands with people of the opposite sex in the performance of his duties, such as that of the Minister? is the case with a female Muslim employee of the Funen Police Department?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150051	Thank you. I would like to say that, like my predecessor, on this point, I am quite clear that employees in the Ministry of Justice must present themselves to each other, openly and kindly, to the citizens and to other people who are addressing the authorities in the ministry. That is why, as Minister of Justice, I expect employees in the Danish police to show the necessary respect and to be given a hand in situations where it seems quite natural to shake hands with each other, for example. When you meet. Whether or not it will result in the consequences of employment law, if an employee does not comply with that expectation, will, of course, be based on the specific circumstances of the case. This must be dealt with, where appropriate, by the appointing authority of the staff member concerned, but of course on the basis of the terms and the rules laid down. When it comes to a very specific staff case, I do not want to comment on it publicly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150152	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150154	It is fair that we do not wish to comment on a specific matter. In relation to the Minister's answer to shake hands where it seems natural: when you are dealing with a person who, on principle, does not shake hands, this person will never shake hands, even when it seems natural to us. And in what situations would it not be natural to shake hands? In view of whether this is a specific situation, I would say that this is a specific situation, because we are dealing specifically with someone who, in principle, refuses to shake hands. But that's not all there is. This person has been reported in 2007 for treason, and that is by Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, a member of the Minister's party. And there it is natural to ask: when you have a person who has been accused of treason and who has then walked around the Funen Police Department, is that all that matters? In other words, there is a signal value in it, and one must believe that at least at some point the Minister has taken the view that this person may have some rather extreme views.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150304	First of all, I can only give my opinion on my expectations of the employees, and so my opinion is that the necessary respect is shown by shaking hands where it is natural. It may be that you just walk past each other and wave, but if the questioner and I meet each other, it is my view that it is of course quite natural when you turn to shaking hands. This should be done at all times, and when you are employed in the Danish police, you also have to do so. On the second question, I feel that, after all, we must assume that we are innocent until we are convicted of something.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150337	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150339	That's right, of course. Anyway, this person is also a person, for example. has refused to sign the Constitution, which has been the spokesman for the 11 organizations which in the past sued Jyllands-Posten after the Mohammed drawings, who have said that Danish soldiers are a legitimate target and who will not shake hands with men. Are you a good representative of the Ministry of Justice and of the police? Is that the signal you have to send? Are these good and healthy and honest attitudes? It has to be assumed that an employee of the Ministry of Justice also represents the Ministry of Justice, also by his opinions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150414	Well, there are some very clear expectations that you will be told at your workplace what you are doing there. It is true that if you are asked to do what you naturally do, to shake hands and to be polite to other people, you do so. Then one thing can be what you have said and thought, and of course you have done so under the responsibility that you now have. However, in general terms, the issue here is whether to shake hands or not, and I just feel that, of course, you shake hands when you greet people. And so do the employees of the Danish police.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150448	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150453	You shake hands, it's natural. We'll do it when we meet. But can the Minister acknowledge that there are in fact some for whom it is not natural to shake hands? And is it not possible to demand that such persons simply correct that they say: Now we are here; you have a position; there is a responsibility; then maybe it is unnatural for you to shake hands in some situations, but that is natural for the rest of us, and that is what we expect of you? If the Funen Police Department doesn't want to correct this case, does the Minister intend to take action?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150523	I do not have the imagination to imagine that the Fyn Police do not follow the instructions, and I expect management to take care of it, of course, if there are employees who do not follow the instructions and do not act as the Danish police and employees do. And that is among other things. natural, that when you meet each other, you shake hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150542	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Bendixen. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 2 is also for the Minister of Justice, and that is by Mr. Henrik Brodersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150554	Welcome to the new office. I will start by reading the question. What does the Minister intend to do to ensure that action is taken with regard to Uber drivers and their customers after Østre Landsret has confirmed the Copenhagen Byret's verdict on a Uber driver for illegal taxi driving without authorisation and contrary to the taxi law?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150616	The Land Court has now established that Uberdrift, without the necessary permissions under taxi law, is illegal taxi driving. My position is, in fact, very clear: action must be taken against illegal taxi traffic in the same way as other illegal practices are being dealt with. So do the police. The Copenhagen Police Department has consistently focused on illegal taxi driving, and they will continue to do so. Efforts to combat illegal taxi driving continue to be part of the daily road traffic effort in Copenhagen Police, and the patrol police staff are advised that they should be aware of the illegal taxi traffic. The effort has, for the time being, resulted in Copenhagen Police per year. On 25 November, 115 persons were charged with illegal taxi services. In addition, the prosecution is considering what should be done more precisely in relation to the company Uber. By its very nature, I cannot go into that further here today. As the questioner is also aware, there are currently political debates under the auspices of the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing on how taxi legislation should be adapted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150722	Thank you for your answer. It is gratifying that this is being dealt with more than perhaps has been done. There has been a tendency to doubt whether it was illegal or not, and thus have kept much on the mat in relation to looking at exactly this after in the seams. One is that all these charges have now been made, but what does the Minister think about it, that it may continue? It is of course a problem that we have some who are earning up to half a million by just using quote marks to drive communal driving in cars that are not type-approved or with the training required. I'm wondering if you want to tighten this up if there are repeatedly the same relationships, i.e. that the same one is taken several times. Is it possible to confiscate the car, or how will it be dealt with?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150824	Well, law is law, and law must be kept. I fully agree with that. And then, of course, the police have so much priority. I think the figures show that too. 115 charges just show that at least it's not something you close your eyes to with the police. When it comes to sanctions and the possibilities of punishment, that is something that we can then discuss here in the Things. Exactly how it should be arranged and where the boundaries should go I cannot just lay down here today. But I am happy to hear suggestions on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150856	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150858	It is no secret that this has also become a million-dollar business, and it can therefore be said that this is probably high-end financial crime. At the same time, we can say that we are exposing both these drivers and those who drive them to the risk that the cars are not equipped with the safety equipment that needs to be provided and that drivers really do not have that training. I think that is a major problem. That is why I think it must be something that everyone has an interest in stopping quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150933	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130150936	When something's illegal, it has to be stopped. Then how to judge and what forms of crime are to be dealt with, I do not have to judge. However, we are in a field where we are discussing how to promote other forms of economy. That is also why there are some negotiations over in the Ministry at the moment. But right now we have to find out that this is illegal. Law must be kept. The police must pursue those who do not comply with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151009	Then we welcome the co-questioner, sir. Kim Christiansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151015	Thank you. From here, too, we must welcome our new Minister of Justice. I have also received a new Minister for Transport. Now the Minister for Justice himself mentions the fact that negotiations are under way, but perhaps that is so much, because we should have more or less closed those negotiations yesterday, but it was so cancelled because I could understand that the new government might have a slightly different view of it compared to what was there. Now we have 119 charges, and that's fine, but it costs a fortune for our justice system with all these charges. We have also been working on a catalogue of sanctions and, of course, my question will naturally be whether the Minister of Transport, together with the Minister of Transport, could perhaps be prepared to draw up a proper list of sanctions? One could say that it costs so much and so much to drive pirate rides, the second time the car goes, the third time etc., and perhaps we could also impose a penalty on those who use these illegal services.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151113	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151115	It is the case that what we are doing here in the Folketing is, of course, making legislation and adopting what the framework is for punishment. We'd always like to discuss that, as long as something is illegal. How the negotiations are in the Ministry of Transport, I am not up to date with, but I am quite sure that there will be plenty of opportunity to discuss this issue in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151135	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151138	After all, two years have gone by with these illegal activities, and of course the current Minister of Justice should not be blamed for this, i.e. that a little has been slipped in the past. But all the time the talk was that there has been no judgment, so it is not really possible to do anything. Now there is a verdict, and then I find it hard to see why you wait further. In the past, I have been involved in making suggestions in this Chamber that the Ministry of Justice, together with SKAT, should create a genuine task force. We have had it in connection with kiosks who sold non-pawned sodas, etc., illegally imported candy and something like that. Wasn't it possible to set up a task force like this and then have a squat hunt on these? I understand that we may have to finish a taxi bill before, but when it's on the table, can't we get a task force like that working on this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151230	The second question may only last 1⁄2 minutes. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151236	I think it's important to take it apart. Now there has been a judgment, and now we know what is legal and what is not legal. And if something isn't legal, the police should take care of it, and we think we can look at the numbers they do too. Then it may seem rather far-reaching to have a special task force for such a control of a single company. But that is not to say that no action should be taken. After all, the police are in the process of making charges for illegal taxi driving, and then there is also the fact that the prosecution is considering what should happen with regard to the company Uber.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151310	Well, then, sir. Henrik Brodersen one last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151314	Thank you. After the little dialogue that we have had here, we expect to tackle at least some of the challenges that are certainly here and also to put an end to it. Well, we are not the only country in the world where it has been declared illegal, and thus we also have every opportunity here in Denmark to say that we are following the rest of the Nordic countries and that we do not want this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151353	As long as something is illegal, we have to enforce the law in relation to it. I completely agree with that. And then we will have to wait for the negotiations in the Ministry of Transport to show whether this is still the state of affairs, how new taxi legislation might end and what conditions there will be. Right now, the questioner and I fully agree that if anything is known illegally, it is illegal, and then the police must act in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151417	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Henrik Brodersen and Mr. Kim Christiansen. The next question to the Minister for Justice is from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151428	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151429	Thank you. What initiatives does the government intend to take to limit the increasing number of car fires inflicted?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151438	Thank you for the question. I look very seriously at car fires. It is such a form of crime which creates great insecurity in the local area and which is best combated by targeted police action. In Copenhagen, there was an increase in car fires in August, September and October, and the Copenhagen Police therefore put more effort into tackling the problem. Running patrols were therefore deployed in the most vulnerable places, just as the National Guard aircraft were used for surveillance. In addition, additional resources were provided to the research group responsible for all fire investigations and increased cooperation with the National Forensic Centre of the National Police. So far, it seems that the number of car fires imposed is decreasing, and this is, of course, a very positive development, but it does not mean that we can let go of our attention in this area, and the Copenhagen Police will therefore continue to focus on the area and follow developments closely. One can have the rewarding hope that the stakes that have been made have actually had an impact on the fact that we are no longer seeing such a large number of fires.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151556	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151556-2	Thank you to the new minister for the answer. There are, in fact, two things I would like to have braided into this context. First of all, could you assume that it is my fear and absolutely worst case scenario that the number of car fires is falling right now, because it may be colder at night, that is, it is less attractive for these roots to be out burning cars, and that you will be able to see a bloom again as soon as it gets hotter in the air and isn't nearly so cold to be out in the dark hours of the day? Then you can say that you can enjoy a fall for a few months until it gets warmer again. That is the first thing: could the Minister imagine that it was seasonal? Well, as soon as it gets warmer again, you'll see a flare up. It's a boring word to use in this context. That's one thing. The second point is this: we know, for example. from the fires that have been in Fjerritslev in North Jutland, that video surveillance was extremely good and was an important tool for the police to be able to apprehend a person they have now charged. Could the Minister imagine that we should look further at the possibility of video surveillance of the public space?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151709	The seasonal is, after all, a matter of what you think. I choose to believe that it is important that the police have put extra effort into this. Then, of course, I hope it's not seasonal... it would be deeply unhappy if it were so. As far as new tools are concerned, I have a profitable hope that the 1-year pilot project launched by the Copenhagen Police Department on recording television cameras could also help to solve the problem, so that they or those who commit crime can be obtained more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151748	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151750	I am very pleased that the Minister came to the pilot project, because that was actually the next thing I wanted to do. This project has been of great interest to us. We have even had a consultation, but also a question debate on camera monitoring, including this pilot project launched in Copenhagen. One of our concerns is that it is only a few percent of the total number of camcorders I call them security cameras that are still registered, and I would like to know if the Minister has any suggestions as to what can be done to increase the number of registered cameras so that we can take action more quickly against, for example, pyromans, but also against other types of criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151833	It's good to hear about security cameras if you call yourself Minister of Security, because it's about security, of course it does. I also believe that we agree that it is at least my view that it is not just the way to set up cameras from one day to the next. That's why I think it's really important that we follow this project. And then I hope it will be happy, because in this way we only have an interest in the fact that the cameras set up are the right places and that we can use the information the cameras have when we go after those who destroy the lives of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151906	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151907	Could you imagine, for example, that you would like to know what you are doing? adopted rules which said that, for example, when companies are setting up these cameras, they have an obligation to report to the police that now they have set up a camera so that the police get some kind of systematic information more quickly, that is, every time a camera is set up, you know that, and then you can register it? Then it will just be a matter of perhaps a few years before the majority of security cameras are registered, because there is a large change in technology, so you change your cameras fairly often. This must then be a way in which we could, at least in a short period of time, reach the goal of this, rather than registering very few people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130151947	At any rate, it is a question of us just feeling after when security and legal certainty meet each other. And this is one of the discussions that we can then take subsequently on what the possibilities are. Because we have only one interest, and it's as soon as possible to find out and recognize who's doing this crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152007	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, and thank the Minister for Justice for today's work. Now we move on to the Secretary of Defense, and the question is raised by Mr. Malte Larsen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152018	Here, let's try to hear what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152021	Thank you for that and congratulations to the Minister that we can still continue in this framework and meet under these circumstances. I would like to read out the question: does the Minister agree with the President of the Liberal Alliance, Anders Samuelsen, that military service should be abolished and does the Government intend to make a proposal on this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152043	The government wants to ensure the safety of the Danes, which is why we need a strong defence so that we, together with our allies, can maintain a secure and free Denmark. The defence must be strengthened, including for greater robustness and perseverance. It is clear from the defence settlement that the conciliation parties, including the Liberal Alliance, agree that military service is maintained in all three defenses, but that it is adapted to the current needs of the defence. The conciliation parties also agree that military service in defence will be maintained until 2020. The Government does not therefore intend to make a proposal to abolish military service. The government is for military service, as agreed with the parties behind the applicable defence agreement in the existing defence settlement 2013-2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152139	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152140	That answer is then noted. That then leads me to the next question. It is clear here that some parties have succeeded in convincing other parties that they have to change course. And then I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister's general position about politicians changing course when, after an election, they no longer have the same attitude as the one they had before an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152216	I think it can only be said in general terms that when more parties have to come together in cooperation, it is a question of interests and wills meeting and finding a common ground, and in this case military service has ended up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152235	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152236	It is just to make it clear that the Minister is also of the opinion that this is the same as the President of the Liberal Alliance taking a new position.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152248	I don't want to deal with that at all. I can only say that when you sit and negotiate a common government basis between three parties, it is just as when the author's party entered into a government programme together with the Radical Left and the SF, where you could see that there were also new positions adopted by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152310	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152312	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152314	We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 5 to the Minister for Employment, and the questioner is Mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152323	Thank you, President. I would like to follow on from the Minister's reply to Question No. 521 ask: Does the Minister consider that it is problematic that the health professional group has far greater sickness absence than other professional groups?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152340	Thank you for the question. I regret that my voice is a little rusty, but I am trying to get through the answer anyway. Let me start by making it clear that yes, it is problematic with a high absence from illness. High absenteeism means less time for the core task, which is why it is also important that sick leave is kept down. It is the responsibility of employers to ensure a healthy and safe working environment. In the health sector, therefore, it will be the regions and municipalities responsible for the absence of sickness. In practice, there are also large differences between municipalities and regions. I can, for example. state that the absence of sick people in the North Jutland Region is 20%. lower than in Region Sjælland. Region Sjælland can therefore benefit from inspiration in e.g. Region Nordjylland. The government wants an efficient public sector with a focus on the core task. This also applies, of course, to health. As the questioner knows, as Minister for Employment, I have the opportunity to focus on the fact that health and safety rules provide a good framework for preventing health and safety problems and that sickness benefits legislation helps to maintain more people in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152443	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152445	Thank you for your answer. That doesn't say much. Because when you look at the answer given by the Ministry to question 521, it is public administration and education and health that is boning out with a very, very high figure compared to other groups in the labour market. In this context, we have also had something on television about health and care for the elderly, where they lack staff. We also know that there are many who suffer from depression and stress in these areas, and thus they report themselves ill. What you can see from this is of course also that we need to have an assessment of whether the working environment is well enough • whether too much has been cut away by the staff who will help solve the tasks. Because it is not just in hospitals, but it is also in municipal offices, in social services, SOSU assistants and in the general public administration that there is a very high level of absenteeism. And it may be that you feel that you cannot achieve everything because there is a shortage of staff. We saw, for example. an example on television. It was a nursing home where there was only one night shift to take care of everyone, and the elderly did not get the care they needed. Then you can easily get the situation that you feel like I can't handle this, and then you turn yourself in sick. And then there's the problem. So this is a disease that's longer than 14 days. It is not they who are sick for 1 day or 2 days, but it is longer. That is what we need to look at. We can see that there is an increase in the psychological working environment where more and more people are becoming ill. There, of course, we must make a joint effort to ensure that we bring it back down again. I just think, when you look at these numbers, that they are the expression that this is at least an area that we need to look through so that we can figure out what is really the reason why there are so many diseases. In particular, groups from 25 to 45 years of age have the greatest sickness absence over 14 days. So the question is whether we should not look together at what is at the root of their sick absence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152703	Thank you for that follow-up question. I have allowed myself to be and it is certainly not to be polemical to answer what I am asked about, that is, that it is problematic that occupational groups in health have a much greater sickness absence than other occupational groups. And I started by saying: yes, I think that is problematic. I therefore agree with the questioner on this point. That is why it also requires political attention. I would very much like to look deeper into the figures, and I think I would also make good sense to do so, but I would also like to stress that the main responsibility for this field, if you may say so, lies with regions and municipalities. This does not mean that there can be no good reason to look at it and look at what lies behind the figures. I would also just like to say that there is a great difference between the regions. Now I just chose to mention the Region of North Jutland and it is not because the questioner comes from there and in general we can see that there is a lower sickness absence measured against the Region of Zealand. And that's why there's a lot of elements in this. However, I would like to make a commitment to look deeper into the figures. I think that makes sense, because it is problematic if people have a large absence from the sick, it goes without saying, and it also affects the warm hands of the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152813	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152815	Thank you. I take that as an undertaking from the Minister that we should have these figures tormented somewhat more so that we can better see where the problems lie. Are there any regions that particularly fall apart in relation to others, and what do they do where they may not have such a high level of absenteeism? Of course, this sickness absence also has something to do with how satisfied you are with your work and whether you have good working conditions, because the more sick absence there is, of course, the greater the burden on colleagues who have to do the job.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152857	I agree with that one hundred per cent, and that is also why, when we look at other figures, we see that there is a big difference in sickness absence from one part of the country to another. There may be different explanations for this, but of course it deserves political attention, because it is clear that if you have a very high sickness absence, your productivity will be affected. That goes without saying. So one thing is to look at how much money you give, but another is to make sure that the money you so give is also active, rather than people being sick. It is both a human strain on those affected by disease, even if it is longer-lasting, but it also affects the core services provided in the public sector. So I am quite prepared that we can go into more detail about this, and I will of course also take the initiative to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152943	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130152944	When you look at the numbers in Question No. 521, it is of course striking that one particular area falls so much in relation to some of the other areas, and if you look at what is closest, you see that the figures for trade and transport for the 30-34-year-olds are 5,500, while it is 18,800 in public administration and health. It is so striking that there are such great fluctuations exactly in that area, and that is also why I think it is important to have the question raised so that we can see what is happening in this area, that is why we have this large absence of sickness of more than 14 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153034	I do not think I can be more accommodating than saying that, firstly, it is problematic and, secondly, that I will arrange for us to look at the figures, what I shall discuss with the questioner afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153045	Thank you. Then we move on to Question 6 with the same wording, namely a question to the Minister for Employment, and the questioner is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153057	Thank you, President. I'm sorry, I was about to interrupt the President, but that won't happen again, at least today. What does the Minister intend to do to reduce the absence of sickness for the health professionals?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153113	As I also answered question S 254, I am concerned that there should be a good working environment and that sick leave should be kept to a low level. This applies to all jobs. In the field of health, it is primarily the regions and, as I said earlier, the municipalities, as employers, who are responsible for ensuring low absenteeism. The Factory Inspectorate oversees that employers are fulfilling their responsibilities and that the efforts are targeted at those companies with the biggest health and safety problems. I think that also makes sense and makes sense. In the sickness benefit system, the focus is on preventing long-term illness and supporting the retention of sick people on the labour market. In other words, as Minister for Employment, I must provide the framework to prevent health and safety problems and to ensure that it is possible to maintain the link between the sick and the labour market. After all, the rules have been agreed in both areas with a broad circle of parties, including the Danish People's Party. However, as I had the opportunity to answer the questioner on the previous question, there may be good reason to look at the figures and the figures on which they are based, both in relation to regions, but also for that matter municipalities. It is a well-known fact that there is also a huge difference between municipalities in how much absenteeism there is, and I think this requires a political discussion and, above all, a public discussion about what might be the basis for it. And I would certainly like to put myself at the forefront of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153236	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153238	Thank you. I agree with the Minister that we should look at what is at the root of this. Because when you look at it, you can of course get a suspicion in some areas and in some places that it is that there is too little staff to carry out tasks that make people psychologically affected, that they get a little stress, that they get a little depression, because they feel they cannot cope with the workload they have. Then they join the sick, and in this way their colleagues will suffer, who will then also have to carry out their duties. Because it does not seem that the municipalities, the regions or the state are then hiring some more to carry out the tasks. That is probably where we have to go and see whether staff have been cut too hard to carry out the tasks, or whether we have put too much administrative burden on staff by the state or local authorities, so that they really do not have time to carry out the tasks they have to do. It may well be that the staff feel that they are in a jam because they have a lot of papers to fill out so they do not have time to take care of the real tasks they have to perform. I really think that this is something we should look at, namely whether it is something of the kind that causes them to report sick, that they cannot do the tasks and then feel they have to have a break. I hope the Minister agrees that this is also one of the things that needs to be looked at in connection with this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153410	Well, I fully agree with many of the points put forward by the questioner, and I certainly take the Danish People's Party at its word in relation to looking at the bureaucracy that may have been built up by the state in relation to the municipalities. Most often it is an expression of the fact that there have been many well-meaning politicians here at Christiansborg. There have been broad political agreements where everything has been agreed in detail, and then it may be translated into a completely wrong exercise when it comes out and meets reality. That is why we must also be self-critical. There are many broad reconciliations in the field of employment, where there have been different political views, but perhaps a degree of detail has also been arrived at which deserves to be analysed whether this can be done in a different way. That is where I think we have a political task. Then the municipalities and regions certainly also have a job in being employers and ensuring that the focus is also on good management. We know, of course, that good management also helps to ensure that there is a greater employee satisfaction and thus also a lower sickness absence. I therefore believe that this is an area which must also be given more political attention, including in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153509	I really think it sounds good, and I see it as an undertaking from the Minister that we should dive into the problems in this area. It could also be that there are some other areas in some other sectors where we might have to look at illness at the same time. Because it is not the case that there is no disease in the other sectors at all. It's just here where it sounds so violent. So I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that we should go into detail on this and continue to look at what we can do so that staff are less stressed and less ill. I see it as an undertaking from the Minister that we should have looked at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153552	I can fully confirm that commitment. And I will also take the initiative to discuss with the questioner how we get deeper into these figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153601	Does the questioner have any further questions? No). Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted for today's efforts. There are still two questions to the Minister for Employment and Question No. 7 is from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153617	Thank you. Does the Minister agree with the Chairman of the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Anders Samuelsen, in that the cash aid for adults (persons over 30 years of age) should be reduced to the SU level (cash and education aid for young people) and does the government intend to make a proposal to that effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153634	Thank you for a very specific question to which I can say the following: No, I do not agree with the idea that adult cash assistance should be reduced to SU level. If you have the opportunity to read the government bill, and I would strongly recommend that everyone in Denmark do so, you will see that there are no plans to reduce adult rates in the field of cash benefits. The government, on the other hand, has a strong focus on the fact that much more people are going into employment and fewer on public support. We have set ourselves a goal to increase employment by between 55 000 and 60 000 people, and we have a goal of prosperity to increase prosperity by 80 billion. kr. Towards 2025. We're gonna put it down, among other things. to strengthen the incentive to work by facilitating tax relief at the bottom and by also giving a job premium to the long-term unemployed. I think this is both a real and ambitious agenda and some initiatives that help to move Denmark in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153724	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153726	Then I would like to begin by welcoming the Minister in the field of employment. I had a very good working relationship with the former Minister for Employment, Jørgen Neergaard Larsen, and I look forward to having that with the current Minister for Employment. I am sure we will disagree on many things, but I wonder if there are some things on which we can agree. I would say that when I ask about this, it is because I am a little worried that we have now got the new government with the Liberal Alliance. That particular party has had quite strong and tough positions in the field of employment, and as an opposition politician I therefore also have to find out whether the policy of the Liberal Alliance will fill too much of the government's policy. It is clear that when I have heard Mr. Anders Samuelsen, the current Minister for Foreign Affairs, says that cash aid must be reduced to the SU level, so of course I also have to ask about it. I have seen that it is not in the government base, but it is clear that I can therefore have a concern. Now I hear the Minister say that this is not going to happen. Do I also hear the Minister say that the level we have now will be there in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153838	Thank you for your great concern for the government. It's always nice that somebody has it. Allow me to say that the question time is about answering a specific question, and I have done so. And so I have nothing more to add. If you want to discuss much else, there are good instruments such as consultation or broader issues. But as to whether or not I have anything else to say about this, I can say that no, I haven't.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153900	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153902	Well, I am very concerned about the government, because the last year and a half has been a rather difficult start for the government; so we must look after our colleagues. I would say that we and I know all the tools that are and believe me, we're going to talk a lot. I am going to talk to the current Minister for Employment. But are we where I actually get a guarantee from the Minister for Employment that there will not be a touch on the ceiling on cash benefits, in other words that the benefit we now have is also the benefit we have at the next elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130153937	Thank you for the great interest in the government's life. It's nice, and you always have to be happy about that. I have been asked whether I agree with Anders Samuelsen, the current Minister for Foreign Affairs, and there I have said: No, I do not agree that cash aid for adults should be reduced to SU level. That is also why we have written, as we have, in the government base, precisely what we have of plans instead of, or what else we have highlighted. So that's what I can say. I believe that, if I may say so, we must be very careful to stand and give guarantees as to how the future will develop in many years' time. So I'm not giving any guarantees. I can just say what the government means, and that is what I have said here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154020	Thank you very much for that. I am incredibly happy about that, and I also believe that many of the cash aid recipients who sit out there watching this are incredibly happy. The voters of the Danish People's Party and the Danish People's Party may also be happy, because they have put votes to this with a ceiling on cash aid. So I think there's a lot of people who think this is really good. I would also like to say that this may not be so much a question, but rather a discussion that I will also discuss with the Minister for Employment that we already have a deep disagreement with the current ceiling on cash benefits. Because we believe that this is actually going to push many of the people who are sick and have social problems and who cannot take a job out of their homes. However, we will be discussing this much more in the coming period.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154103	I look forward to that, especially when I see the Social Democrats table a resolution to abolish the ceiling that has been introduced. I have not seen that yet, but I assume that will have to come in a short time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154114	Then we move on to Question 8, which is also for the Minister for Employment. And the questioner is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154123	Does the Minister agree with the former employment rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Joachim B. Olsen, that social dumping is good because it strengthens competitiveness?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154132	Thank you for your question, and thank you again for your concern. Leif Lahn Jensen's side I'm glad. No, I don't agree with Joachim B. Olsen. This is also evident from the very well-known government basis, as I know Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has read that foreign companies must comply with Danish legislation and the Danish rules. And foreign employees must work under the pay and working conditions that apply in Denmark. That is why we also agreed, most recently with the 2017 Finance Act, on the key to ensuring orderly working conditions on the Danish labour market by maintaining the allocation for joint government action to combat social dumping. As politicians, we are responsible for ensuring a reasonable framework for the work of the authorities and the Danish labour market. In Denmark, the social partners are responsible for ensuring wages and working conditions. It provides a well-functioning and therefore also flexible labour market. Therefore, the government prioritizes foreign companies having to comply with Danish rules so that they do not win on unfair competition. We must maintain a well-functioning and flexible labour market for which we have been fighting for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154234	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154235	In fact, I am getting a great deal out of standing here today, because I am told that there is really an edge and that there is a very, very disagreement with that government. It is so good that you can create a basis for government, even if you basically disagree. But I think that is a good thing to get out, especially when you hear that Joachim B. Olsen is actually a prominent politician of the Liberal Alliance. I have heard from several consultations and other meetings with the former Minister for Employment, Jørn Neergaard Larsen, that he has expressed his concerns about social dumping and how important it is for us to maintain proper pay and working conditions at home. Now, of course, it is another government, it is a more liberal government, and that is why I also have to now I have heard the Minister say a little more • to drill a little bit in it. What will this mean in relation to social dumping? Will there still be the fierce struggle to ensure that there are proper working conditions, decent pay conditions out there, as I heard the previous minister say at least. And will it also be made on the agenda in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154331-2	I'm actually listening quite a lot with interest, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says about the experience that Leif Lahn Jensen has acquired when Leif Lahn Jensen was a member of a party that had the power of government. It was a party that also had a black belt in discussing with other parties, and I do not think there is anyone better than the questioner to understand that when you make a government basis, then of course you have to make some compromises that will benefit everyone. So, I can say that there is nothing strange about the fact that we cannot implement everything we are fighting for, and we must also remember that the Finance Act that has been made is also a Finance Act supported by the Liberal Alliance. So I don't think it makes any more sense to stand and botanize what Joachim B. Olsen had to say at some point. But of course the questioner is welcome to do so, and I shall answer it. But I can at least say that I am also concerned about the question of social dumping. I have also been in the past in my ministerial life, when I was Minister for Education and, for that matter, also the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154431-2	So I would say that many people, ordinary employees in many sectors, are gradually seeing their jobs go to cheap labour from Eastern Europe, in other words people who actually have no training. It is people I myself know who are going to find themselves in a situation where they lose their jobs because they are unskilled and where it is really difficult for them to move on in work or education. Then they come out and see some construction work where they can hear that it is people from other countries who may go to other salaries and under other working conditions. That is why I would also like to talk more about that part. Does the Minister recognise that this is a problem, that is, that we have a part of these people who are really perplexed and who see that they are lost in a system where they can see other people coming in and taking their jobs? Does the Minister have a proposal on how we can solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154522	Allow me to answer the question today. If we are to have a longer discussion on social dumping, I think it makes sense that I also have the opportunity to be better prepared for that discussion than only on one issue here. However, I can say overall that, on a day when we have seen the new unemployment figures and employment figures, we can welcome the fact that, according to the figures that have now been published, more people have entered employment and that we have a stagnating unemployment rate compared with the last time we saw the unemployment rate. However, I am fully aware of what I also stated, namely that it is absolutely essential that we do not go in and engage in competition which is unfair. That is why I am going to take an interest in this area, just as I did when I was Minister for Taxation, where we also took initiatives in relation to social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154607	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154608	I would say that I can only have great respect and acknowledge that the Minister actually thinks there is a problem in this area. And I can guarantee that this is not the last time we will be discussing this and that we will also be discussing it where we have a little more time. So thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154624	Well, I'd like to sign for that, too. What I said was that I am certainly aware of the whole question of social dumping. And I know that there is a broad interest in it in the Folketing, which is why we will discuss it voluntarily and involuntarily, so I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154640	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen and the Minister for Employment. And we also want the Minister for Employment to have good health. I understand he's an old handball player. Is that correct? It is part of the new Rules of Procedure. We move on to paragraph 9, and this time the question is to the Minister for Education and Research. The questioner is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154723	Thank you. The question is: what will the Minister do to avoid religious harassment at educational institutions in connection with the use of so-called reflection rooms and pray rooms ^ as it has supposedly happened at UCC Carlsberg?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154743	There must be room for all students in higher education institutions regardless of religious affiliation. No one must be harassed by other groups of students. If that is the case, I have a clear expectation that the management of the institution will intervene and ensure that it does not happen again. At an educational establishment where there are many students with different religious backgrounds, basic respect for religion as such is also important. In relation to the specific case of UCC Campus Carlsberg, which I know only from media coverage, I understand that the management of the UCC is aware of the situation and will follow the use of the relevant prayer and reflection room to ensure that all students wishing to use the room have the opportunity to do so. I have also noted that both the management and the student's advice at Campus Carlsberg consider that this is an isolated event and that there is general satisfaction with the reflection and prayer room. Therefore, at the moment, there is no need for key initiatives to avoid religious harassment, but as I said, I have a very clear expectation that the management of the educational institutions will focus on addressing the specific problems that may arise. On the other hand, I also expect management to be aware of whether there are students who feel harassed and to intervene if that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154906	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130154907	Thank you. We live in a Christian country. This is stated both in the old government base and, fortunately, in the new one too. However, according to an article in Jyllands-Posten and according to some conversations I have had with some students at some educational institutions, there is prayer room around which is a starting point for the Islamic preacher and a social control and harassment of people who are not Muslims and do not behave according to the expectations of a particular group of Muslims. And the question is, of course, whether this should be allowed. I find it really difficult to understand how, at an educational institution that trains primary and secondary school teachers, who are going to work in the Danish primary school and to work in Danish nurseries and kindergartens, you can experience that you have to travel in an environment where Islam has a special position and where there is room, room for you to exercise Islam in these bedrooms and thus exercise social control over the other students. In other words, you give Islam a special status in an environment where you have to train primary school teachers who, after all, should not get used to Islam having special rules of play. Well, Denmark is a Christian country. That's what the government says. And the fact that praying rooms are allowed to exist, and the fact that social control and harassment are even being carried out by them, seems to me to be very, very problematic. I don't see any time from up here, I just want to say, so I have no idea where I am in time. Third Vice-President There are 8 seconds left). Okay. But I do not think it is enough simply to say that the schools must find out for themselves, because there is a widespread anxiety about this. So I think there is a need for the Minister to ask the educational institutions not to create such spaces as can be the starting point for harassment and Islamisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155125	Thank you. If the technology does not work, the President will stand up and indicate that the time is running out. Marie Krarup Yes, thank you for that). Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155134	Now I know that Mrs Marie Krarup is an educated person. I have observed this in several contexts, for which I have great respect, and that is why Mrs Marie Krarup is also aware that when you have to make your prayers, you have to go into your payroll and not let your lips run over in public. The fact that there is a prayer room in a public institution does not mean that I see a problem. That is more, I think, if it is the case that there is harassment from the room in question, and my line is quite clear: the institution in question has an obligation to take action against this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155219	Well, I agree entirely in principle. Of course. But there is just the fact that experience shows that social control comes from the places where Islam can be exercised. We are talking about scarf, we are talking about prayer, we are talking about food and we are talking about a whole series of standards of behaviour. That is why I also believe that we should aim to make our educational institutions sharia-free, that is to say to make them so that they were quite secular in the practice of various acts, that is to say, that Christianity was actually brought through, because Christianity is, after all, a secularisation of public space.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155305	It is certainly an assertion that would be quite controversial if it were to be carried out consistently. I am, in fact, on the team that has nothing against religion in public space, and I think it has led to a great deal of Christianity, too, to try to remove religion from public space. We have, for example. The debate with the crucifix was held in the Italian classrooms, and there was, in the first place, a verdict in the European Court of Human Rights that it was not possible to do so, but it was, happily, changed again. Anyway, where I draw my line is in the harassment behavior. Then I am aware of some of the phenomena highlighted by Mrs Krarup. So we must start from a mix of social control and harassment, and I shall be aware of this in the office that I am now contesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155356	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155358	Well, I am glad about that, but I am not entirely satisfied with it, and of course the Minister can hear that, because I believe that we already have so much experience in this area that we know that where we let Islam play a major role, this social control comes in, and that is to say harassment of those who are not thought to be doing so in the right way. It simply follows. And that's why you might as well take it up and say: Bederum We don't have it at our educational institutions, and especially in places where we have to train people to be teachers in the Danish primary school in a Christian country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155438	But it really comes back to a discussion that Mrs Marie Krarup and I have had for a long time and that is really about whether Islam is in Denmark or not and how Islam should be treated. We have had that discussion and we are not going to finish it, I think. The fact is that I think the institutions are doing well so far, and in a reality that Mrs Krarup describes, we also need to train the institutions to act in this context. I do not believe, at any rate, that central rules can cope with the cultural challenge we are talking about here. That is why I think this exchange is useful, but I also think that, in the light of the cases I have seen and which Mrs Krarup has raised, I must say that the institutions have so far acted correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155524	Thank you very much. We move on to Question 10, which has also been asked by Mrs Krarup to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155532-2	Thank you. What will the Minister do to avoid Islamisation in the educational institutions of the Minister's area and thus help Denmark to remain a Christian country in the long term?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155544	Higher education institutions in Denmark are based on the principle of freedom, democracy and respect for constitutional rights, including freedom of religion. And it is therefore, as was reflected by the previous debate, the responsibility of the managements, that the institutions live up to those principles. The case that has been mentioned in the media about the prayer and reflection room at the UCC, Campus Carlsberg, shows to me that the leaders of the higher education institutions focus on the conflicts that may arise in relation to the different religious starting points of the students. And, as I said, I also have a clear expectation that this is the case. I have the impression that management is aware that higher education institutions play an important role in supporting the fundamental democratic culture of our societies, and so far I do not see a current need for key initiatives in this area. But I also think Mrs Krarup knows that this is not an issue that does not concern me. We may be able to look at it differently, but it is not a question that I do not care about, and that is why I will follow it as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155657	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155658	I am very, very pleased about that, because I think it is necessary to follow it very closely. And I am not entirely satisfied with the answer given by the head of UCC Carlsberg, who I think is suggesting that there is also a fear of touch there. For what is the case, then, is that, in addition to having a prayer room, publications have also been found in the prayer room, which is Hizb ut-Tahir's propaganda material. And if there is something that I think we should prevent, then it is Islamisation, yes, but above all radicalisation. And this is an expression of radicalisation. While getting this material and getting an insight into this situation at UCC Carlsberg, I have been contacted by some young people who have converted to Islam in Denmark because they have been subjected to social pressure at an educational institution where they have not been able to be present without becoming part of Islam because control was so strong. I think this is a very, very unfortunate development which must not be allowed to happen because we must have freedom of religion in Denmark. I believe that we best defend freedom of religion by saying that Sharia cannot be practiced in educational institutions and that they should at least refrain from making a room available for prayer, from which we know that social control comes out. So I am very pleased that the Minister has this concern and will keep an eye on it, but I also think action should be taken behind the words. And I think one could simply say: well, educational institutions just shouldn't have a prayer room.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155850	But I have nothing in principle against prayer room. Well, I understand that sometimes in life you can have a need for reflection to go for yourself, and prayer is not just a Muslim thing. It does not change that we have a common view that social control, pressure of the kind we are talking about here, is unacceptable. That is why the specific institutions must be given authority by the specific heads of institutions. And that is why I say so clearly here in the Chamber with the authority I now have that I want them to do so. I think it is a good thing that Mrs Krarup brings these matters to light and that this description of the situation with the young people comes to light because it only helps to emphasise that the authority at the head of the institutions in question has a duty to prevent that kind of pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155952	Here's the questioner for a new question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130155956	Thank you. I fully agree with that and there are, in fact, some good examples. In the field of high school there has been the same problem, and there is at least a single high school. I do not know, namely Copenhagen's open high school, which has struggled with these problems. And they have simply forbidden prayer room. They have banned collective prayer and put it into the school's order rules. You could call on other educational institutions to do so, namely to say that you have to take that into account, because we cannot have young people being subjected to severe social pressure, which means that they have to change religion in order to be at school at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160043	I just think that the struggle for social vision is the least, because this has many more dimensions than the social vision that exists, we cannot only relate to laws and rules that are centrally laid down from here. It is real and it is taking place out there in places where we had not imagined it 30 years ago. And we have to say and emphasise that. I fully agree that one's places, as one saw with the Christmas tree in Kokkedal etc. I am aware of that. Until then, however, I will insist on the responsibility of the institutions and the responsibility of the management and the authorities in relation to the specific situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160133	The questioner to the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160136	I think it's hard for the individual head of the institution to figure this out. I think there is a fear of touch, and I do not think we are going to make any progress until the Minister takes up his duties, and I would certainly urge him to do so. Then I would say: no, laws and rules are not enough, unfortunately. More needs to be done, because this is really a change in culture. We need to learn to resist this Islamic pressure. We have to, for example. have a better Christian upbringing for children. We need a better primary school, and it's not solved in one day. So, of course, it is a long development that we must support, but one could start by saying to the educational institutions: do not give room to Muslim common prayer, do not give room to the social control that grows out of its presence. But we will have the opportunity to discuss it further, because we will see you in a consultation next week, as I recall.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160228	Here you go to the Minister for Completion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160231	Well, there is no reason to hide the fact that this is a place to touch some things where we, the Danish People's Party and the government, can be followed along a very long way, but where the importance of institutions learning to resist that pressure plays a greater role for the government and where the Danish People's Party immediately has a different attitude, so in reality will have a more central way of doing things. I'm very open to this discussion. It's not something that goes away. It's gonna take a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160302	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The next question, Question 11, is still gone to the Minister for Education and Research, and the questioner is Mrs Mette Reissmann from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160320	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160322	Thank you. First of all, I would like to welcome the new minister if the minister has time. Does the Minister agree with the Chairman of the Liberal Alliance, Anders Samuelsen, that the grant for free research should be increased by 800 million? and does the government intend to make a proposal to this effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160344	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160349	I hope there was no gender discrimination in the lack of confidence that as a man I can do two things at once. However, I am well aware that the Minister's attention must be focused on the questioner. And thank you for the kind welcome I really appreciate. I look forward to working together on an area which we could, in fact, agree on a long way along the road. However, there are, of course, issues like these which are about the level of appropriations and other things where we want the discussions that we have. And if I understand the question correctly, then the questioner refers to a plan put forward by the Liberal Alliance in the first part of 2015. Some things have happened since then. Today we are dealing with the things in the government base that we have agreed and with the agreements that have been reached. An agreement on the Finance Act for 2017 has already been reached. There are, among other things: a broad political agreement, which Mrs Mette Reissmann is also included in, on the allocation of the negotiating reserve in 2017. In the agreement, the parties had a further 143 million priority. kr. For the Free Research Council, the total appropriation for the Free Research Council is almost 1 billion. kr. in 2017. With the agreement on the research reserve and the agreement to abolish the PSO tax, research on climate and the environment is a priority. The government has a very ambitious goal of investing at least 1%. of gross domestic product in public research and development. I look forward as a new minister in this area to engaging in fruitful discussions on how, within this framework, we create value in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160535	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160537	I also look forward to a very good and fruitful cooperation. But it is not a secret that what we are looking at now is a heavily cut research budget, rather, research pool. That is less than half of what it was the last time we reached an agreement on the research reserve. It is quite true, as the Minister says, that a Finance Law Agreement has been concluded for 2017, but unfortunately, the research savings made with the Finance Act in 2016 of approx. 1.3 billion kr., will continue in 2017 with the current Finance Act agreement. In addition, universities are also fighting with a 2% reduction in priority contributions, which will clearly go beyond research. I just think it is remarkable that the appropriations for free research are not being increased precisely with the government base, given that we now had the opportunity to put the pen back on paper, since it is therefore the Deputy Prime Minister's party, which was well enough at the beginning of the year, yet it was very clear that it was important that the appropriations for free research should be increased by 800 million. kr. That is to say, new money. Then I just want to hear again whether the Minister can now confirm that the Liberal Alliance, the Deputy Prime Minister's party, clearly wants to increase the appropriations for free research by the 800 million. kr., which was part of their financial 2025 plan, now is not part of government policy. So the Liberal Alliance has not implemented their policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160725	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160726	I would, in fact, be incredibly reluctant to measure what individual parties may have of demands and wishes in an earlier period. I think that the individual parties themselves must stand by to explain this. What I can, on the other hand, stand for is government policy, and the government's policy is that we need at least 1%. of our gross domestic product on research, and that objective keeps the draft budget. I do not want to go into it, and I do not know either, because I have not been involved in the negotiations in question, so frankly I think with all due respect that Mrs Mette Reissmann must ask the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160816	The questioner for the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160819	I simply ask the Minister to confirm whether the Liberal Alliance has obtained the fingerprints that they clearly wanted with their financial plan, precisely the 2025 plan, at the beginning of the year, when they say they want the 800 million. kr. extra for free research. So what I just asked the Minister was whether the Minister could clearly confirm that they did not get it into the government base. That was the only question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160846	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160849	The Government's objective in the field of research remains unchanged. of gross domestic product. That is what the last government was in favour of, and that is what the current government is in favour of. In addition to that, there has been no supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160905	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160906	In fact, when the Social Democrats and the Radicals were in government together, a whole billion more than the one percent of gross domestic product that the government has now allocated to its government base was set aside. But if the Minister cannot answer my question in the affirmative, can the Minister say whether it would be possible for the Liberal Alliance to have its desire to better distribute free research within the existing financial framework of the research reserve?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160936	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160937	I therefore believe that the questioner will have to clarify to me what she means by better. In political assemblies the better usually means that you get it just as you want it. And this is a discussion which I think should be held elsewhere than right here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130160953	It will not then be in this Question Time that the questioner will have the opportunity to do so. Thank you to the questioner and also to the Minister. There are no more questions for the Minister, but I too should like to congratulate the new minister. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 12, which is for the Minister of Health, and these are questions by Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161016	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161017	Thank you. After all, we had the opportunity to sit together in a conciliation yesterday, but I would also like to offer my warmest congratulations to the health minister, who is one of the best positions to sit in a government. The question is this: does the Minister agree with the chairman of the Liberal Alliance, Anders Samuelsen, that there should be an introduction of user charges into the health service for 3.4 billion? kr. in line with the recommendations of the Welfare Commission, and does the Government intend to make a proposal to that effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161045	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161047	Thank you for the question, and again thank you for the welcome and congratulations in relation to the area. There is no doubt that good healthcare is one of the cornerstones of our welfare society, and we must safeguard and develop it, and we have also shown this with both the 2016 Finance Act and 2017 where we have allocated additional resources to invest in health care. We have also strengthened patent rights and strengthened action against cancer patients with an ambitious cancer plan IV, and we have agreed an action plan for elderly medical patients. These were key issues which we promised the Danes before the elections and which we have carried out after the elections. Because we are not running away from the electoral promises we have made, and this also applies to health, and this also applies to our commitment not to introduce user charges on health. We have chosen not to introduce new user charges on health, and we stand by that. We insist that it should not be the income that determines whether you are getting the best treatment from the doctor, and this is also very clear from the government of the Triple Government. I would also like to stress that the three-clover is united in not wanting to introduce new user charges during this parliamentary term, and this also applies to the general practitioner. That is also a response to the fact that the statements made by the questioner in the past have been very clearly replaced by what is contained in the current government programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161213	That was a reassuring answer, because it was not a small matter that the Welfare Commission was looking for: there was a user charge not only with its own doctor, as the Minister has mentioned here, but also with specialists, with doctors on duty, in emergency rooms and in outpatient care in the hospital, and with hospitalization, something that I cannot take seriously enough away from. So it's nice if there's another one in the pile of camels that the Deputy Prime Minister and his party have had to swallow to join the government. I think that's really nice, and I'm just gonna sign for that. But then I have to say to the Minister that my concern is not quite so, because I have just read the government basis, and there you are saying that you promise that you will not introduce user charges during this parliamentary term. I would say that if we were now so determined that user charges on health are a bad idea and that, like me, we also believe that free and equal access to health is one of the pillars of our society, why do we have such a wording in the government base that we promise not to include it in this? I would ask the Minister to attach a few words to that. Because I don't think I'm the only one feeling a little uneasy about that wording.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161320	Now the Social Democrats have been campaigning for scaremongering in this area for several years and claiming various things about my party, and I can also hear that this is also the case with the new three-clover government, and that this is not the case with what is in the government base. That is why I can only repeat that we have just created a new government base which clearly states that there will be no new user charges in the health sector. That is in stark contrast to what the government of which the questioner himself was a member did, among other things. With the 2013 Finance Act, which introduced additional user charges, among others. in the field of dental care. There is, of course, a firm commitment that no new user fee should be introduced in the health sector, and I think that is an important principle, which, unlike the former S-R-SF government, we do not depart from.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161410	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161411	This isn't the first time you have to hear that song from the Left, and I actually think that soon I can bring it myself if you wake me up in the middle of the night, that is, the fact that there should have been increased user fees to take responsibility for the fact that there is no further payment at the dentists. However, I would just like to start by saying that the Minister can expect a written question from us about a timetable for the roll-back of the reorganisation of the dentist's work if you think it is a user payment. For I have heard the Left say so many times that we must soon expect to have a bill in this Chamber rolling it back. But I will put it in writing, because that is not what we are here for today. Well, I am not here claiming the worst things the Minister says, and the Minister says that I am not dealing with what is in the government base. But that's actually what I'm doing, very, very verbatim. Because it is in the government base that it says that you promise not to introduce user charges into this Why, as I do, do you write it if you think that user charges are basically quite wrong and totally wrong when it comes to the fact that free and equal access is a pillar? Why is this wording written? It is not something I made up, and if I had the government base here, I could read it out literally, but now I have memorized it because it worries me so much. Why is that wording there, Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161522	Here you go, Minister. I just want to remind you that we have 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161524	The wording which says, and which also emphasizes that this government does not want to introduce new user charges on health care, is very clear, and it is without prejudice to the fact that the Social Democrats and the rapporteur, as well as touring on with such a scaremongering campaign in this area, are, of course, also because, unlike the former S-R-SF government, we have no ambition to increase user charges, as this government did in the field of dental care, and I think that is also very clear from the government programme that we have in place. Then it has to be said that there are user charges in the health service today, that is to say around 14 per cent. It is just very unevenly distributed, and that is one of the things that may be a little paradoxical: if you fall on your bike and break your arm, it is free, but at the same time you knock out your front teeth, you have to pay for yourself. There I have at least heard in the past that the Social Democrats have also wondered about the historical differences in the distribution of user charges.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161618	The questioner for the last part.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161619	You will find no quotes from me where I claim there is no objective and good explanation for the user fee there is. These are historical explanations, and we should not argue about this at length, but perhaps we are now at the heart of some of what the Minister has not really wanted to say here today. However, both the Prime Minister, the new Finance Minister and, indeed, the Minister of Health himself have argued in the past that we need an analysis and a more thorough study. I think we can even find a quote from the Minister, in which she talks about the need for a commission to look at user charges widely, but I have still not really been able to get an answer as to why the government base does not either refrain from dealing with user charges or make it clear that it simply does not want to. Why is it that in the government base there is the wording here that during this parliamentary term no user charges will be introduced? Well, what kind of work is it in the drawer about looking at the user fee in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161709	I can of course hear that the scaremongering campaign of the Social Democratic Party continues, and that is why we have written very clearly in the government base that we do not want to introduce a new user fee in this parliamentary term. This is the period for which we have been elected, and I think that is quite reasonable. The former government, the S-R-SF government, where Mrs Astrid Krag among others. It was the pleasure of the Minister of Health himself to introduce additional user charges, among other things. in the tooth area. However, we have no ambition to follow this up, and therefore it is also important to send the message to the Danes that it will not be this government that raises user charges in the health sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161741	Thank you to the questioner. The next question, which is No. 13 is also for the Minister of Health, and this time it is by Yildiz Akdogan of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161753	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161756	Thank you, President. The question is: what does the Minister think about the acute medical shortage in some of the most vulnerable residential areas in the country (in fact as many as 15 out of 25), including Tingbjerg in Copenhagen, and what action will the Minister take to address the urgent problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161815	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161817	Thank you to the questioner for that question. It is the Government's wish that all Danes have access to high quality healthcare. This applies regardless of where you live in the country and whatever is wrong, and it also means that there must be sufficient doctors in all parts of the country. Unfortunately, however, we have to say that it is difficult in some parts of the country to recruit enough doctors, for example. doctors for general practice. This applies both in a number of rural areas, as well as in some of the areas that the questioner points out. That is also why, at the beginning of the year, the former V government set up a medical coverage committee, a committee to provide an overview of the challenges in this area and to come up with proposals on how we can get more doctors to work in the outermost regions or, for example, in the peripheral regions. Socially disadvantaged areas in Denmark. For, of course, in those areas too, citizens must have access to high-quality healthcare, which is why I am also looking forward to receiving the committee's proposals for solutions at the beginning of the new year, and I will look openly and without prejudice at all the good proposals that the committee is putting on the table. One thing is certain: we must ensure better medical coverage so that we can also ensure greater geographical equality in health care. It is a responsibility that the government is ready to lift. That is also why we have launched the work we do in this area and hopefully also want to work together with, among others. The party of the author, but also the other parties in the Parliament to ensure that this is also done.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161947	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130161948	First congratulations to the Minister for her new office, and thank you for the answer. I am aware that a committee has been set up to identify this medical shortage around the country, but I am still a little surprised by the process of this committee. Because first it had to come up with its recommendations at the end of 2016, then it was moved to later this year, and now we have to wait until 2017 and I wonder when it is such a big area. I can inform the Minister for Health that there are over 5,000 people living in Tingbjerg. 5,000 people do not have access to a general practitioner, and I find that deeply, deeply worrying. It is not the case that we should have a society in which your mailing address should decide whether or not you can get to a doctor. After all, young people, older people and people who are busy walking live in Tingbjerg, and it can be difficult to get to the nearest practitioner. That is why, now that this committee has been set up, I should like to hear: when can we expect something concrete to come? How long must it take for the Minister to act?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162106	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162107	Now it's here, among other things. with medical coverage throughout the country, of course not a challenge that has arisen after this government stepped in. It also existed during the reign of the author's party, and that is why I think that the initiatives we have taken with regard to growth throughout the country and the setting up of the Medical Protection Committee show a great deal that we are acting in this area and we await the recommendations that come just before the new year. I have when the questioner then refers to this article and says that there are no doctors at all in Tingbjerg, I also think it is important to point out that it has been made within a radius of 1.5 km. So there may well be doctors whose practice is actually right on the edge of Tingbjerg, just as there are other places in the country where there are significantly longer doctors than this, and therefore it is also important that we get the report from the medical coverage committee. Because there are challenges in some socially disadvantaged areas, but there are also challenges in some rural areas where we are talking about quite different geographical distances.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162203	Thank you. I didn't really get an answer to my question. We are talking about the 15 out of 25 highly socially vulnerable residential areas which do not have a general practitioner, some of them have been waiting for more than a year, among others. Tingbjerg, and that is what has been set up this committee, which has been postponed and postponed, and now it has been a year. What is the Minister's plan of action when this report has been postponed for so long? What will the Minister do if the report does not provide any concrete solutions? Does the Minister have an emergency solution in relation to citizens who, among other things, are: Lives in Tingbjerg, it can also be in Vollsmose? As I said, there are 15 out of 25 districts around the country that do not have access to a general practitioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162255	I can then hear that the Social Democratic Party is obviously not confident that the Practice Doctors' Organisation, the Danish Regions or the many other actors who are part of the medical coverage committee and have to make recommendations come up with something. I have to say that I have a completely different belief that the committee that has been allowed to work on and also to carry out this task will in fact make some very concrete recommendations on how to ensure better medical coverage in the country. And that is important for the government, because there should not be the geographical inequality in health that we are unfortunately seeing in some places today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162326	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162328	Thank you. I do not think this is a question of trusting in the practitioners or not. It is a question of giving people, all citizens of Denmark, an opportunity to get to a doctor. And what is crucial right now is that your postal address can help dictate whether you have access to a doctor or not, and I think that is unfair. And I just want to know what the Minister of Health intends to do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162357	[Sound emission]... and as I started by answering, we also think it is a big problem that there is so much geographical difference, both when it comes to rural problems and when it comes to socially disadvantaged areas, and that is also why we have asked a number of people in the medical coverage committee to make some very concrete recommendations on how we deal with this problem. The prerequisite for solving the problem is, in fact, that we are practical rather than just standing around and saying that we think it is a problem. And that is why we are acting on it and we are going to act as soon as we get the recommendations from the medical coverage committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162428	Thank you. That was the end of Question 13. We will continue with the same team setting up for Question 14, which is also for the Minister for Health from Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162439	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162441	Thank you for that, President. When as many as 15 out of 25 vulnerable residential areas (ghettoes), including in Tingbjerg in Copenhagen, are acutely lacking practitioners, how will the Minister make it more attractive for practitioners to apply to e.g. Tingbjerg?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162458	Thank you for the question. It follows a little along the lines of what we have just discussed, which is why I would like to start by repeating that I and the government are very concerned about ensuring medical coverage for all Danes, no matter where you live, whether you live in the countryside, where there can be a long way between the houses, or you live in the town where you have a little shorter between the houses. I also referred to this in my previous reply, where I said that I have high expectations of the medical coverage committee which will come up with their recommendations at the beginning of January. And I expect some very clear recommendations that can help ensure a robust and stable medical coverage for all Danes. That is also why, as I said before, we will look openly and without prejudice at the whole catalogue of recommendations that come from the committee, including looking at some of the good experiences that have been made elsewhere in recruiting doctors for, among others. socially burdened areas. There are already good examples that can be dealt with, for example. from Aalborg East, where the municipality, the region and a housing company have joined forces to establish an attractive health house, because attractive communities where more doctors work together and also work with other professional groups, for example. municipal health care, physiotherapists and psychologists can also help attract more doctors to e.g. exposed areas. That is why we must be inspired both by the good initiatives taken in various parts of the country, but we also want to look openly at the recommendations that come from the medical services committee so that we can hopefully overcome the lack of coverage that we see, not only in the socially vulnerable residential areas in certain areas, but also in a number of rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162639	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162640	But now it is the case that among 15 out of the 24 socially disadvantaged residential areas, there is an acute shortage of doctors. You can look at what Peter Vedsted from the Department of Public Health, Aarhus University, says. I would like to quote him by reading from an article. He was interviewed by Danmarks Radio. He says: Many people will find that 2-3 km to the doctor does not mean so much, but for people with disabilities, walking difficulties or people who cannot afford the transport, even short distances can mean that they do not get to the doctor. I want to hear something from the minister. Now the Minister repeatedly mentions this committee, and that is also very good. It is a committee that has already been delayed for a year. We have a town where 5,000 people live. The last time they had a doctor was about a year ago. And if you listen to what Professor Peter Vedsted says, namely that it can have a great impact on people with disabilities and difficulties in walking, then I want to hear: is it something that affects the minister and what does the Minister intend to do besides wait for the committee, so how long do these people have to wait before anything concrete happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162802	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162803	The article to which the rapporteur refers also lists that the way it is calculated is from a radius of 1.5 km. I fully agree, also in the quote contained in the article, which the rapporteur read out, namely that having to move over longer distances for some does not have much importance, but for others it may be for chronic patients, and it may be patients who are difficult to walk or disabled people it may be of great importance. But I must also point out that this is not only true in socially disadvantaged areas. We also have rural areas where there is a very long way to go to the general practitioner. That is why the government is concerned about securing medical coverage throughout the country, not just in the socially disadvantaged areas. Because we want to put an end to the geographical inequality inherent in health. That is also why we think it is important that we look at this together and take in all the recommendations that come from the Medical Protection Committee, instead of thinking that there is one solution that solves the whole problem we have with the lack of recruitment to certain areas in different parts of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162903	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130162904	But it does not make the problem any less so that it also affects rural areas. I just take note of the fact that there are neighbourhoods where there are many people with a socially disadvantaged background and where it can be quite difficult to get to the doctor. It is about people with difficulty walking, older people, children, newborn children who might benefit from coming to the doctor. But their postal address makes it difficult for them. So this isn't really just a question of some quick solution. It is just a question of finding a concrete solution. That is why I should like to hear: in addition to this committee, what does the Minister think about making it more attractive for doctors to go to some of the districts where it can be difficult to have a general practitioner? Is that something the Minister intends to do about?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163000	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163001	As I said in my answer both to the last question and to this question, we will look openly and without prejudice at the recommendations made by the Committee on Medical Protection. The questioner's party had four years to solve some of these problems, if that was what they wanted. That is why we are going to wait until January when the recommendations come, because it is important that you do not just think that this is such a snapshot solution. A number of initiatives have to be taken, and this is also being pointed out by various actors. Now I gave the example of Aalborg East, where one has gone together to solve it, creating attractive environments for which one can also recruit doctors. Other elements can also be looked at. However, I would like to see the overall recommendations of the Medical Protection Committee before we determine what we need to do to ensure that we do away with the geographical inequality in relation to access to doctors in various parts of the country today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163055	Thank you. This isn't about which government to do what and when. It is about trying to create the opportunities that are best for the Danes out there, no matter what postal address they may have. That is why I am surprised that the Minister does not actually provide any answers, but is returning it to the previous government. It's already been a year. The committee has been delayed. And there's a doctor missing in Tingbjerg right now. 5,000 people are missing a general practitioner. That is why I ask the Minister: in addition to the committee, how does the Minister feel about making it more attractive for doctors to apply, among other things? the vulnerable residential areas? Tingbjerg is one of the places that urgently needs a doctor. It may also be in rural areas. Does the Minister himself have any initiatives to make these areas more attractive, so that all Danes have the opportunity to come to a general practitioner?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163145	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163146	I have already mentioned a few examples of how, among other things, we can do this. in Aalborg East has been working on these issues. However, this is also included in the terms of reference of the Committee on Medical Protection, which is by no means delayed for a year, as the rapporteur keeps emphasising. They come in January with their recommendations. They have to look at some of these things, which are about how we ensure attractive environments; what sort of mechanisms you have to touch, including when it comes to remuneration and other things that the questioner also asks about. In this respect, I think it is essential that we wait for the overall recommendation of the committee before deciding what specific initiatives we are going to pursue in order to ensure good medical coverage throughout the country, whether in rural areas or in some of the socially vulnerable areas on which the questioner has had a great deal of attention in the two previous questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163234	Thank you to the author and also to the Minister for Health, who, like other new ministers, is being congratulated on the new ministerial post. Welcome to the collaboration also in this field. Then we have to go to the next question, which is for a whole new minister. Indeed, we have a minister for public innovation. That is a question raised by Mr. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163255	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163300	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister agrees with the President of the Liberal Alliance, Anders Samuelsen, that a productivity improvement in the public sector should be achieved at 10%. For seven years, in the state, regions and municipalities,1and will the government make proposals to this effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163319	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163321	Thank you to the questioner for that question. We in the government are very concerned that we spend Danes money efficiently and with care. It requires strict expenditure management, efficient operation of all public institutions and, of course, not least a strong focus on core tasks. This is also why the government, together with the National Association of Municipalities, has launched a joint multi-annual modernisation and efficiency programme. Among other things, it has to be done. helping to improve the opportunities for municipalities to solve their tasks more effectively through a wide range of different initiatives, including: by focusing on removing red tape and registrations. The joint programme must release 1 billion. kr. a year, of which 0.5 billion. kr. is a broad priority in the public sector, and the government will also present a programme for public sector renewal, as is also indicated by our government base. This will provide the framework for the government's work to develop and streamline the public sector, so that, of course, we ensure that we get as much welfare as possible for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163428	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163430	Thank you. I have also noted that there is talk in the government base of a 3% public growth rate, so some of my question has been answered that way since it was asked. I have also heard ministers talk in the past about the ambition that the public sector should drive further on the gallon. But I and a large number of the people I talk to translate it into a real desire that the public sector should be smaller and thus provide less service. In my world, it is quite right to want a smaller public sector. That is not what I want, but it is okay to want a smaller public sector, but then I think it should be said. I am not very enthusiastic about inventing positive words to cover up real deterioration. That is why I would like to ask whether there is a 0.3% growth rate. In the view of the Minister, public budgets will ensure a positive development in our welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163542	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163544	Perhaps I could first recommend the questioner to expand the horizon of people who are being talked to in order perhaps to get a slightly more nuanced picture of what is actually in the government base, rather than making his own little interpretation of it. We have quite clearly said that we need to strengthen the common core welfare, but at the same time there is a bottom-up task, and I have to say that. This is true of whatever color the government may have. The task is to ensure that we get as much welfare as possible for the money. Whether we're talking 0.3%, 0.4%. or 0.5%, or whatever we should be talking about, it is a basic condition that the public sector at all levels should focus on how we can make things smarter and more efficient, so that we can ensure more welfare for money, better service for citizens and more secure a more accessible and flexible public sector, where we put quality first.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163637	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163640	It is now my opinion that the employees on the floor and floors are getting nauseous hearing about further improvements in efficiency. I think that, for example, if you do... asks the private nurses in our hospitals or helpers in the area of the elderly, who hear about efficiency, then they think: Savings, oh no, no, no more of it. So I would like to ask the Minister: how long does the Minister think it is realistic to continue with, for example? A 2-percent saving in the hospital sector or in the field of education?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163718	I have to correct the questioner first, because we cannot equate efficiency with savings. Efficiency in e.g. After all, the hospital sector is about how to free up resources by, for example, introducing a robotic technology into the hospital system, which allows us to operate much more gently and which allows patients to get home more quickly in a accustomed environment and get back into the labour market. It frees up some resources and helps to ensure a more effective hospital service. It is, if I may repeat myself, a bottom-up task, no matter what color the government may have, to ensure more welfare for the tax dollars. This is also one of the concerns of this government, and that is why we have said in the government base that we are going to present a renewal programme for the whole public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163804	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163806	I will then wait and see what this renewal programme really contains and whether a word such as the renewal programme again really conceals the deterioration in our common welfare. I could have it suspected of doing that. How long does the Minister think it realistic to continue with these annual percentage savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163829	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163832	I don't know anything about any percentage savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163838	Thank you to the author, and thank you to the Minister, who is also being welcomed in this Chamber with the new title and content of the ministerial work. Then we go to Question 16, which is for the tax minister, and that is what Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163857	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163859	Thank you, Madam President. May I first congratulate you on your reappointment. So the question is: does the Minister agree with the President of the Liberal Alliance, Anders Samuelsen, that corporation tax should be reduced to 12.5 per cent, and does the Government intend to make a proposal on this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163916	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130163917	Thank you for your congratulations. After all, the government's aim is to ensure that our companies have a good framework, that Denmark must be an attractive place to work and invest and to create jobs. It is also important for us that for the individual it is something to be rewarded for and appreciated for. It is because a solid economy and a stable labour market are the pillars of our prosperity and common welfare. A high level of corporate taxation could, for example, be achieved. be a high corporation tax, which is asked to involve fewer investments and less capital in the form of new machinery, new technology, innovative products, etc., and this affects the ordinary employee through lower wages and a more uncertain future. With that I am trying to say that the premise that some people are putting in I am not saying that the questioner is doing so, that lower corporation tax ends up in the pockets of business owners, I do not agree with that. It may at least as well go to investing in new machines, developing new jobs and higher salaries for employees. In view of this, I share the ambition of the Liberal Alliance to reduce the tax burden on our business. It is simply because it will be good for Denmark because it will create growth and good well-paid jobs. It can then be done in many ways. If you choose to reduce corporate tax, as is asked in the question, from the 22 per cent that we end up with to 12.5%, it will take 10 billion. kr. annual after retreat and behavior. That's a big amount. And such an isolated reduction would also cause some other problems with the symmetry of the tax system. It will make it attractive to think of putting money into companies in order to draw them out to a low tax rate. So there are some symmetry problems. It's one thing. Then there is the great challenge: where to find the funding. So, in this light, I would not deny that the government will look at corporate tax and I understand the Liberal Alliance's desire to lower it, but, as I said, funding must be provided for it, and precisely that proposal does not form part of the government base. But that does not mean that you will not be looking at corporate tax if you have to find the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164148	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164149	Thank you. I'm glad I got to say congratulations. I can't say a hundred percent thanks for the answer. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to follow up. Directly taken from the website of the Liberal Alliance, I can say that Mr. Anders Samuelsen has proposed 12.5 per cent. Actually it is 11 per cent, and therefore it may also be more expensive because he has subsequently talked about a halving. What I'd like to ask you is whether the Minister of Taxation is aware that Mr. Anders Samuelsen in the government base has brought this up as a theme and said it is important. I don't know if it's an ultimate requirement, but once you've written it, I guess it's a requirement you've taken along. Even though the tax minister says he doesn't want to reject corporate tax exemptions, isn't that the main focus of attention? As the Minister of Taxation notes, it is difficult to find funding for that particular issue. Is that part of the government base? Has it been brought up as an ultimate requirement? And can you see that there is coherence in things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164255	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164257	It is my impression that the ultimate demands have been tried, and the governing parties are united in agreeing to move away from them. What has happened during the creation of the government base at Marienborg, unfortunately, I cannot explain, as I have not been present at Marienborg. What I can say is that the Liberal Alliance in my optics may well have an ambition, as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen explains, but if it is to be implemented, then the funding needs to be found. I can't rule that out, but it's a pretty big amount. So, as I understand this, it's the long-term goal and ambition of the Liberal Alliance to do this. But that is not the government's specific policy at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164337	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164339	So that is to say, the tax minister does not agree with his new colleague in the government, who has now become Foreign Minister and who has said in the past that it should be 12.5 per cent, and then there should be a halving, that is, down to 11 per cent.? And has the Secretary of State ever heard where the Liberal Alliance will find the billions? Because we have had an exercise in reducing taxes and taxes on cars, and there is no evidence that this has a positive effect on the state accounts, because you cannot know exactly how many cars are being sold. So maybe it's money right out of the box. Does the Minister for Taxation have any good proposals at all to say whether reducing corporation tax will make a profit in the state budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164433	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164435	It will attract foreign investment in Denmark, and it will encourage companies to take and invest more when improving their framework conditions, for example. lowers corporate tax, and I understand that the Liberal Alliance wants it. I would like to see a significantly lower corporation tax, but that only requires some funding. As I recall, the proposal is funded at the level of the Liberal Alliance, which the Ministry of Finance has also calculated, and that is the plan of the Liberal Alliance and not the plan of the government. What is the government's plan is the government's basis. In the government base, one can imagine looking at corporation tax, but it is not explicitly written in. What you can be absolutely sure of is that the government will present funding for the improvements to the framework for Danish companies that we are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164525	Thank you. In other words, what Mr. Anders Samuelsen has proposed a claim that has not been documented, that is to say that the state can get more money, by reducing corporation tax, because it is not possible to prove whether there will be as much investment as it is. However, I understand that the government might rather give tax relief at the top of the personal tax rather than tax relief, and I would therefore like to ask: is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164554	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164556	The 10 billion. kr., as I have explained that it will cost, is the way in which the Treasury and Ministry of Finance calculate, and these are the calculation methods used by the government, and what is stated in the government's constitution, that you want to lower both at the bottom of it, as far as I remember, first and at the top, we are of course on the goal. But the creation of a common government basis does not, of course, prevent parties in the government, which are not the same parties who think the same thing, from thinking something more than what is in the government basis. And that is how I understand that the Liberal Alliance in this area goes beyond what is in the government base, and I think that is fine. It would be boring if we all thought the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164641	Thank you to the questioner. There's one more question for the tax minister... that's question 17... and it's asked by Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164652	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164654	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that the relocation of state jobs compensates for the geographical distortion which the government's top tax relief and, for that matter, the increased retirement age, cuts in the child's cheque and the introduction of the ceiling on cash benefits are helping to reinforce?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164714	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164716	Thank you. The question relates in part to the 2025 plan put forward by the government in August, but, after the question was asked, there has not been a parliamentary election, but a new government has been formed that will present a new 2025 plan, and so my answer is based on the ambitions that the government has just presented in the new government basis. The government has an ambition to make the whole of Denmark a richer country and thus ensure growth, which benefits all citizens, no matter where they live. In order to ensure economic progress and jobs, it is necessary to address a number of challenges facing Denmark, among others. by ensuring that there is a sufficient incentive to work, and that is why, as part of a new 2025 plan, we will present a job reform that contributes significantly to increasing labour supply. At the same time, we want to ensure that there are good conditions for creating jobs and developing all parts of the country. With a better balance sheet it has already been decided to relocate an historically large number of jobs from the metropolitan area. The relocation will mean that there will be more jobs in the province, I will not now call it the province, but the rest of Denmark, and thereby help to create growth in the outermost regions. Based on that experience, in 2018, the government will present proposals for further relocation of state jobs. The government will therefore work to ensure growth throughout Denmark, where all areas, including the outermost regions, are given part of the cake, and therefore I simply do not agree with the premise on which the question is based. The government's desire for relocation should not be seen as a compensatory measure in relation to other things such as the ceiling on cash benefits and other things, but it should be seen as an expression of the government's desire to create growth and development throughout the country. We believe that it has political value for the state that the state is present throughout the country and not only primarily in the metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164911	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130164913	Thank you. You can always see that it is an official who has written the speech paper when there are two North Jutlanders and speeches, and North Jutland is then referred to as the province. I am well aware that there has been a new government and a new government basis, but I still have to start from some of the ideas which the Minister's own party has now aired and some of the things that are already under way. In fact, I think it was well done that the previous government, in other words the Left Government, relocated jobs. The process may not have been so fine, and it has cost something more and so on, but the thought in it is really good. The problem is simply to say that it is to raise some rural areas, for example. In parts of Jutland, etc., a change of priority contribution is introduced at the same time. It is then called something else, but the consequences for the municipalities are the same. They are given new jobs with the relocation of state jobs on the one hand, but on the other hand they say that they must make savings that cost jobs in municipalities and in welfare systems etc. On top of that, you implement a cash aid ceiling that has a geographical imbalance, and you will also cut the children's cheques by the minister also has a geographical imbalance; we have discussed this in several consultations and you will do a number of measures which we know will be the hardest hit in rural municipalities in large parts of Jutland, Funen, South Zealand etc. and which, what should you say, help to make Denmark break over. This is, of course, the opposite of what the Left Government has just said was the purpose of the relocation of state jobs, which I would again like to commend to you, which should counteract that effect. So summing up I can say that, on the one hand, 3,900 state jobs are relocated with the intention of making Denmark more united, but, on the other hand, you have all the many other policies that make Denmark more divided. It has a larger social battle side and it becomes geographically more crooked. Because we have the numbers, and we can see it in black and white.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165134	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165136	The premise being put down on the question is that the government is carrying out some things that are geographically skewed and socially skewed, and then doing some other things to try to correct it. But that premise cannot be drawn down on the government's policy. When we relocate state jobs, it is, of course, in order to keep our hands on growth and on the basis of a political desire for the state to be present throughout the country. And we are not sitting in the government looking at where we have now moved x number of jobs, versus how the cash aid ceiling will hit. What we are looking at is whether there is overall balance in things, and I have to say that in my view there is, and this should also be reflected in the figures we can see in growth outside the metropolitan area. There is, of course, the fact that we in the government base are proposing to do some additional things, both in terms of relocation and in terms of ensuring that Denmark is in balance geographically as well as socially.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165232	If we now start from the new government base, which is estimated to cost 14 000 jobs, and the fact that, in addition, there will be 22 000 fewer jobs than what needed to have an unchanged level of service, then it can be said that this is another measure taken by the government in relation to something that costs jobs. I know that the government may have the view that public jobs are not worth the same as private jobs, but for me, and for SF to see, a job is a job, and if it is the educator who loses his job, it can do just as much harm and be as expensive for the family as if it is in a private company. Finally, the Minister says that I cannot put out the premise that I cannot set up that framework, but if Denmark is to be better connected, the Minister must still acknowledge that at least in the short run Denmark will be more distorted by the policies being implemented. For these numbers, we can see. We can see that it is geographically biased in relation to pensions, in relation to children's cheques, in relation to the ceiling on cash benefits, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165357	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165359	But then there are other things that move in the opposite direction. In other words, the previous government's job premium, which hopefully will also be the current government's job premium, is then drawing in the opposite direction. The reliefs put forward by the previous government are given at the bottom and which are also reflected in the government's basis of government in the opposite direction. That is why you can pull out a few elements, but I think you should look at the whole. And what the previous government and the current government as a whole want is to ensure growth and jobs throughout Denmark. This reflects our policy and I believe it is fully balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165438	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165440	But I also believe that it is precisely time to look at the whole of government policy, which is why it might also be very relevant to ask a rather comprehensive question, but perhaps a question which will make it a little clearer what we are talking about: if you look at the whole government, both the things initiated by the V government, but also what the new government wants, what will it cost of jobs, for example. for a five-year period, in the short term? And then you can see whether it's connected or not. It could be profitable. We are not getting an answer to that today, but thank you for the Minister's answer to this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165515	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165517	Thank you. Yes, but it is true that if you have public growth that is low, then there is less money in the public sector. Then my colleague, who was sitting next to me and answering questions earlier, may be able to get the public sector to drive further on the gallon, and we must do so. But it could also be that if we slim down the public sector and if we implement a modern cash aid ceiling, it would lead to the cash benefit recipient getting into work or to the creation of some private jobs instead. So I think that we should not just look at the public versus the private sector. You have to look at developments in general and that is what I want this government to be measured on. And that is also what the impact and success of the government's regional policy must be measured on the basis of.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165605	Thank you both, which then goes on to question 18, which is also a question to the tax minister by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165613	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165615	Thank you, President. Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable for the government, including SKAT, to spend billions of tax dollars on IT suppliers using tax fints and tax havens, and will the Minister use the future EU tax havens to avoid public cooperation with tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165634	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165635	Thank you for the question. Everyone, of course, has to pay the taxes they have to pay. This also applies to the IT suppliers that the State has. And as long as the correct tax is paid, everyone can, as a starting point, bid on the tasks offered by the state, for example. as an IT provider. Then the State, as the contracting entity, that is to say, who wishes to buy something, will assess the tenders and assign the task according to the criteria applicable to the tender in question. Here it is important to maintain that when a potential supplier to the state has ownership structure with group companies that belong abroad, this does not necessarily mean that they do not pay the correct tax. When work on EU blacklisting is expected to be completed by the end of next year, i.e. 2017, we must look at how the list ends up looking and how it can be used to specifically limit the illegal use of tax havens. In general, I recommend suppliers to the state, including the tax administration, to have a high degree of self-regulation and pay particular attention not to operate in tax grey areas. It can save owners and their companies from criticism from politicians or from public opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165807	If the minister needs a glass of water, that's okay. Yes, actually I have). We're just gonna wait. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130165824	Thank you. The last part of the answer sounded so familiar, perhaps because it was copy-pasted from an earlier answer. The Minister can lecture me from here to the apocalypse on the EU Procurement Directive and our own procurement law, etc., the latter I helped negotiate, and I am well aware of the rules that at the moment mean that tax should not be used as a parameter when selecting companies. When we stand here today and I have not written a committee question for which the Minister's officials can inform me of the legal background, it is of course to hear the Minister's opinion on whether it is reasonable and that is something we all want to hear that, having had a huge scandal with the EFI system, we are saying that we must have a proper, effective recovery system that works. So who gets the assignment? It's a company called Netcompany. They've sold 53 percent. of their shares into a fund. That fund is based on Jersey. Then I just ask the Minister whether the Minister cannot see the irony that SKAT's new recovery system, where to collect taxes from those who owe, those who cheat, etc., must be handled by a company that operates and uses Jersey as tax havens. So this is a matter of opinion. I do not need to be lectured on what the law is like, if there is a political majority in favour of it, but can the Minister not see who is almost unbearable irony in that it is a tax havens company or at least a company that has a 53 per cent shareholding that belongs to a capital fund that has been entrusted with the task?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170018	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170021	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen may ask about my views. Companies working with the public authorities must pay particular attention to compliance with the rules, in particular the tax rules, and, if you cooperate with the tax authorities, you must pay special attention to them. That's the way it is. That is the call I have made, and that is my position, but I cannot allow myself to take that position, and I also think it would be unfair to say that because you are owned by some who are located in a particular country, you are not convicted of something, we have no indication that the tax is not paid, so you cannot cooperate with the Danish tax administration. So, apart from the fact that I am not sure that it would be within the rules that apply to tenders, I do not really think that is a reasonable consideration either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170106	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170108	Then I just think that we are looking at differently what it is reasonable to spend taxpayers' money on, that is to say that some people will have a task of 100 million. kr. to deliver the first part of a new recovery system, and Netcompany pays taxes in Denmark, as far as I am aware, but they are owned by a capital fund that uses the most classic tricks and is based in a place that is not really known for anything but to be a tax haven, and which ultimately also scores some of the prizes by placing orders in the order book, among other things. from the Danish state. I just do not think that is fair, and we can change the legislation if we say that we want to work to ensure that there are some new parameters, for example. that tax dollars are not delivered to tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170201	But I do not think it would be fair to cut all companies apart. I fully agree with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that if there is a company that has not paid the tax they are going to and has a tax case, it would be extremely unfortunate that they are working with the tax administration to provide IT or anything else, but I am aware that this is not the case here, so I do not agree with the questioner. Capital funds are a form of ownership that has advantages and disadvantages, but it can also be beneficial to the owners of a company and to the company that is. At any rate, I do not think that this is something that allows Netcompany to be judged as a company out of the contract they have with the tax administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170244	The last part of the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170247	The Minister says that a capital fund is a form of company that can be beneficial to the owners.I agree entirely with that, but whether it is beneficial to taxpayers and taxpayers that we cannot refuse to cooperate with some who are ultimately owned by some who operate from a tax havens is another matter. I don't think it's the beautiful nature of Jersey that lures. My final comment is that I would ask the Minister in writing to explain the current Danish data from Jersey in relation to tax payments.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170330	The minister to finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170332	Of course, we are happy to do so. I have to answer all the questions, but I would like to warn against this by saying that because part of a company that is pear Danish, which has a lot of Danish employees paying tax in Denmark, is owned by some who are legally resident in another country and comply with the law, they must be judged out, and I would warn against that kind of argument, but I fully agree with the questioner, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, that we must ensure that those who work with the tax administration have a high degree of self-justice, and that is my clear appeal to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170411	Thank you to the honourable Member and thank him. the tax minister. We are going to Question 19, which is for the Minister of Education. Welcome to the new Minister of Education and congratulations on the job. The questioner is sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170427	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170431	Thank you. I would also like to start by congratulating the new Minister. Does the Minister make an impression when Ulla Højmark Jensen and Mette Træden Pedersen write in the guide magazine that young people who are assessed as non-educational are experiencing the qualification assessment as a stamping and a defeat that can put them in a marginalised position in relation to their classmates?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170501	Thank you. And thank you for your welcome. Of course it makes the impression that it always does when there are children and young people who are not well enough in our education system. However, the training qualification assessment is not intended as a stamping out of the pupils, but as a tool for early identification of young people who do not have the conditions for carrying out youth education and helping them on the right path. I also note that the chairman of the UU leaders, Mark Jensen, considers that the UPV has got off to a good start without the stigmatisation that many had feared. The assessment of the training readiness of pupils is already in the eighth grade, so the student has time to correct it before the end of the 9th or 10th grade, and this can be done for example. be pupils with many school shifts or pupils who have put themselves in the crowd. The UPV obliges the schools and the UUs to make a determined effort to prepare the student concerned for a youth education programme. The special counselling effort for students who have not been assessed as students in the eighth grade is, after all, a municipal responsibility. However, the pool has supported the effort by allocating 20.8 million. kr. to develop and systematically test specific turbo courses for professionally challenged pupils in the training. I am closely following developments, among others. through a follow-up research programme up to 2020, which reports on developments and interventions undertaken around the country for non-educational pupils.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170633	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170635	Thank you. Unlike me, the Minister has so far taken action against the reform of primary schools. The Minister has said that there was nothing good to say about the reform, and the Minister must therefore be said to be one of Christiansborg's greatest critics of the reform of the primary school, but I am very pleased with the new reform of the primary school, which a very large majority of Parliament is behind. All children must learn, all children must thrive in school and become as good as they can become. And there must be respect for the committed and good work that teachers, educators and school leaders do out there in schools. When it comes to training and when it comes to training, it is important that we get all young people to be equipped professionally and personally for further training to gain a foothold in the labour market and to live a good life. And in education, education guidance is central to those young people who need extra support and guidance. And, of course, I, as well as my party, support the content of the school reform on education and training. It is important that the young person after primary school is assessed ready for education. But I also get worried when we get a lot of feedback from the training counsellors that in many cases the assessment of readiness for training focuses on the shortcomings and shortcomings of the young person, and that what is assessed as non-educational can give rise to a sense of stigmatisation and exclusion among the young person. And I am concerned that this will have a negative impact on young people in the further progress towards education. The word 'non-educational' is problematic, and I do not think we can stamp children and young people in this way. What is the Minister of Education thinking about this, and what does the Minister intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170834	Please send a reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170836	Thank you. Social democracy is, of course, very committed to the reform of primary schools, but that does not mean that the work will stop. That is also what I hear the rapporteur say when he says: we must constantly look at whether we are doing well enough. We have a common interest in fewer pupils leaving primary school without basic knowledge. Then, in this common framework, we have created an UPV, so that in the past we pick up on whether the students have sufficient qualifications to continue in an upper secondary education, and we start with that already in the eighth grade. Even if the way we talk about it is the best way, I think we should discuss it in the future together to see if it can be done in a better way. I think it is good that we have long-range agreements, but I also feel that if there is something we can do better and especially for young people who are at risk of being lost in the system, I am always prepared to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170947	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130170949	Thank you. I would like to sign for the Minister's positive reception, and I fully agree that we must discuss together further steps in relation to primary and secondary education in terms of education readiness. After all, I believe that education in our primary schools is one of the best efforts in the fight to create more equality between people and give all more opportunities in life, and that learning, well-being and education make us socially mobile and is an important effort in the fight to break with the negative social heritage. And one of the main objectives of the reform is to reduce the importance of the social background of pupils. Does the Minister agree that the school should be open and that the students should thrive and be part of the community in terms of learning, well-being, creativity and life quality? And so again: Does the Minister agree that being assessed as non-educational is not a word that belongs to the year 2016, with the knowledge and knowledge we have about how language creates reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171058	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171100	Thank you very much. In relation to the specific language, as I have said, I am always open to discussing whether this is the best way to address it in the circle that has agreed these courses. Having said that, however, the tool is something we have jointly decided, and it therefore serves a very important purpose, namely to know in the past whether pupils need a special effort. It should be the case that the children and young people who are in danger of not learning what they have to learn should be taken up long before the eighth grade, but it is really important that there is a dividing line in the eighth grade, where we look at whether we are doing it well enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171141	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171142	Well, again, I'd like to sign off on the fact that we're discussing these relationships together. Because it must be about how we can best work to ensure that as many people as possible are ready to start training without creating in the process what can be seen as an exclusion, that is to say, what can be perceived as joining a B team. We don't need that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171206	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171208	Well, thank you for the words, and thank you for the positive spirit that the rapporteur is showing today. I think we are actually in complete agreement that this is an important tool to clarify whether there is something professional that needs to be changed or lifted. But whether the word is right and whether that is what needs to be done in the future, we can discuss in the future whether that is the way we want to talk about it or whether we can think of something better.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171241	That was the end of Question 19. We are going to Question 20, which is also for the Minister of Education and also for Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171252	Here you go to the rapporteur for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171255	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that many young people who finish specially organized youth education, also known as STU, are looking for opportunities to move forward in the education system and into the labour market, but are not really able to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171313	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171315	Thank you. It is good to hear that many of the young people who have completed a STU have the will to become active participants in the labour market, and it is fortunately that a young person is not excluded from other education or the labour market because he or she has taken a STU. The 2012 evaluation of STU showed that approx. 6% of the young people who have completed a STU subsequently went on to vocational training, upper secondary education or EGU, and to 37 per cent. were in protected employment or employment under special conditions. The rest are offered on a day-to-day basis under the Service Act, receive special training for adults, are at AVU, in the 10th grade, pre-retirement, retirement or rehabilitation courses, or are not in activity. If, after a STU, a larger proportion of young people are not linked to the labour market or to education, this is due, among other things, to the fact that many people have so great job losses that it is unfortunately not possible for them to operate in education or in the labour market at a sufficiently high level. The municipalities are responsible for the young people who have completed a STU, and the municipalities must therefore take action with measures to bring young people closer to the labour market or education, whether they are internships, courses, mentoring or other. The previous government set up a group of experts for better ways of providing youth education with a particular focus on the provision of services in the transition between primary and upper secondary education, and I look forward to receiving the committee's recommendations, which will come in early 2017, and on that basis the government will come up with a proposal for how more young people will receive youth education and choose education that will lead them further in jobs or education. I also launched an evaluation of the STU. The evaluation will highlight the impact of the municipalities' different ways of organising the training and will be completed by August 2017. When the evaluation is available, I will consider what may be needed to change the training.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171518	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171520	It is very positive that in 2017, at some point after the summer break, we can be ready with some new recommendations. I have also been around the STU, actually from day one, and I was in the Folketing when we adopted the STU, and it entered into force in August 2007. I was also with you as rapporteur when we evaluated in May 2013. I think we have to say that today we have a specially organized youth education which is in many ways a success in education policy. It is a specially organized youth education which gives the right to youth education to young people who have special needs. It may be young people who are less developed. But I also think that we would do well to recognise that the STU has both a strength and some weaknesses. It contains a very, very large, diverse group, and it is very wide. STU is not enough for a great many young people and adults, who may be less developed, but who want to acquire more knowledge to acquire skills, to acquire skills, and to feel that they have learned something and can do something, a certificate of competence, so that they can enter the labour market and get a real job. It could also be a spare job or a flex job. And we simply lack some offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171646	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171648	I fully share the rapporteur's view that the STU is a very good and important training offer for a particular target group. I have also been very committed to the STU and the adjustment of this. It is also true, as the rapporteur says, that this is a very broad target group, and that is one of the things that can be considered when there is an evaluation, i.e. whether it should continue in this way, and whether we could possibly make the offer better together if we change the target group a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171726	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171727	Yes, because it is, I consider, necessary to have some new ideas. For example, it might be a good idea to think more in part-education for this group of citizens. For example, the SOSU helper area could think in sub-elements and train in practical areas of work. It could be in the kitchen, it could be around washing, it could be about social tasks. I could also imagine that within this target group of AMU, i.e. labour market training, we could do courses which could result in the student acquiring a certificate of competence. An idea could also be to look at the STU decree itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171827	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171829	I just want to sign for the very good input on an education that we have a very, very great common interest in going to work best. However, we also have a labour market in Denmark which actually helps to impose restrictions on this group of young people, and neither the rapporteur nor I can do anything about that. It's in second place. But there is no doubt that we need to adjust in terms of education so that we reach this target group as best we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171906	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130171908	Yeah, that's right, and that's how we could make more clues. One track could be aimed at protected employment and another at the ordinary labour market. I am also aware that it is the municipalities that are responsible for the STU on a daily basis, but it is important to hear what the Minister thinks about it. I also think, and I would like to acknowledge this, that the Minister is making some good suggestions as to what we can do in the future. Today, the announcement opens up a number of things, but again something is missing that gives access to further training and employment. With the STU, we must ensure that the individual reaches as far as possible with education and the labour market and thus with regard to living a good and active life. This is about both economics and well-being, because many young people after the STU are actually on training or cash assistance. And here we have a group of citizens who can and will and where, as a society, we have a special responsibility. I think that, in this particular area, it becomes clear to everyone that it is not enough to have something to live on, but that one must also have something to live on for.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172017	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172018	Well, there is no doubt that it can give a lot of people the joy of life if they are able to enter the labour market to some extent. We are in complete agreement on this. I am therefore looking forward to the evaluation of the training and will see if we can do something better with that training at that time. And then, as I was also trying to say a moment ago, if we are going to do this very well for this group, we will also be talking about labour market conditions. And then we will have to talk to some of our good colleagues about whether there should be coherence in the work there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172054	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. We continue with Question 21, which is also for the Minister of Education, and this time the questioner is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172105	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172108	Thank you, President. And a great congratulations also from here to the newly appointed minister. We look forward to good cooperation. My question is: what is the Minister's position on the Children's Council's recommendation to put information on psychological and physical violence on the school schedule, because many children, following the Children's Council's Study, are not aware at all that they are subjected to violence?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172130	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172132	Thank you very much. I fully share the concern of the questioner about the figures from the Children's Council. They're scary. It's scary that 29%. of the children of the 7th grade have been subjected to less severe or severe physical violence in the last 12 months. The study by the Children's Council stresses that there are a number of adults who should provide children and young people with a safe and secure upbringing, but who are unable to fulfil that task, and that is a major problem. The Children's Council also points out that too many children lack knowledge of what is right and wrong when it comes to physical and psychological violence, and that is also why the Children's Council is proposing, as also stated in the question asked, that the rights should be on the school schedule. Yes, education plays a role in the fight against violence, but it cannot stand alone in any way. Schools already have to teach children's rights today. It is part of Common Objectives for several subjects and topics, and with the simplification of Common Objectives from 2015, the perspectives for human rights and, in particular, children's rights have been strengthened and are part of Common Objectives for both social subjects and the mandatory subject of health and sex education and family knowledge. In social sciences, students must, among other things,: teaching about human rights, and human rights are also part of Common Goals in history, as the UN Universal Declaration is part of the mandatory cannon points. It is also clear from the guidance given to the subject that newer rights, such as: The Children's Convention. In health and sex education and family knowledge, children's rights are a recurring theme from the nursery school to the 9th grade, and pupils must be able to discuss prevention and management of abuse with consideration of rights, legislation, communication and conflict management.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172325	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172327	Thank you very much. In other words, children's rights and human rights and such things are good. It's good that the kids get that learning. But the problem here is that for children who live with domestic violence, it is so normal that they do not actually know it is abnormal. And because they don't talk to anyone about it, they just live in this bubble of that kind of normality. This brings me to the next question, because they also point out in this report that the teacher could be the one to whom it would be natural to approach, but that they do not actually do so because the teacher and the teacher also have the obligation to contact the parents. In this way, it will actually be a threat to them. One could say that the teacher could well be the security person who then chose not to go ahead with the information, and there I think there may be some conflicts in relation to parental cooperation and such things. I would like to hear the Minister's thoughts just so freely about it, because immediately it is a good solution that they are pointing to here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172429	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172430	In other words, I think the subject is well illustrated in the common goals that have been set. It is the case that we have quite a number of common goals for the Danish primary school. It is difficult to get involved in the Danish primary school because we have as many concrete goals as we have to meet, so it is a challenge in itself. And then it is also the case that there is a difference in the extent of the problem in different parts of the country, and therefore the way in which this question is dealt with in practice cannot necessarily be exactly the same. I think it is very important that we continue to work on developing teaching materials which can be used in places where the problems are particularly great.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172522	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172523	The children also point out in this report that they do not have confidence and confidence in these professionals, and not only those who are in primary school, I must hurry to say, but also those who are in primary school. Because when they finally confide and exercise that trust, they are actually faced with such a kind of denial, because the person to whom they are addressed does not actually quite believe that what they say is right. And there I need to hear how we are going to get rid of it, because I actually think it is a big problem that those who really should be the officials are actually in such a kind of denial.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172601	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172602	I have the impression that in general there are a great many teachers and educators who take their role of authority very, very seriously, and that there are also a great many of them who are capable of reporting where they experience that there are children living with domestic violence. Sometimes something goes wrong in the system, and there we have to be absolutely sure that it is actually being picked up. So in reality I often experience teachers and educators being good at reporting, but sometimes system errors happen. And that is totally fatal, because children who are abandoned in the home are our crucial responsibility in a welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172649	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172650	Thank you. We spend a lot of time and resources on an early effort. These kids then point out that they're using the school as some kind of Helle, like some kind of sanctuary. And there I could imagine that if the school is a Helle because you dare not come home, then there is a very small basis for a professional learning. Is that a concern that the Minister shares?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172711	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172712	Absolutely, absolutely. When there are children who are subjected to domestic violence, it is quite true that they have really, really hard to learn, and they can be very backward in relation to their peers. So that is a perfectly correct observation. And it's very, very important to pick it up. But having said that, I do not think the answer lies in changing the common objectives of the primary school and in that way putting it further on the school curriculum. I think the answer lies more in the need for us to be better able to intervene in the reports that come from teachers and educators and to take action in time when there are children who are abandoned.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172754	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. We continue to question 22, which is for the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Welcome to, and congratulations on the job. And the question has been asked by Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172810	Here's the questioner for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172812	Thank you. Congratulations on the mail from here, too. The question is: what is the Minister's view that the Road Directorate is planning to remove the bridge guards from e.g. Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge in Frederikssund?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172827	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172830	Thank you for your congratulations and thank you for your question. I understand that there has been some local debate about the original plans of the Road Directorate for remote control of four manned patties, respectively Aggersundbroen, Vilsundbroen, Hadsundbroen and Kronprins Frederiks Bro. The debate has, among other things, been on the agenda. urged the safety of remote control of the bridges. This concern has been listened to by the government and, as the questioner may know, my predecessor last week decided that the Road Directorate should instead set up a 1-year trial scheme on Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge from the year 2020. I support that. By then, an opportunity for crossing Roskilde Fjord through the new high bridge will be established if accidental incidents occur. Of course, it is important that the scheme does not give rise to insecurity, and therefore during the trial period, service and emergency preparedness agreements will be established to replace the work carried out by the current bridge guard scheme in addition to operating the bridge valve. The pilot scheme will be evaluated by the end of 2020 so that we can learn more about whether we should proceed with the plans and include the other passenger bridges in the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172950	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130172952	Thank you. Now I asked the questions before the former minister came up with this clarification, but nevertheless retained the questions, because it is precisely the intention to make an experimental arrangement on Crown Prince Frederik's Bro in Frederikssund. It is the case that the new bridge coming over Roskilde Fjord becomes a pay-off bridge as the only place in Denmark, and that means that where we have said, at least in local politics, that if you do not want to pay to run over the new bridge, you can use the old bridge, it could be a problem if the old bridge has stuck in some way. That is why my question must also be like this: when you are making such an experimental scheme, are you also prepared by the Ministry to cover possibly the cost to the bridge that people will get if they are going to go the other way?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173044	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173045	The expectation is that this will work, but there has been an insecurity, and that is why we are running with an experimental system to begin with. However, we do not expect it to be necessary for road users who would like to cross Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge instead to take the high bridge. We believe it's working. But, of course, we're running the experimental system. But should it happen that it cannot close and open as it should, you will be able to take the high bridge, and then it is right that it costs something. But that is not realistic, and we do not expect it to happen, and that is why we do not have any plans to be able to cover the bridge charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173132	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173133	No, I understand that you don't. When I ask the question, it is perhaps not only for the sake of the money it costs, but also so little from the point of view that it is so obvious that you think the experiment will work and that you can make these bridges work via remote control, via screens. And then my question has to be: do you even know what a bridge guard is doing? Last time I talked to some people, they were out putting up mouse traps because there were mice that went in the wires, and I don't know if you can control per. remote control in here from Copenhagen, or where this computer system now needs to be set up. So you have to ask, what do bridge guards do? Does the Minister really know?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173214	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173215	Yes, bridge guards serve the bridge, including setting up mouse traps. Of course there will be pest control around the bridges in the future too, if necessary, but this is how to raise and lower at the right time we think we can do better and more effectively with this monitoring system. But now we're testing it off, and then we'll see how it goes. If things go well, we roll it out on several bridges, and if things go badly, we stop it again and go back to the old arrangement, also for Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173252	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173253	Thank you. Now this is a new attempt. It was planned to remove the bridge guards on four bridges, the three in North Jutland and the one in Zealand, and now the attempt is made on Zealand. When you try one place, do you expect that experiment to be workable, i.e. that it will be the same conditions, etc., that apply in all the other places? When I ask, it also has something to do with fog conditions and ice conditions and something to do with all the tasks that a bridge guard who sits at a bridge, after all, has to say precisely: Now a ship is coming, is it possible? The wind conditions are the way and the way you're supposed to do things. That is also one of the things a bridge guard is doing, and that is why I am actually concerned about removing the bridge guards.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173334	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173335	At least the expectation is that this can be done. But we'll try now, and then we'll see. I am sure that most of the experience gained with Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge can be transferred directly to the other bridges. It may be, the questioner is right that some conditions are special for Crown Prince Frederik's Bro and do not apply to other bridges. This will then be taken into consideration at that time. But you will have an important experience to go further.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173406	Thank you to the questioner and minister for this question. It is the same team on question 23, which is also a question to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and this is asked by Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173418	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173421	Thank you. The question is: What does the Minister estimate that the savings will continue to be made by removing bridge guards from Denmark's folding bridges, and does the Minister not believe that this will pose a safety risk in relation to emergency vehicles, operating stops, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173433	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173434	Thank you for the question. As I explained in my reply to § 20 question no. 252, it is important for the government that the system of remote control of manned folding bridges does not give rise to insecurity. I also believe that we are responding to this with the solution that we are launching, with a 1-year trial scheme from the year 2020 on Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge. Subsequently, the scheme must be evaluated. Only if the trial period has been completed in a satisfactory and safe manner will we proceed with remote control of the other three bridges. The Road Directorate has stated that if all four bridges are remotely controlled at some point, the total saving potential will be approx. 5 million kr. annual.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173519	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173520	Thank you. Now it's 5 million. kr. Not the big money in a state budget, but peace be with it. Of course, we need to save where we can save. What amazes me a little is whether that saving has also taken into account unintended events. As I understand the press release that came from the Ministry of Transport, there may be accidental incidents, and you will then have an alert where the response time should be maximum. 15 minutes. At least I read that it should be. After all, everything else is going to require that you have a crew on duty somewhere close to the bridge. Otherwise, you don't come down in 15 minutes. And it's gotta cost something, too. What, then, is the price of it or is it expected in the savings you have?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173612	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173613	The savings of 5 million. kr. is the total saving with the recognised costs for the remote control, including for the emergency response that is deemed necessary. 5 million kr. is not much in a state budget, says the questioner. I think it's quite a lot of money. I remember that a few months or years ago our current Prime Minister was scolded because he said: 2,000 kroner. Yeah, what's 5 million? kr.? With a little arithmetic, it's 250 pairs of shoes, it's at least a lot of pairs of shoes, and it's also worth taking with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173652	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173654	I understand that $5 million. kr. should also be taken with and is to take and feel. But what may surprise me is that, as a government, one would very much like to see jobs relocated. Now it can be said that the three bridges there were four originally where you had this plan and would have a saving of 5 million. kr. Now I know that if you come from the other side of Storebælt, you think that Frederikssund is also Copenhagen. Now I'm from here, so I don't mean that. But all the other things being equal, we can say that some jobs are then removed from these outskirts, so that they can be drawn into some centralized places where people have to sit and watch a TV, for a saving of 5 million. kr. I don't understand. So I think it is a little problematic that an attempt will be made, knowing that the bridge, which may be an alternative route, will be a toll bridge where, according to the Minister, at least one will not be prepared to cover the additional cost that people will then get, despite the fact that the toll bridge is located in the same municipality, I would just say. Because it does. This is Frederikssund Municipality we're talking about. I think that is strange, given that the savings are, after all, so relatively small and that you might have found the savings by moving some people sitting in front of a screen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173805	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173807	It's too bad when you get to say something wrong. I thought about those 250 shoes. At least I forgot at least a zero, maybe two. We should not have jobs in Denmark by maintaining inefficient jobs. If you can drive things more effectively in the public sector, in municipalities, in regions, in the state, then you must do so in respect of taxpayers' money. We must not drive things less efficiently than we can do to maintain jobs. Because jobs are created by the fact that we have an effective social structure in Denmark for which we do not have to pay unnecessarily. Mrs Pia Adelsteen mentions one consideration here, but the government has another consideration: the efficient operation of the public sector, which benefits taxpayers who pay for the public sector. And it benefits the competitiveness of companies and citizens in Denmark at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173912	Here's the questioner for closure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130173914	To that extent, it may be fine to have that objective, but I am just a little stuttering, because I can see that there may be a problem. If I'm sitting out by the bridge at Frederikssund and it can't clap in a little funny expression... then I have to wait 15 minutes for people to come from somewhere, and after all, they have to be paid to sit on that alert, because they have to. Then they come out to maybe remove ten mice and call an electrician because the mice have gnawed a wire over. And then I can go another way. I just find that problematic, and I do not really know how that response of 5 million. kr. then the citizens will benefit, out there where these patties are, and where the detour can actually be quite long. One thing is that it may be short at Frederikssund, another thing is that if the experiment goes well, as the Minister expects, for example. Also at Hadsund up at Mariager Fjord will remove the bridge guard. And then you have to go all the way around Hobro. It's like 20 kilometers away, I guess.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174011	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174012	With this argument, we can have manual control of all train doors, at all metro stations in Copenhagen or at all S-train doors or all IC3 trains throughout the country. Imagine if something breaks down, there must be someone present who will take care of it immediately, otherwise time will be lost to passengers. But that argument clearly cannot be used. One must have an assessment of whether this is an effective way of using resources in the few cases where there is a mouse that has been around and gnaw a wire over. If this is not an effective way to do it, because it only happens every five years, then it is no use having full operation of a man around 365 days a year for the sake of the mouse that bites the cord once every five years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174101	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. Please stay because the next question is also for the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. That's what Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174113	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174115	Thank you very much: does the Minister continue to trust the Havari Commission's future recommendations following last week's riots, where Berlingske among others. has revealed that the recommendations of the accident inspectors have been removed several times by the management, which could damage the safety of trains and aircraft?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174132	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174133	Thank you for the question. The riots of the last week have probably mainly occurred in the columns of Berlingske. I would like to point out that legal proceedings are pending between the Havari Commission and some of its former staff. More specifically, there are three cases of employment law which have already been dealt with in the city court. The cases are all appealed and must be dealt with in the Østre Landsret. I do not think it would be appropriate for me to make statements that could affect issues that are going to be dealt with in the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174217	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174218	First of all, many thanks to the newly appointed Minister for Transport and, by the way, a great congratulations on his appointment. I have to say that I have walked and feared a little meeting with the new minister, because I think that with the promises made by the Liberal Alliance it is just before the party has lifted its gravity, but in recent days it has been seen that the party has come to an eye with the rest of us and has had to withdraw a lot of promises. So it is nice that we can talk on a realistic basis and on the same basis. This is a serious matter, a very serious matter, and I do not expect the Minister of Transport to take a stand on specific legal cases running in the courts. We have the division of power; that would be completely inappropriate. I think, however, that when you read Berlingske, the Minister must have the opportunity to make a more general statement, because there are several cases of employees employed by society to shout at gunpoint when there is danger. There is a concrete example here of an accident inspector pointing out that there is a need for radar surveillance of airspace in order to prevent aircraft from colliding. The passage, the recommendation to increase safety, has simply been cut out of the report that has been made by the management of the Havari Commission. So a recommendation that could save lives has been cut out. The same applies to an accident inspector who draws attention to the need for fire extinguishers on DSB's trains simply because there have been several fires in IC3 trains, for example, and it has been very fortunate that this has not happened right after driving into the Storebælt tunnel. So there are human lives at stake here. Can the Minister not comment more in principle on whether it is problematic to sax recommendations from people employed by us taxpayers to make recommendations on how to save lives, how to increase safety?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174417	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174418	I can hear that, sir. Rasmus Prehn again refers to Berlingske. I do not think it is Berlingske who should assess the safety of trains and aircraft in Denmark, although of course I recognise Berlingske's right to address the subject, it must be professionals who have a particular insight into the technical situation. By way of example, I can mention the peer review carried out by the European Commission in 2015 on the aviation part of the Havari Commission. The review is basically positive, and among other things. It stresses the ability of the Havari Commission to resolve the problems on an ongoing basis. It is expected that the Havari Commission's railway part will undergo a similar peer review by the European Commission in 2017 and 2018. Finally, the International Aviation Organisation ICAO is expected to conduct an audit of the Havari Commission in 2017-2018 to ensure that the Havari Commission complies with international standards. It is this type of assessment by the professional experts of the European Commission and ICAO that should be taken into account in relation to issues relating to train and aircraft safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174535	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174536	I think it is a little obvious that unfortunately there is a need for even more exercise and training in the transition from polemic debater to responsible minister. In other words, when there is something in Berlingske, the Minister has to deal with it. Then it's no use just answering polemically. Is it the case that the Minister denies that the interpretation of history in Berlingske is correct? And if what it says is
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174624	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174625	I can't deny it because I don't know. I note that it has been in Berlingske. But there are two professional recommendations here. There's someone from an employee who thinks it should be there, and then there's someone from his superior who thinks it shouldn't be there. It is two professional persons who have a disagreement on a professional matter. I assume that this is one of the people who is now bringing an employment case against the Havari commission for dismissal, a case which is being dealt with in the courts and in which it is to be assumed that the dismissed employee may have an interest in putting his former employer in a bad light. It must, of course, be taken seriously, but as I said to Mr. Rasmus Prehn: There are peer review studies by professionally relevant persons and organisations by the Havari Commission. And I have a little more confidence in it than in the things that come out in articles in Berlingske on the basis of an employment law case before the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174737	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174739	So even if a professionally qualified accident inspector points out that it is a good idea with fire-extinguishing equipment and fire alarms on our trains, it is no problem that it gets cut out, so that we do not set up those alarms and set up that fire equipment so that we can safeguard human lives. Is that how the Minister should be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174802	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174804	But I do not have any ability to assess that at this stage, that is, after two days as a minister in the Ministry of Transport. I have not, but I can see that according to Berlingske there has been a disagreement about that passage in the Havari Commission. And that is how there may be disagreement about professional judgements, i.e. whether one professional assessment is better than the other professional assessment. It is naive to think that you can look up in an encyclopedia exactly what is the right professional assessment. That is why we must have confidence that the organisations which control the Danish Havari Commission are able to assess that the conditions are as they should be and not that Mr. Rasmus Prehn can after reading an article in Berlingske, or that I can after 2 days as Transport Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174859	Thank you both. That was the end of Question 24. We go to Question 25, which is also for the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. That's what Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174911	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174914	Thank you very much. What is the Minister's position on introducing a mandatory stop at traffic lights for trucks to avoid, for example: right-wing accidents?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174924	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174926	Since I took office on Monday, I have not adopted a final position on the subject, which is also, as I understand it, a quite complex issue. In the near future, I will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of introducing such a stop to orientation with the Danish Trade Administration and the Road Directorate, which are the two authorities in my area of ministry that have particular knowledge and experience in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174955	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130174957	Thank you very much to the Minister. It is a well-known fact that, unfortunately, there are a great many tragic road accidents in right-wing accidents. I assume the Minister is aware of this and also knew before the Minister was appointed Minister. When there is a professional recommendation from the Havari Commission that the best way to stop these right-wing accidents is to make a mandatory stop obligation. Has the Minister not then asked his official staff what their recommendation is, so that when he has to answer here during Question Time, the Minister can come and say what the professional assessment of what the Havari Commission recommends is? Because then the Minister should make his political attitude on top of that. That is something that means that the sooner we get a political decision, the sooner we can save lives in this important area. It is, of course, a very clear recommendation from the Havari Commission. It might be that the Ministry also had an assessment of this, so that we can stop those fatal accidents as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130175109	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130175111	No, I haven't asked that yet, and even if I had asked, I wouldn't just take the Ministry's advice for good goods, because that's why we have the minister. If you could just ask the officials and then they said what to do, we didn't need ministers. As a minister, I also need to be able to form an impression of this, regardless of what the officials in the ministry say, including by listening to someone other than the officials. I very, very much appreciate the officials in my ministry and, as a starting point, always have the idea that they might say something right to me • something I can trust and something that is professionally well-founded. But I also think that as a minister I have a duty to hear others and get an overview of things by hearing people other than my officials.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130175155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130175156	Of course, I have great respect for this and it is perfectly natural that this is the case. Now it is just this case that it is about something as important as saving lives and that we have seen an unreasonable number of right-wing accidents. And here there is a clear recommendation, and those who represent organisations of interest and others in this area have indicated that it would be a very good idea to do so. Does the Minister not plan to take a political position very quickly so that we can react to this? Because if there are lives that can be saved, should we not take and do so as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20161130175237	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130175238	I agree with that. But there are also those who say that if trucks always have to stop, even if there is nothing on their right, it increases the risk of people driving up behind them, and the two risks must of course be weighed against each other, i.e. if those who come up from behind and possibly drive up from behind may be better protected than the cyclists being driven over, and whether it is therefore necessary to make the assessment that we can make such a stop to orientation. But it may also be that, for one reason or another, we have to assess something else when assessing risks to each other. But that's right. I will do this as soon as possible, because it is a serious problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130175317	The questioner for rounding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130175319	Thank you. I do not think it sounds most realistic that there should be a major problem in some driving up the back of a truck with large stop lamps. But okay, let's get it checked out. I acknowledge that the Minister has agreed to examine this as soon as possible and also shares the view that if there are lives saved, it must be done. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130175341	The minister for rounding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130175343	You're welcome. I think we agree that it would be very good if we could reduce the number of right-wing accidents in Denmark and that we therefore have to look at it with our eyes open.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130175354	Thank you to the questioner and the Minister. That was the last question of the day, for I can inform you that Peter Kofod Poulsen under No. 26 questions put to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, Question No. S 278, deleted from the agenda at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20161130175415	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 1 December 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
