ParlaMint-DK_20161011130004	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Mattia Tesfaye (S) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 7 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the refusal of persons who are violent, but not convicted, to join a spouse with a new foreign spouse). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 8 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of masking and covering clothing in public spaces). Nas Khade (KF) and Brian Mikkelsen (KF): Hasteforskning nr. F 4 (Will the Minister explain how to stop the bloodbath in Aleppo?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Defence (Peter Christensen) has informed me that he wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Danish Parliament with a written statement on Nordic defence and emergency cooperation 2016. 2. Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday 13 October 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011130112	It's a matter of course. ]
ParlaMint-DK_20161011130218	The debate is open. The first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011130245	Thank you for the floor, President. Today we are debating a resolution to accede to the Law Enforcement Directive and to apply it in Danish law. The directive, which lays down a minimum level of protection of personal data in the field of law enforcement, provides to a large extent for the continuation of what is already in force under the Personal Data Act and the Order on the protection of personal data in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters within the EU and Schengen cooperation. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the consideration of cooperation with law enforcement authorities in other Member States, including in the field of Schengen cooperation, advocates that Denmark transposes the directive into Danish law. In addition, we are aware of the comments made by both the Institute for Human Rights and the National Police in their respective hearing responses. The Institute of Human Rights stresses that the Law Enforcement Directive will contribute to strengthening the individual's right to data protection in the field of law enforcement, both in Denmark and in the rest of the EU, and to ensuring a uniform level of protection across EU Member States. In the Social Democratic Party we also stress that the directive will strengthen the rights of the individual in several areas, including by extending the right to income and the right to object. The National Police also insists that Denmark's concern to be able to cooperate with law enforcement authorities, including within Schengen, advocates that we implement the directive. Against this background, I should like to inform you that the Social Democrats are in agreement with the motion for a resolution to accede to the directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011130413	Thank you, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011130430	Thank you, sir. President. Today, the Danish Parliament is dealing with the Law Enforcement Directive, which is subject to the Danish reservation in the judicial field and therefore not as the Data Protection Regulation will have direct effect in Denmark. Denmark must therefore accede to the directive on an intergovernmental basis, which means that a majority in the Folketing can withdraw accession at any time. Basically, the Danish People's Party considers that the proposal does not significantly extend the protection of citizens. In a number of other European Member States, it has been difficult for citizens to have data deleted from the authorities, and the directive sets guidelines for this. On the other hand, the scope of the Law Enforcement Directive is quite significant, as it affects all legislation regulating the processing of personal data. We note that the National Police have stated in their response to the consultation that even a relaxed implementation of the directive will entail no insignificant additional cost to the police for the adaptation and possible development of existing IT systems in order to meet the expected number of requests for access to, and corrections and deletions of, personal data in the criminal register. The National Police also state that since the Crime Register dates back to 1978, there are doubts as to whether the Register will meet the new requirements technically and organisationally. The National Police therefore estimate that there may be significant additional costs for setting up a new IT system. Against this background, the Danish People's Party is concerned that the introduction of a directive that does not provide greater security for citizens in relation to personal registration could actually lead to significant administrative and economic loss of resources, from which we as a society will not get anything. The Danish People's Party basically believes that Denmark has rules on personal data security that are fully adequate, and we find it difficult to see the reasonableness of the directive also to include the police handling of cases which are internal in each Member State and which have therefore neither been nor are intended to be exchanged to another Member State. This crosses the line between what can be justified as an EU concern, namely that it involves a cross-border issue and that which should only be a matter for the Member States. The Danish People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal for Denmark to accede to the EU Law Enforcement Directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011130654	Thank you, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011130712	Thank you for the floor. The purpose of the motion for a resolution tabled here is to allow Denmark, on an intergovernmental basis, to accede to the EU directive on data protection in the field of law enforcement. The main objective of the directive itself is to ensure the right of natural persons to the protection of personal data, to ensure the free movement of personal data between law enforcement authorities in the EU and to facilitate cooperation between law enforcement authorities in the Member States. The directive lays down a minimum level of protection of personal data in the field of law enforcement in the various Member States, and this implies to a large extent the continuation of what is already in force here in Denmark under the Personal Data Act and the Order on the protection of personal data in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters within the European Union and Schengen cooperation. However, the directive also involves some changes to the conditions under which law enforcement authorities, for example. may collect, record and disclose personal data and an extension of the rights of data subjects, such as: rules on the obligation to provide information when the authorities collect information. Furthermore, to a certain extent, the directive also contains new requirements on how law enforcement authorities are to ensure compliance with rules and the protection of personal data, including the security that personal data do not come to unauthorized knowledge. The directive, as was also mentioned earlier, is subject to the Danish legal reservation. It is not directly binding and will not apply in Denmark, and that is why we must join it on an intergovernmental basis. If that happens, an obligation of international law will be created between Denmark and the other Member States bound by the directive. Among other things: In the opinion of the government, cooperation with law enforcement authorities in other Member States, including Schengen, advocates that Denmark should, of course, transpose the directive into Danish law; it is also an excellent directive in itself. As has also been mentioned, the implementation of the directive will have economic and administrative consequences for the public sector, but the extent of this is then awaiting an ongoing analysis. With these words, the Left agrees that we are acceding to the directive on an intergovernmental basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011130936	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011130953	In the Enhedslisten, we support Denmark's agreement to the EU directive on data protection in the field of law enforcement on an intergovernmental basis, and we do so because I believe that it will strengthen citizens' legal certainty and data protection in a number of areas, and I think that is the right direction to take. In the first place, we only have to decide here today in the Danish Parliament whether we want to implement the directive, and later the concrete work will then actually bring it into force in Denmark. Here I would just like to point out that our position in the Enhedslisten is that citizens must also ensure in the concrete implementation of the proposal the best possible level of protection of personal data, etc. That means, for example: I also hope that this will give rise to some improvements, for example. will be better opportunities for insight and information about what is being registered about the citizen. This may be related to e.g. the system of automatic license plate recognition, where already there is a lot of information about non-suspected citizens that it is believed could be gained more insight into. I also think it is important to bear in mind that the Institute for Human Rights also points out in the hearings here that there are some areas where it would be important for the Folketing to set the level, precisely to ensure that there is better security for citizens and not to open up the possibility of weakening in any of these areas. So as long as we keep pointing forward after that, I think it is right, really positive. Finally, I would like to say that I also think it is worth considering whether we could not tighten up here in Denmark so that the intelligence services, in other words PET and Defence Intelligence, are also subject to similar rules, because it is quite clear that intelligence services are doing a great deal in the field of justice, and the Defence Intelligence Service is responsible for the Centre for Cybersecurity. So I also think it is an important priority that we ensure that intelligence services are subject to proper regulation, including in relation to data protection. So that is something that I think we should pay attention to in the future. But the short of the long one is that we, the Enhedslisten, can support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131230	There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Eva Flyvholm by Mr Flyvholm. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131234	Thank you. I had the impression that the Enhedslisten was in favour of Denmark leaving the European Union. And then I really think it's a little strange that you choose to vote for this directive, regardless of the fact that perhaps in the Enhedslisten's optics I personally do not see it can be some positive thing in it. So I would really like to have a fundamental reflection on how to support a directive from the European Union when it is the case that Enhedslisten wishes to withdraw. And I would also like to hear the rapporteur's reflection on the secret service... Does the rapporteur really believe that the secret service should be obliged to provide information to citizens about whom the intelligence service has registered? I mean, for example... An Islamist terrorist planning an attack in Denmark must be able to call the intelligence service and be told that it says they and the things about him. I would like to know whether that is the rapporteur's sincere position.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131343	Thank you for the questions. To try to respond to the first, I would say that it is quite right that we want to get out of the European Union and that I am critical of EU legislation in a number of areas. What I think is very good about this is that it is a question of something being agreed on an intergovernmental basis. In other words, it is ultimately the Folketing that has the opportunity to assess and set the level of how we make this legislation. We have an influence on it ourselves, and I think that is a very good principle for how to work together at European level. Of course, I believe that we need to work together at European level on some of these things, and in this case it also raises our level. So this is in line with how we see working together internationally and in the European Union: it must be done on an intergovernmental basis. As far as intelligence services are concerned, I believe that they should be subject to much better rules of supervision and so on. There will then be some things with which the intelligence services are sitting, in which it is reasonable that citizens cannot gain insight. There are also already in the area of justice some places where you can reject it. In general, however, I believe that there should be better regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131504	It is basically just a cheap, almost free round, so to say that there must be better regulation. That could really mean anything. What I was aware of was that the rapporteur was told in his speech that, as far as the secret services are concerned, the same rules should actually apply, as is the case in this directive. And there I think perhaps the rapporteur went a little too far, even after Enhedslisten's optics. In other words, the rapporteur must be able to say very clearly whether it is the case that someone who is thinking about committing a terrorist attack in Denmark should have a right to call the police intelligence service and find out whether or not the police intelligence service is looking for it. In other words, the rapporteur must be able to reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131552	No, I don't think the person should be given the opportunity to do that. I do not think we will be able to do that in relation to the legislation that is here. There are a number of options to exempt things from this directive. That is already in the legislation, and there will be here too. So no: it will not apply to the intelligence services either. However, I believe that it is quite hollow that the intelligence services, which collect so many data on citizens, are not subject to proper data protection rules which benefit all citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131634	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131647	Thank you. After all, data protection is a matter of great concern to the Liberal Alliance, and this is a directive which strengthens legal certainty for natural persons in the field of law enforcement, and it is of course difficult to oppose. And this is especially true in a time when data is something, or an area that floats globally; flowing across borders. Therefore, it also makes sense that this is a problem that is addressed internationally. The Liberal Alliance supported the Data Protection Directive when we dealt with it in the European Committee, which is why it makes sense, of course, that we support B3 today. And then I should say from the Conservative People's Party that they also support B 3.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131743	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131759	Thank you, sir. President. I can say from the point of view of the alternative that we also clearly support cooperation in the area of data protection. This helps to ensure legal certainty for the individual. And it is very, very sensible to do this under the auspices of the European Union, as it is often also about how to work together across countries on these things. One of the things that we are very pleased about is that it is precisely minimum levels that are being set here, so that the countries can actually increase the safety of the individual beyond that. We think that is a very sensible way of working on this area, so we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131845	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131856	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution, the Government seeks the consent of the Danish Parliament that Denmark accedes to the Law Enforcement Directive. This means increased cooperation between law enforcement authorities, but also increased legal certainty for natural persons in relation to data protection. The two things are very well connected, and we, like others, stress that the Institute for Human Rights thus considers that it can lead to a strengthening of the individual's right to data protection in the field of law enforcement and a more uniform level of protection in the European Union. However, we also stress that the Institute for Human Rights emphasises that these are minimum standards, which therefore do not prevent Denmark from setting a higher level. So with these words, I should like to say that the Radical Left too can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011131957	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no brief comments here either. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132011	I can say that we also support this proposal. Many sensible things have been said which I shall not repeat. But in general it strengthens legal certainty and it is a sensible area to work together on. That's why it's natural for SF to back this up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132028	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. The next one is the Attorney General. He's got the platform all to himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132046	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the motion for a resolution. With the motion for a resolution, I propose that the Danish Parliament give its consent to the government's agreement on behalf of Denmark to the EU directive on data protection in the field of law enforcement. The Directive was adopted on 27 April 2016 and is subject to the Danish legal reservation, but as it also extends the Schengen acquis, Denmark can accede to the Directive by 27 October 2016. It is the government's view that among other things: the protection of Danes' personal data and the need for cooperation with law enforcement authorities in other Member States, including in the context of Schengen cooperation, advocate that Denmark accedes to the directive and transposes it into Danish law. The main aim of the directive is to ensure the right of natural persons to the protection of personal data and to ensure the free movement of personal data between law enforcement authorities in the EU. The aim is also to facilitate cooperation between EU Member States in the field of law enforcement. The Directive lays down a minimum level of protection of personal data in the field of law enforcement. As far as Denmark is concerned, this will largely mean a continuation of what is already in force in Denmark today. However, the directive will also bring about changes. There will be, among other things: the introduction of more rights for citizens. As an example of a right introduced by the directive, I can mention that law enforcement authorities are obliged to make a number of information available to the citizens, such as the authorities. records information on. In special cases, the authorities are required to provide the citizen with a number of information so that the citizen can exercise his or her rights. It can, for example, be done. This is a right which we already know in this area today. In addition, the citizen is given the right to have incorrect or incomplete information about himself corrected or completed and a right to have data deleted if, for example, they are: collected illegally. Conversely, as in the case of the rights already in force, there is access to restricting rights on grounds of a number of public interests, including the investigation of criminal proceedings or the security of the State. The directive will also strengthen data protection and data security. This is done with new and specific requirements on how the authorities are to ensure compliance with the rules on the protection of personal data. There are specific requirements for the security of personal data not being disclosed or misused. For example, specific requirements are made for authorities to implement appropriate technical and organisational measures designed for data protection. It is also a new requirement for the authorities to appoint a data protection officer to advise and monitor compliance by the authorities with the rule of the directive, including the requirement of security. Finally, the authorities are required to inform the supervisory authority of personal data breaches when the breach involves a risk for the protection of citizens' personal data. The protection of personal data is increasingly important as a result of the development of society and technological opportunities. This is an area that the government takes very seriously. A unanimous Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, with its January report on data security last year, has confirmed that this is an area of broad agreement on priorities. In line with the increased focus on the protection of Danes' personal data, the rules of the directive set a minimum level for the protection of personal data by law enforcement authorities. This also guarantees the Danes' personal data if they are exchanged with other EU Member States. In the view of the government, it will only benefit the protection of Danes' personal data to opt for the EU directive on data protection in the field of law enforcement. Furthermore, it will benefit cooperation between Denmark and the law enforcement authorities of other EU countries that Denmark has the same minimum level of data protection as in the rest of the European Union. On the other hand, it may be detrimental to cooperation if Denmark does not accede to the directive. Failure to sign up will include, inter alia: the Schengen acquis, in particular data protection in the field of Schengen cooperation. Denmark is therefore at risk of getting even more difficult by negotiating a special agreement with the other EU countries in the field of police and other law enforcement. This is because the directive's level of protection must be regarded as a fundamental prerequisite for large parts of EU law enforcement cooperation. In this context, I would like to stress that it is absolutely essential that Danish police and other Danish law enforcement authorities continue to work closely with their European colleagues and continue to have access to and to exchange the necessary information in the fight against serious crimes. With these words, I would like to thank you for a good debate and I look forward to a favourable treatment of the motion for a resolution in the Committee on European Affairs, in which I will answer any questions that may arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132527	First of all, there are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132534	Thank you. Now there is a good tradition in the Folketing that we make decisions on a reasonably well-lit economic basis. I have to say that, in relation to the specific case, it looks a little different, among other things. in the light of the consultation answer given by the National Police on the technical systems and IT systems. There I can read from the commentary on the statement from the Ministry of Justice that I quote: "After the Ministry of Justice's assessment, it is still too early to determine the detailed consequences of Article 20, including the consequences for the police's existing IT systems. ▪ Does the Minister not agree with me that it would have been beneficial if the Danish Parliament had had the opportunity to gain insight into the extent to which the existing police IT systems could cope with the challenge posed by this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132627	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132628	You don't say you don't want to tell them. It is said that it is still too early to say anything about it. The point is that faced with the advantages of this directive, it is, in fact, a minor issue at the moment. I shall now return to the matter in the Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132647	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132648	I also believe that we can come closer to an answer to this question in the Committee on European Affairs, because we have often been surprised, it can be said, that things that might not have cost a great deal of money are still going to cost a great deal. Therefore, it would be nice to have a deeper insight into how much money this is actually about. But I note that the Minister will come back to the question. We'll find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132719	Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132720	Now it can be said that, in relation to Denmark's security, which is quite close to our hearts, economics can play a slightly smaller role in some contexts. The point is that if we do not accede to this, we will be faced with slipping out of Schengen. And one of the essential systems that we have access to and benefit from in relation to the Schengen system is the so-called Schengen Information System to which the Schengen participating countries have access. It informs us when checking someone who wants to enter a Schengen area, i.e. if the person is wanted by one of the other Schengen countries. It is a means that Denmark would lose if we were in the situation that we were not in, and it is a disagreement that we have in a number of areas with precisely the Danish People's Party: Is this beneficial for Denmark or not? And that also applies to the whole issue of Europol. For the government, these are very central areas that serve to ensure Denmark's security. Perhaps that is why we do not necessarily immerse ourselves in every corner and outer edge, for example. in relation to small-scale economic issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132821	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132823	Thank you very much to the Minister for this presentation. As I said, I am very pleased that something is happening here that, like promoting citizens' data protection and citizens' rights. It's really nice. I also took note of the Minister's statement that there are opportunities to exclude the right of access, including in areas such as those of Mr Beazley's report. Kenneth Kristensen Berth asked me earlier. However, I would like to hear from the Minister: was it not an idea to use this excellent set of rules as an inspiration for how we could ensure a little better protection of citizens' rights in relation to the data recorded by the intelligence services, in other words the Defence Intelligence Service and the PET? Was it not possible that protection could be extended a little more in this area too?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011132922	But now Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth shown just what Mrs Flyvholm so desires. So, I must not say first of all that the intelligence services will not be obliged to provide certain information because of this. They will not be, and certainly not, if it is a threat to the security of the state. In addition, I would like to say that I think the rules as they are are quite excellent. We have a few changes, and that is actually in relation to when the intelligence service is going to review certain personal data. In fact, we would like to see an increase in this because there has been a lack of clarity in the discussion between the supervision and the intelligence services. So I think Eva Flyvholm and I are looking at this question a little differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133004	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133005	I think the Minister is quite right about that. After all, we want to strengthen the supervision of the intelligence services. But I would just like to say, just to make it clear: there is no question that, because of the introduction of better rules for intelligence services, citizens will have a right to see everything. This is not the case with these rules, because, as the Minister himself says, there is an opportunity to exempt things. I would like the Minister to confirm whether it is not true that the intelligence services are increasingly involved in much of this judicial work. It can also be seen that many of the information we are discussing here can also be handed over to, for example. Police Intelligence, etc. So there is some reasoning in trying to think across, in terms of how to ensure personal data protection there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133056	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133057	Now Mrs Eva Flyvholm used a rather subjective term, namely the term better rules. I mean, I'm always in favour of better rules, but I guess I quite disagree with Mrs Flyvholm about what better rules are. And I think that the current state of law is a good thing. We will then come up with a small amendment, which is about an interpretation, so I do not think I will say much more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133121	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133138	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133205	Thank you for the floor. The Refugee Board plays an important role in Danish asylum policy. We therefore find it problematic that over the past many years there has been an eternal political debate about the composition of the name and that the work and decisions of the name are regularly called into question. It creates uncertainty and distrust, and we need the opposite. There is therefore a need for broad political clarification so that calm and continuity can be achieved, even if government forces change. And that is not only continuity in the composition of the Refugee Board, but in relation to the entire Danish asylum procedure. I also said all this when we discussed the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party on the same subject before the summer recess, and of course we continue to think so. That is why we also regret the fact that a bill has now been tabled by the government which is only close to the composition of the Refugee Board and a few other details. The Social Democratic Party believes that the members of the Refugee Board appointed by Danish Refugee Aid have done a good job. We certainly have no reason to believe otherwise. We do not think there can be any doubt about the serious work done by the Members who have been appointed by them. We have even tried to examine whether it is possible to argue that several decisions have been reversed by the National Council for Foreigners during the periods during which Danish Refugee Aid has had appointed members, and that cannot be done. According to our calculations, approx. 21% of the decisions of the Board regardless of the composition of the Board. On the other hand, Danish Refugee Aid is at the same time a political interest organisation which plays a role in the foreign policy debate in Denmark. We ourselves felt this in the Social Democratic Party when the organisation criticised our otherwise incredibly good advertising campaign, which we launched prior to the parliamentary elections in 2015. It is, of course, entirely legitimate for them to criticise, but on this basis I cannot deny that there can be any sense in keeping the organisation out of a court-like body which administers Danish legislation on foreigners. There are therefore arguments both for and against changing the composition of the Refugee Board, but it is still crucial for us that the discussion should be extended to cover more issues in the asylum procedure and that the discussion on the composition of the Board should be taken on a better basis. That is why we are abstaining. Our plan is to vote yellow. We would like to see a thorough examination of the asylum procedure in cases where the name changes practice, for example. in relation to applicants from certain geographical areas, as we saw in relation to refugees from Syria; an examination of the decisions taken on the basis of judgments that have fallen before the European Court of Human Rights and a discussion of their impact on Danish asylum policy; and a discussion of how best to ensure the best possible assessment in the many cases where the decision must be based on an assessment of the applicant's credibility, both in the assessments of the Foreign Affairs Agency and in the assessments of the Refugee Board; I have also noted that the Institute for Human Rights recommends that the Minister for Justice and not the Minister for Foreign Affairs be given the authority to appoint a member to the mention, and I think that makes sense immediately. It will then be ensured that the Ministry to which the name belongs organisationally does not at the same time appoint a member to the Board. Finally, I should like to say that the bill also proposes to remove the person from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and this has raised concerns in a series of consultation responses asking how to ensure access to asylum seekers' countries of origin. It is a relevant concern, but it must be manageable. I am well aware that the composition of the Refugee Board is of great symbolic importance to others, and it has been so since 1983, but that is not what matters to us. That is what the Social Democratic Party said before the summer recess, and we continue to think so, and with the hope that a more thorough study will be launched to qualify the debate on the asylum procedure before we put together the members of the Council, I would like to thank you for the floor in the hope of a good discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133546	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133551	When we discuss the courts with legal certainty, it is usually a legitimate position, not to say a necessary position, that the impartiality of a court decision is guaranteed. In other words, those who pass judgment do not have private interests or private relations with what the judgment refers to. If a judge knows either the perpetrator or the victim personally to take a verdict of violence now, then this judge will be incompetent. And that's exactly what I think Danish Refugee Aid is in this case. It is a private organization of political interest which has certainly taken part in the political debate and indeed has put its lot in the balance in relation to Danish refugee policy and, of course, this whole view that as long as we open our borders, everything will be happy. I just have to ask: does it not at all make the impression that there is an organisation that cannot be said to be impartial and that decisions of a courtlike nature are taken? I think it is strange that this does not affect the rapporteur at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133721	Thank you. Well, I do not agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that there is an organisation which makes decisions. Well, it's not Danish Refugee Aid that sits on the Refugee Board. These are some Members whom they appoint, and yet I think it is important to separate them. However, I agree that Danish Refugee Aid plays a political role in Danish foreign policy, and that is why I think that it is also a problem if there are problems of hope. This is what we have tried to investigate, not only by looking at how many decisions are being reversed, but also by trying to stick your finger a little in the ground and to see if anyone has had problems with the members appointed by Danish Refugee Aid. And we certainly can't see that. That is why we are asking for a slightly more thorough study, not only of the composition of the Refugee Board, but of how the entire asylum procedure works. It must be on the basis of what we decide on the composition of the Council, and not on the basis of who has problems with whom on the basis of some 30-year-old foreign policy discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133825	I just have to say, I don't understand the position. The representatives who sit there are sitting there on behalf of Danish Refugee Aid. The rapporteur himself has said that it may give rise to problems of viability, because Danish Refugee Aid is a private, political organization of interest, and then I just do not think the argument holds out, because Danish Refugee Aid is in this situation ill-advised. They're inhabited. So I would say that if there is any question whatsoever about the impartiality of the Refugee Board, because Danish Refugee Aid has representatives sitting, that is enough to say that they should not sit there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011133921-2	I disagree that the two people are now so one person can be appointed by Danish Refugee Aid, representing Danish Refugee Aid. If they were acting as representatives of Danish Refugee Aid and were informed from home about how to behave, then we would have a problem of viability. I can, of course, reverse the question and say: on what basis do the Danish People's Party believe that the members appointed by Danish Refugee Aid have been involved in questioning whether they have their ability in order? At least we have not been able to see that. This does not mean that we believe that the present composition of the Refugee Board is necessarily right. It may have to be changed, and it may also be that the designated members of Danish Refugee Aid should be released. But we just want this to happen on a different basis from what I see as a bit of a symbolic political blow in the air.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134015	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, who has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134017	Thank you very much. I appreciate, of course, that the rapporteur takes this issue very seriously, but quite frankly: this issue has been discussed since 2002, if not anymore. It's 15 years. It has been discussed back and forth, even when the rapporteur's own party has put the name together in the format that it currently has. So it is not because we have not had the opportunity to discuss it and come to a final decision. When the rapporteur's party was in government, it clearly meant something quite different from today. Can the rapporteur clarify what caused this change of attitude in relation to the fact that the rapporteur's party itself had the power of government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134055	I know that not only on the part of the Social Democratic Party, but also on the part of some of our government partners, and I can tell you that for sure, in connection with the change of government in 2011 there was a great desire that Danish Refugee Aid should again have the opportunity to appoint members of the Refugee Board. That is my position now and, by the way, has always been that the composition of the Refugee Board has become more symbolic than substance. And that is why we are now trying to appeal to the asylum procedure underlying the decisions of the Refugee Board to form the basis for a better discussion than just to discuss whether Gammeltoft-Hansen's old organisation or Pia Kjærsgaard should be right. We believe that there should be a basis for a more thorough discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134153	Thank you. I do not think this is a symbolism. In other words, there was a composition of the 00s that was very similar to what the government is proposing here. So there are two very, very specific examples to compare: what was it like in the past? What was it like under the Red Government? As the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party pointed out: when you have people in the name of Danish Refugee Aid, a private humanitarian organisation with political objectives, it is important to remove any doubts. And then it puzzles me that Denmark's largest party just says that you will not decide that you vote blankly. Does the rapporteur not wish to remove any doubts as to whether the name is independent?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134241	Yes, but what I'm trying to say is that we don't think that doubt is justified. At least we do not see that it is justified. After all, it must be based on something other than that there are some who say out of the blue that Danish Refugee Aid has disability problems. In fact, we have tried both to sit down and to look a little carefully at the changes in the decisions of the Foreigners' Agency, but also, as I said before, to stick our finger in the ground with some of the people we know to be part of this procedure, to find out whether, in their opinion, it is such that the members appointed by Danish Refugee Aid affect Danish immigration policy by laying other than factual considerations of alien law. And we just can't see that. That's why we don't think this bill should be used to gook Danish Refugee Aid in the head in a 30-year discussion. We would like to get a little more objectivity into the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134346	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134348	Thank you. In fact, I think that the rapporteur is well in the process of going over the head of the Danish Refugee Board, because the rapporteur will not stand by the line we agreed on under the Helle Thorning Schmidt government. That is quite right, as Mr. Marcus Knuth points out that there's nothing new in this. In other words, the majority of the VKO carried out what is now on the agenda, but which we agreed to change when we had a majority together. So my question to the rapporteur is: what is new?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134424	I think the greatest news is that I am now standing here alone as a representative of my own party and that in the past there have been some here as representatives of an entire government who have had to compromise. I have never seen it as a cardinal point who had the right to appoint members of the Refugee Board. I think it is much more relevant to discuss the procedure behind it. We must remember that this is not a political fight in the Refugee Board, where the designated members of Danish Refugee Aid are pulling on one side and the members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing are pulling on the other side. After all, it is a legal discussion whether or not they comply with certain principles in order to be granted asylum. That is why I think it will be a bit harsh that the Danish People's Party on the one hand and the Enhedslisten on the other hand now make the composition of the nickname the cardinal point of the Danish asylum procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134525	Well, that question was important enough for us to agree under the previous government that we could not accept the amputation that the majority of the VKO carried out. That's why we fixed it. I understand from the rapporteur that the only new thing is that now social democracy is no longer in government. Can I be so free to interpret it in such a way that the Social Democrats would very much like to be in government and that we have adopted the strategy that we cannot go into government unless we stick more or less closely to the policy of refugees and foreigners in the bourgeois wing? Is that really what this is about?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134608	Sir. Finn Sørensen must interpret and analyze what he wants. What I and the Social Democrats are concerned with is that from a person on the border saying asylum and then the Refugee Board as the final appeal body has taken a decision, we must have a proper procedure. We believe that reasons can be raised for having a qualified discussion on several things in the procedure that is essential, and that is not essential, I think that the Refugee Board has three members as in the 00s, whether they have 5 as they now have, or whether they have 7 as they had in the 1980s and 1990s. That is not the decisive factor, and it is not at all decisive who has the right to point out the lawyers who are to sit in the list. What I really think is the most interesting thing if we were finally to point out the composition of the Council is to discuss whether the Ministry of Refugees's organisational responsibility, namely the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, should also be the Ministry of Justice which appoints members, or if it would not actually be smarter to move it over to the Ministry of Justice. The second is whether we are sure that the information that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has about the applicants' countries of origin is also included in the treatment of the Refugee Board in a qualified manner. It is far more interesting than if Danish Refugee Aid points to one or the other lawyer to sit on the committee. It is as if Enhedslisten has also been captured by the symbolic markings of the Danish People's Party in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134730	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134735	Thank you. It is actually in relation to the last point made by the rapporteur, i.e. whether or not it does not matter how many Members are in the list. At any rate, one thing I have put myself in touch with is that several of the answers to the hearings, among others. the Lawyers' Council says that it is crucial that there is at least a broad circle of members in the Board to be sure that you have the right competences in the Board. So is the rapporteur really of the opinion that there could be only three Members on the list?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134807	Thank you for the question which I think is more relevant than the others. I stress that the Refugee Board has access to the information needed to make a proper decision, and that is not just legal competence to look at Danish immigration legislation. It is also insight into how it, for example. appear in the applicants' countries of origin. Does it require that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the opportunity to send a person to the Refugee Board? I don't necessarily think so. But there must be access to that information. I think that is essential.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134843	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134843-2	Well, I am glad that the rapporteur says that. Then I'll just think about how to secure that access. It certainly requires that we get it under control. For some of the things that I would like to stress in my own rapporteur's speech are, of course, ensuring that there is a broad range of Members who have different competences to be able to assess these matters precisely.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011134905	I think it was in 2014 that a case was decided by the European Court of Human Rights. It was the case that two Somalis, I believe, had applied for asylum in Britain and were refused asylum. There the court said that Britain was not entitled to do so because, as far as I remember, they came from an area of Somalia where there was a danger to their security and to their human rights, in other words only by returning to Somalia as far as I remember. And this was the basis of the Refugee Board at that time for us to grant asylum to a lot of people who came from Syria, just because they came from certain geographical areas of Syria. I find that more interesting to discuss. It requires certain competences in the Refugee Board to be able to take a decision that is so crucial to Danish immigration policy. As far as I have been able to investigate, it has not been the case when the decision was taken that it was pushed through by representatives from Danish Refugee Aid. On the contrary, I have only had an experience of the fact that the people appointed by the Danish Refugee Aid played an objective and proper role in that procedure. And as long as that's the case, as long as that's what I'm told, I don't want to be involved in a bullshit hunt on a single organization on a basis that I think is a little unspeakable.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135021	Then there is a brief comment from Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135025	Thank you for that, and thank you for the rapporteur's expression of confidence in objectivity. I am surprised that the rapporteur and his party are planning to vote yellow. I can understand that in the rapporteur's speech we will do so if the Social Democratic Party has full confidence in the way things work. I would, of course, like to ask the rapporteur about this. I would also like to ask the rapporteur something else. The rapporteur explains very well, I think, precisely the competences that are needed, among other things. knowledge of the world, foreign policy and security policy. They must keep up, and if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not to be represented, you must have access to that information. But why does the rapporteur not vote red when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is removed from the list? I find this difficult to understand when access to that knowledge is important to the rapporteur, and it is also important to my party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135116	Thank you for the question. As I said at the outset, I think it is a problem that the composition of the Refugee Board has caused so much concern that every time we have a new government, it has been regrouped. I do not think it suits us that a body which is, after all, a court-like body has been the subject of a symbolic political struggle which must then be decided again on a, I think, somewhat untrue basis. We are voting yellow because we believe that there is a need to calm down the Refugee Board as an organisation. In fact, we would like to endorse an agreement with the government and very much like a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament on how it should look, so that people can be sure that this is also the case after the Social Democracy has taken over the Prime Minister's Office again. That is what we want to signal with our yellow voice. We are also voting yellow because, and it is then for the rapporteur's second question that I am not dressed well enough to assess whether it is necessary to make a proper decision, that there is a representative from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the board, or whether that information can simply be transferred, as I must assume they have done through the 00s, since there were only three people in the board. I simply do not know the internal organisational procedures, but that is what we would like to have a slightly more qualified basis for decision-making on the basis of. That is why I will conclude by saying the same thing I said to the Minister before the summer recess. And it is that we are calling for a proper examination of the whole procedure, for a call for negotiation and for a broad majority to be created behind such an important organisation as the Refugee Board, so that we can be sure that this will not be changed after elections either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135303	I just need to be absolutely sure that, at the moment, there are no factual arguments for taking Danish refugee aid out of the list. There is no basis for this. That is what I agree with the rapporteur on purely symbolic policy. And you have a concern to take the Ministry of Foreign Affairs out of the name because access to that knowledge is very important. Then you vote yellow, because then we stop discussing it, and then it stops being symbol politics. I just need to confirm that this is the direction of social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135337	The Radical Left rapporteur is right in the first 90 per cent. of his speech, namely that we are voting yellow because we do not believe that there is a basis for raising the question of the viability of Danish refugee aid, which we among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). But we are not voting yellow to close the discussion. We are voting yellow in order to send out the signal that we would like to have a proper examination of the entire asylum procedure and a political debate that would allow a broad political majority to be created to calm the work of the Refugee Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135410	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135415	Thank you. That's 'cause I hear Mr. Knox. Mattias Tesfaye said that the Socialist side had some other suggestions on how to put together the Refugee Board. Then I would just like to ask why these proposals have not been made until we stand here today on the platform. Because this is a legislative proposal which has been under way for some time now, and I do not wish to deny that we could have found some solution with the Social Democrats on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135449	When we discussed the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party before the summer recess, the Social Democratic Party said that we would like to call on the government to create a better basis for decision than that which was then behind the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution and that we would like to take part in some political negotiations on how the Refugee Board should be composed. We have seen nothing before the legislative proposal that has now been in consultation and has now been tabled, and that is the same basis on which we have to discuss it as we had before the summer recess. But it is also only a first reading, and if the Left and thus the government are prepared for the next two readings to take place on the basis of a proper study of how the Danish asylum procedure works and how the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights have had an impact on Danish asylum policy and, therefore, what this will have to do with the work of the Refugee Board, then we in the Social Democratic Party are very prepared to use the next two readings and the committee procedure to find a compromise that we can all be in. And you yourself have pointed to the possibility of e.g. to have the Minister of Justice and not the Minister of Foreign Affairs appoint the member of the Board appointed by the Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135608	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135610	Well, I suppose the Minister will comment on that in the end. Anyway, sir. Marcus Knuth and I are reading e-mails, and we're on this address list. So you can easily find out the address; it doesn't require much. So you could have sent your proposal and asked if it might be something we would look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135635	I see that the Social Democratic Party has raised its hand. We already did so when we discussed the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party before the summer recess. I am happy to do it again, but everything else equal is not our secretariat that has the opportunity to have a thorough official examination of the Danish asylum procedure. Everything else equal must be the government that ensures that there is a proper basis for decision, so we discuss the composition of the council on the basis of something other than an old grudge for Gammeltoft-Hansen, and who else has had a less fortunate role in Danish foreign policy over the years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135713	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye, there are no more brief remarks. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011135724	Thank you for the floor, President. There is no doubt that we would like to see the Refugee Board closed, but we have also proposed here before the summer break that Danish Refugee Aid no longer be able to appoint a representative to the Refugee Board. The Refugee Board is an independent judicial and appeal body which deals with rejected asylum applications. If an asylum seeker is refused his/her case, he/she can appeal to the Refugee Board, which then takes a final decision and cannot be appealed. As I have said, I believe that it is possible to discuss the usefulness of the Refugee Board. I am of the clear opinion that when an asylum case is rejected by the Immigration Authority, it is. Then it has been rejected and there is no need for an additional appeal body. But now that the Refugee Board is there, it is essential in principle that the impartiality of the name is guaranteed, and that means that the orders made by the name are subject to objective criteria which cannot be called into question. This applies to every court, and it also applies to the Refugee Board. If a judge has personal interests in a case, the sole suspicion would be that the judge in question would be to be regarded as ill-advised. If a judge has close relations with the perpetrator or victim in any violent case, or if, in one way or another, he could be suggested to have an interest in the outcome of the judgment, then the judge in question would be to be regarded as ill-advised, since a judgment should always be made on an objective and impartial basis. It is the very principles of the rule of law that we are dealing with here. The draft law we are now discussing concerns the composition of the Refugee Board and is very much helping to ensure the impartiality and objectivity of its decisions. The bill means that Danish Refugee Aid will no longer be represented on the Refugee Board or appoint a representative on the Refugee Board, just as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not be. You can have different views on Danish Refugee Aid, and we all do. However, it remains to be seen that Danish Refugee Aid is a private political interest organisation which has put its weights in the balance, also in relation to how Danish refugee policy is to be conducted. It is true for any private organization of interest that it has its own interests and promotes its own objectives, and it must then be said that Danish Refugee Aid has advocated that Denmark should receive many, many more refugees. In addition, Danish Refugee Aid plays a central role in many of the cases dealt with by the Refugee Board. Thus, doubts can also be raised about the organisation's impartiality and the designation they make, which is why Danish Refugee Aid should not be included in the Refugee Board. The Danish People's Party agrees with the proposal. After all, we have proposed the same thing ourselves, and we are pleased that the government is coming to meet us, so we therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140118	Thank you, sir. Christian Langballe. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140138	Thank you, sir. President. We live in a community governed by the rule of law, a society in which we believe that the individual courts have an independent composition. We live in a world where we have full confidence that boards and complaints bodies can act and operate impartially. This bill has been tabled by the government to ensure that the composition of the Refugee Board is based on the legal pillars on which we have built our society. And that is just as important, I would say, to ensure that the Refugee Board appears as an independent board. We do not believe in the government that the Refugee Board can appear 100%. objectively, if Danish Refugee Aid and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have the opportunity to have representatives sitting around the table where candidates for the Refugee Board are appointed. We do not say We want to ensure that in future they appear to be completely impartial. With this bill, the rules on the composition of the Refugee Board are being rolled back to what was in force from 2002 to 2013. The Refugee Board has therefore been operating under this scheme for more than 10 years, so this is not a revolutionary proposal, but a roll-back to a status quo from the former VK government. Then I would also like to praise Danish Refugee Aid for the huge work they do in the world and for refugees here in Denmark. We just don't think that their role is to sit on the board. Some people were talking about the fact that this was punk Danish Refugee Aid. I don't think so at all. They must have the greatest praise for their work. At the same time, we propose that the President of the Refugee Board be entitled to a further four years' term of office in addition to the four-year term of office currently in force. The President of the Refugee Board may therefore chair the Refugee Board for a maximum of 12 years. We do so in order to ensure the necessary continuity in the work of the Refugee Board and no changes to the rules for the protection period of the other members are proposed. I would just like to say a brief word about the Social Democratic Party: I am glad that the Social Democratic Party has critical thoughts about the way in which it is now composed, since it was the Social Democratic Party that helped to put it together in this way. I just wish that those proposals and ideas had come a long way earlier, possibly when the Social Democracy itself was in government. In the Left, we want to roll back the rules for the composition of the name so that we ensure a neutral representation that allows the name to function and appear 100 per cent. neutral. Against this background, the Left will vote in favour of the bill, and we will of course do so in the second element of the bill, which guarantees an additional four-year period for the President of the Refugee Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140440	Thank you. There are some brief comments and the first is from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140446	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Can the rapporteur explain what makes the members of the Refugee Board appointed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not neutral when the officials coming from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration are? I didn't think I could hear that in the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140510	Thank you for the question. I have not said that the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are not neutral. We want to go back to the composition of the denominator that existed under the VK government, because that is the model that we see as the best. The presence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is something that came together with the fact that Danish Refugee Aid had the opportunity to appoint representatives, as well as that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs appoints representatives. So it is not to cast doubt on the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We just want, so to speak, to remove a part from both sides of the composition that has been mentioned today, so that we go back to the composition that was in the 00s.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140553	Thank you. But there has to be a reason why it is considered to be a better designation. I understand there are those discussions about Danish Refugee Aid. But I would like to clarify what it is that makes us cut off the nominations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs right now. Why does the rapporteur think that this should be the case, in addition to going back to the old model? There must be some justification, I think. Why do you think that model is best?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140622	There are two very different things here. In relation to Danish Refugee Aid, we want to remove any doubt that the representatives they have to sit there are impartial. In relation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I have as much confidence in their representatives as I do in officials from any other ministry. However, we do not see any need to have representatives from two different ministries in the case of asylum cases, which by their very nature belong more naturally to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140658	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140703	In other words, it is in order to establish the principle of the discussion. I fully agree that from now on we can discuss Danish Refugee Aid to the end of the world because they have indeed been a player in the political debate. But I would like to ask the question of principle. I should like to ask whether the rapporteur agrees with me that, when dealing with a court-like body, it is in principle the same as we consider the Supreme Court, the Court of Justice, the City Court and other courts in this country. And that is to say, if there is any doubt about a court's decision, because there can be doubts about the ability of each member, then that is something that should be pursued. And is it not of fundamental importance that there should be no doubt as to the ability of the individual Member?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140802	Yeah, and that's what I came up with. We want to remove any doubts as to whether the representatives appointed by Danish Refugee Aid are one hundred percent objective or impartial. However, I would like to say that, when it comes to boards, we have also mentioned other places in Denmark where there are representatives of interest groups. They can then sit there because they provide advice that they think is beneficial. But in these cases there is typically one on the other side, i.e. one on the other side. both one from the environment and one from agriculture to give an example. And that is not the case here. In addition, care must be taken to say that precisely the Refugee Board would benefit, for example. an NGO, as is the case here, and that is precisely because they sit and decide matters relating to individuals. That is why we want to remove any doubts as to whether the representatives appointed by Danish Refugee Aid are objective or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140901	As there are no further brief comments, we thank Mr. Marcus Knuth. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011140920	Thank you, President. The number of members of the Refugee Board goes up and down, depending on who holds a majority in the Folketing. When the right was given a majority in the 2001 elections, the possibility of Danish Refugee Aid was quickly removed from membership of the Refugee Board, just as the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was removed from what is now being proposed. When the R-S-SF government, together with Enhedslisten 10 years later, gained a majority, we fortunately had the V-LA-K government quickly restored the professionalism lost by the VKO majority amputation of the name in 2002. Now a new right-wing majority will then again put Danish Refugee Aid and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs outside the door. I have no doubt that the consequence will be a loss of professional competence in the handling of asylum cases by the Refugee Board. The official argument of the right is that, when we talk about refugee aid, the Refugee Board does not appear independent when a private humanitarian organisation nominates members. That's a strange argument. First of all, there are representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, i.e. representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And the Foreigners' Authority is the authority that has made the decision in the first instance in these cases. The Refugee Board then decides at second instance. In other words, if you complain about a decision taken by the Foreign Affairs Council, the matter will be referred to the Refugee Board. Here are representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, i.e. representatives of the overall authority of those complained of. So if we were finally to discuss the lack of independence and inability in relation to the Refugee Board, then it was a much more relevant place to take action, that is to say to discuss the representation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs via some officials. Secondly, the members proposed by Danish Refugee Aid are not employed in Danish Refugee Aid. They are personally appointed and do not lose their membership of the Board when changing jobs. They are simply appointed because of their competences in the area, whereas representatives appointed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing lose their place in the Board if they are deprived of their position in the Ministry. They are therefore not personally designated, nor are they independent to the extent of the members nominated by Danish Refugee Aid. As I have said, I think it is possible to ask whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the supreme authority of the Foreign Affairs Board, which has, after all, taken the decision at first instance and rejected, should nominate members to the board that the government would like to have to appear independently. Finally, if we want to discuss inability and lack of independence, that is where we had to start. In Enhedslisten we believe that an okay balance was found in 2012. We ensured a strengthening of asylum-related competence in the Council, both by allowing refugee aid to appoint members and by allowing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to appoint members, just as we did not try to change the members appointed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Since the Hungarian refugees arrived here in 1956, Danish Refugee Aid has not only provided a unique humanitarian effort for many thousands of refugees in Denmark and all over the world. Fortunately, there is agreement on this, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for it. However, refugee aid has also built up considerable refugee expertise, which the government chooses to make less use of with this bill. We in Enhedslisten find this extremely regrettable, just as it is our clear assessment that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has a relevant knowledge about conditions around the world. So the Enhedslisten can't support this bill. I cannot fail to conclude by saying that I think it is a pity and completely incomprehensible and I know that it does not change anything in relation to whether there is a majority in favour or against the proposal that the Socialists do not stand by the line, the excellent balance found under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011141358	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011141403	Thank you very much. I am pleased that we agree on the praise for the other work of Danish Refugee Aid. However, I find it difficult to follow the rapporteur's argument that representatives appointed by Danish Refugee Aid can be one hundred percent impartial. Some of these are connected to very political organizations. I mean, for example. to have read about someone who was connected to Amnesty International, who is indeed a political organization. How can the rapporteur be one hundred per cent sure that these representatives appointed by Danish Refugee Aid can take off this very political hat when they enter the room, and then be one hundred per cent objective and shelve all their other work and all their other political affiliation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011141446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011141449	I have not used the phrase that we can be one hundred percent sure that they are impartial, because such a guarantee cannot be given for any human being. Nor can it be given for the people appointed by the Ministry of Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011141503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011141504	I would say that our officials are incredibly good at being impartial, so that they can support a red government, a blue government or who is now putting the political line. That's what civil servants do. However, as far as people who come from very, very political organisations are concerned, I find it difficult to see how we can be one hundred percent sure that they are able to put it, what to call it, loyalty when they enter the board and have to do a job. And that is precisely the doubts that we want to remove.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011141534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011141535	It will then be a variation of what I have already answered, just as the rapporteur's question was a variation of the question put by the rapporteur. One cannot issue a hundred percent guarantee that any human being is impartial. Nor can it be done for officials appointed by a minister whose sympathy for their work depends on the officials concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011141600	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011141608	The refugee board's trend towards politicisation has long been a theme in the public debate, and as early as 2014, we in the Liberal Alliance wrote in our immigration initiative that we, and I quote, wanted to depoliticise the Refugee Board and ensure that the political decisions lie with elected politicians accountable to the electorate. This meant, on the one hand, ensuring that decisions on which groups are granted asylum were removed from the Refugee Board and returned to the Folketing, and, on the other hand, that we were open in principle to discuss the composition of the Refugee Board. With the proposal now under discussion, it is first and foremost the composition that we have to deal with, and here the Minister proposes that Danish Refugee Aid and the Foreign Minister should not be able to recommend Members to the Council in future. Now we have nothing against Danish Refugee Aid and so far not against the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But to place them in exactly such a court-like body we do not think that is appropriate, because it can create doubts as to what is being done, and it is not in anyone's interest, nor is it in Danish Aid for Refugees. Moreover, it is worth noting that the introduction to the legislative notes makes it clear that the Refugee Board decides in all cases on the basis of a specific and individual assessment of the circumstances of each case. This point underlines the fact that it has sometimes been necessary to take the concept of de facto refugees and the guidelines we previously saw, after which asylum was granted to all refugees from selected areas in Syria. This practice must not be allowed to take root again. Decisions must depend on concrete individual assessments. That is the most reasonable thing, and it is the democratic mandate given by the Folketing to deal with the asylum processes. With those words, I can inform Parliament that the Liberal Alliance intends to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011141819	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. There are no brief comments, and that is why we shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Josephine Fock from the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011141831	Thank you. The bill we are discussing here today is that Danish Refugee Aid and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should no longer be able to nominate members of the Refugee Board, and that the President should be able to sit for 3 times 4 years instead of 2 times 4 years. The alternative is against this change and it is worrying that Danish Refugee Aid is being called into question. I think it is important to point out that this is not an employment relationship with the people appointed by Danish Refugee Aid, and I think that it is problematic to go in and change the composition here, despite the fact that there has been no criticism of professional decisions. I am also surprised that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being deprived of the opportunity to appoint a member, because that makes it very narrowly composed, and I am concerned that there will be a lack of competence in the mention. I think it is important to look at the various consultation answers that have been received, among other things. the Lawyer's Council points out that there is no kind of instructional power on the part of the Danish Refugee Aid to the appointed members and that they are also concerned that there will be a lack of competence in the mention. With those words, we will be extremely critical of this bill. On the other hand, I have no comment on the length of the Presidency; we can support that. But as I said, we are critical of this change of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011142031	There are no brief comments, so we thank Mrs Josephine Fock. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011142039	The government and its parliamentary supporters now want to put Danish Refugee Aid back at the door when it comes to refugees. It is, we think, a paradox in itself, and we in the Radical Left believe that this is a really bad idea. Danish Refugee Aid are those who have expert knowledge of the situation of refugees. The experts appointed by Danish Refugee Aid have been appointed precisely because they have expert knowledge of the situation and situation of refugees, both in the war zones and in the neighbourhoods from which they flee and where they come. It is their duty to describe and point out the situation of refugees. The Foreign Minister also wants to put the Foreign Minister outside the door. The Foreign Minister must no longer be able to appoint members of the Refugee Board with expert knowledge of world conditions. I think that is an exciting way of drawing the internal entanglements of the Left into foreign policy. But it's wrong to do it. The situation of refugees has to do with foreign and security policy, and it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and not the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing who is competent to do so. The Refugee Board is an independent board, a court-like body, as we call it in the law, which is to deal with appeals concerning asylum-related decisions taken by the Aliens' Board. It is not a legislative body. After all, we here in the Folketing are legislators. We have adopted the legislation. I and my party have seen it as a widely known vote against a number of recent laws in the field of foreigners, but I respect them, of course. So the Refugee Board does not change the law. They're dealing with complaints. As you know, the rule of law is characterised by the fact that the tasks are divided between the legislature, the executive and the judiciary, and that one can complain or appeal one's case. If you are a refugee and you do not think that your asylum case has been dealt with in accordance with the rules, you can complain to the Refugee Board. You can't complain to anyone else. And when your case is settled in the Refugee Board, it is finally and cannot be taken to other authorities or courts. I and the Radical Left therefore deeply regret the fact that the government and its supporters and I must understand the Social Democratic Party, with a strangely yellow vote, are now questioning the whole structure. I am truly sorry and saddened that the government and its supporters are helping to cast doubt on the legitimacy of Danish Refugee Aid and even at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are opposed to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011142355	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011142359	Thank you very much. First of all, I do not think it is quite fair to say that we are trying to put Danish refugee aid outside the door. I have just praised all the work done by Danish Refugee Aid and welcomed the close cooperation we have with them in a wide range of areas. The rapporteur for the Enhedslisten also endorsed this, and I was very pleased about it. However, my question is this: if the rapporteur has no problem with an NGO or a political organisation designating members as an otherwise impartial board as the Refugee Board, where is the limit? Would the rapporteur be OK with us, for example? Did Amnesty International appoint representatives to sit on the Refugee Board with a message that they should just stay impartial? Would that be okay, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011142445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011142447	Danish Refugee Aid is one of the largest refugee organisations in the world which, after all, gets funding from far, far more than the Danish state. It is a very, very large player, and it is they who have by far the most extensive expert knowledge of the conditions of refugees on earth, both in the war zones in which they find themselves and in the neighbourhoods in which they are situated, and indeed on the conditions of refugees on the route and when they arrive here. I believe that the assessment that needs to be made is how to obtain the best possible expertise in the Refugee Board to deal with precisely the refugee cases. And there is Danish Refugee Aid for me, therefore, those who with lengths have the greatest expertise and therefore have access to appoint experts with that knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011142546	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011142547	Well, I fully agree with the rapporteur in the description of Danish Refugee Aid and the enormous work they are doing in the world. However, does the rapporteur agree that it is a private organisation which has certain political guidelines? And if the rapporteur agrees with that, will the rapporteur also open up to other political organisations that could recommend representatives to the name if it was up to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011142607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011142609	I do not agree that Danish Refugee Aid is a political organisation. Danish Refugee Aid is an organisation that takes care of refugees. It is an aid organisation that takes care of the conditions of refugees on earth and that receives money from states and the UN and does a gigantic job all over the world. This depends on the assessment of the expertise needed in the Refugee Board. And Danish Refugee Aid is with lengths those with the greatest expertise we have access to in Denmark, and therefore it is incomprehensible to me that they should be placed outside the door of the Refugee Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011142650	We thank Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011142702	When this bill is tabled, it is based on the fact that there is a serious problem that needs to be resolved. And there is the question: have there been problems with Danish Refugee Aid in the Refugee Board? No! As far as I know, there is widespread satisfaction with their work. Has there been any criticism of the professional skills of the people appointed by Danish Refugee Aid? No, there hasn't been. In all the hearings we have seen there has been widespread satisfaction with it and one might ask: Where's the beef? Where is the problem hidden? What are we gonna do with this? Then the government is trying to make such fundamental arguments, which are about viability and so on. I think these are some thin arguments, because it is not Danish refugee aid that sits there. They're pointing people to it. And that with complete objectivity, as Mr. Marcus Knuth said it before, exists if it exists, the more so among those appointed by the Ministry of Integration. The Ministry of Integration is, of course, what Mr. Finn Sørensen mentioned, much more involved, if I may say, in other areas of this than Danish Refugee Aid. So the problem of viability is not connected either. This is extremely unwise. We in Denmark actually have a tradition of using NGOs very actively and constructively, and I do not think there is any basis for saying that the use of Danish Refugee Aid in the Refugee Board has had negative consequences. Therefore, this can only be seen as what it is, namely as some kind of thanks for eventually to an organization that you don't like. That's the truth of this. A signal will be given that Danish Refugee Aid is not recognised here. It is a private organisation that looks after political interests, some say. No, it's not like that at all. After all, it is an institution that has acted in the field of refugee work in Denmark for many, many years, also globally, and they have a knowledge, an expertise in this area, which you will lose if you implement this bill. In other words, this is politics when it's worse. It is when a new government comes in and, as it were, wishes to express thanks for the latter in relation to a previous government, with the unfortunate result that the whole work of the Refugee Board will be weakened. Of course, we cannot back this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011143016	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no brief comments. And the last rapporteur is Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011143025	Yes, there are several elements in the bill. What is at the heart, and what has been debated here today, is that in future it should not be the case that refugee aid appoints members of the Refugee Board. Let me start by saying that I have the greatest respect for Danish Refugee Aid. I have worked there myself, and they do it excellent around the world, among other things. in Syria. They have also been declared an excellent NGO. So I have the greatest respect for refugee aid and their work, and that is why I think it is important that they are not on the Refugee Board, in other words to maintain their work on asylum seekers and refugees around the world. So we support the bill, which rolls things back to the way they were from 2002 to 2011 and where the Refugee Aid and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs no longer have to appoint anyone to the Refugee Board. So there's support from the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011143134	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011143146	Thank you to the rapporteurs for their reception and also to the debate here today. I have noted that there is a blue majority in favour of this proposal, and it is of course no secret that since 2013, when the name was extended to include a member from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a member nominated by Danish Refugee Aid, we have questioned whether the Refugee Board has the right composition. After the left has gained government power, the government has, of course, carried out a number of tightenings in the field of foreigners, and we have constantly considered whether there is a need for further changes in the area of foreigners. So this also applies to the composition of the Refugee Board. In connection with the discussion before the summer recess of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party on the composition of the Refugee Board, I already indicated at that time that we, on the part of the government this autumn, would table a proposal on precisely the change in composition, as we said before the elections. So it cannot be surprising that this proposal does not actually come about if you assume that what you say before an election is also one of the things you want to do after an election. That, then, is the proposal we are debating here today and, in addition to that, the very composition, the proposal also contains a minor change to the rules in relation to the term of appointment of the President of the Refugee Board. There is no doubt that the Refugee Board plays an important role in the Danish asylum system. The name thus takes the final decisions on who should be granted asylum in this country, and the Refugee Board must therefore act as a guarantor that foreigners who apply for asylum in Denmark receive a thorough and fully legal treatment of their asylum applications. Today, as everyone knows, the name consists of a chairman or vice-chairman who is a judge, a lawyer nominated by the Council of Lawyers, a member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, an employee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and then a member nominated from the Danish Refugee Aid. For the government, it is crucial that the Refugee Board not only functions independently but also appears independently. It is absolutely essential that the independence of the Refugee Board cannot be called into question. Danish Refugee Aid is a private humanitarian organisation that works, among other things. as an interest organisation providing assistance and advice to asylum seekers. In addition, Danish Refugee Aid plays an active role in several of the cases dealt with by the Refugee Board. At the same time, Danish Refugee Aid will then be recommending members to the Refugee Board. In the Government's view, Danish Refugee Aid plays a dual role in relation to the work and activities of the Refugee Board, and the dual role is inappropriate and has helped to cast doubt on the independence of the Refugee Board. That is why we are proposing that Danish Refugee Aid should not be allowed to nominate members of the Refugee Board in future. At the same time, in order to maintain the balance of the Refugee Board, we are proposing that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should not be allowed to nominate members of the Council in future either. The draft law therefore does not indicate that the Government believes that the Refugee Board has taken incorrect decisions since 2013 because Danish Refugee Aid has been able to nominate members of the Board. What the government attaches importance to is the fact that Danish Refugee Aid in relation to the Refugee Board has a dual role to play in calling into question the independence of the Refugee Board, which is why we want to change the composition, so that there will be a chairman or vice-president who is a judge, that there will be a lawyer nominated by the Council of Lawyers, and that there will then be an employee from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. I am pleased that the proposed composition ensures that the Refugee Board will not only function independently in the future but will also appear independent. Under the bill, the Refugee Board will continue to have the status of an independent judicial body whose decisions cannot be brought before the courts. Furthermore, the tasks of the Refugee Board will be maintained and no changes are proposed in the way the proceedings are dealt with at the Board meetings themselves. In several hearings, the question has been raised as to whether another organisation could not nominate members of the Refugee Board if it is not Danish Refugee Aid that should have that task. However, for the government, it is essential, as I said, that the independence of the Refugee Board cannot be called into question. And with the bill, the composition of the Refugee Board will correspond to the composition of the Foreigners' Board today. At the same time, the rules on the composition of the Refugee Board are being rolled back to what was, after all, introduced by the VK government, which was in force for more than 10 years, namely from July 2002 to December 2012. Thus, the Government does not consider it appropriate to allow a different organisation from the Danish Refugee Fund to nominate members of the Board. Finally, I would like to thank again for the support of the blue parties, but also say that frankly, I am somewhat puzzled by the social democrats in this matter. I think that the social democracy is going to cost the rest of the left and that today it must be clear to everyone that when social democracy is pursuing foreign policy, it is such a tactical form of foreign policy. Then it's not because you mean it. You tighten when you think it looks good, but when you really have to decide on some things, you're a windbag in my opinion. We are making this a question which has to be trampled through by some group of experts, but there is not really much to decide on. What the Social Democratic Party has to decide now is perhaps in reality whether social democracy will stand by its policy. That was the policy which was pursued with the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the SF before the elections, and that is what you can see now. Social democracy is going to cost itself around the left when it really matters, and that is exactly what will happen if the Social Democratic Party regains power, as the Social Democratic Party has observed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011143915	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, first it is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011143920	Thank you. Yes, who behaves tactically and who costs himself by the outer wings, I think anyone with social studies at B level can see through all by himself. But what I would like to ask the Minister is this: could we hear from the Danish People's Party that they do not actually think that there should be an appeal, that is, a refugee board, that is also the position of the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011143941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011143943	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011143945	Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011143947	Thank you for that clear answer. I assume that the government, like the Social Democratic Party, is interested in calming the bodies we have in the asylum procedure and that it is therefore not very beneficial that we should now roll these rules around the composition of the Refugee Board back and forth for the third time in 15 years. So my question is this: would it not be natural for the Minister of Foreign Affairs now to invite the Social Democratic Party to real negotiations on the composition of the Refugee Board so that the parties interested in the existence of a refugee board can reach each other across the political centre and that they can do so on a factual and enlightened basis instead of these symbolic political battles in the air?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144036	Well, I might as well say this as it is: I don't think this is symbol politics. This is a matter of having the mention appear not only as an independent board, but also independent when you look at it from the outside. That's what this is all about. And it can't, I think, come as no surprise, sir. Tesfaye that we want to change the composition of the Refugee Board in that we also said so before the elections. So I don't see that there's so much to discuss. In the 10 years when we had a VK government, the composition was also like this, and that's because we think the composition should be this way. Then the Social Democratic Party thought something different at least while they were in government, for then it was the Radicals who decided, as usual in the field of foreigners, when the Social Democrats are in government and now you will be throwing it up to such a big question because you cannot take a stand on your own.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144127	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144130	I have to say that this controversy against the Socialist Group in the European Parliament really shows that it is a matter of tactics on the part of the government. I am pleased that the Minister admits that there is nothing to be done about the actual decisions and that the mention should appear. Is it just that I would like to ask: does it also appear independent when the Ministry of Integration has a person sitting there? I am not saying that it does not seem independent, but does it appear independent in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144213	Yes, I think it is, and I think it is on the assumption that everything else must be said that, when it comes to precisely these matters, expertise in the field of legislation lies in precisely the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and it will, of course, do so, regardless of the colour of government in power. So I think this is the right way to do it, and in that it is also the way the Foreign Affairs Board is composed, I think it is quite legitimate that it should then be the composition in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144246	Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144247	Yeah, well, maybe there's expertise too. But what we're talking about is whether it appears independent. It doesn't. You can have all sorts of arguments for it, but now that you use the argument against Danish Refugee Aid very forcefully, namely that the mention should appear completely objectively, completely independently, it is just that I say that it does not appear quite independently when the Ministry of Integration has a person directly sitting there. Other arguments may also be useful. Expertise? Yeah, that's just not what this is about. It's about whether it's independent.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144322	We simply disagree because I believe that it is completely independent when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing also has a representative there. And there is a huge difference between whether it is a ministry sitting there or whether it is a private humanitarian organisation, which is also a kind of refugee lawyer. The two things simply cannot be compared, sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144348	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144351	Thank you. Yes, there is the significant difference that the officials who sit there are ultimately employed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, while the representatives who sit for Danish Refugee Aid are not employed or in any way employed in Danish Refugee Aid. So it is quite unreasonable to accuse Danish Refugee Aid of being in any way politically dependent or abusive or anything. But it wasn't that much, 'cause we're not gonna get it anymore. I would just like to say to the Minister that I think the Minister was deeply unfair to social democracy. The minister stands here and says that the Social Democrats are going to be taken by the left in this matter. Well, that's not true. I would say that, unfortunately, what the Social Democrats have done today is to send out a clear signal that, after the next elections, when we get a majority with the Socialists, they will not lift a finger to correct the damage that the Minister and her parliamentary basis are in the process of doing to the Refugee Board. That is a clear signal of that. So it would have been more reasonable to criticise the Social Democrats for letting themselves be charged by the Danish People's Party and the Left in this matter, but of course you do not want to, because that is your interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144506	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144508	What I said may well be that it did not appear so clearly that the Socialists are always allowed to spend their way around the left when you come into government, because then the rest of the left is in charge. After all, it is the Radical Left that decides the policy of foreigners. Then, on the socialist side, you try to appear as a tighter party when you are in opposition, and it is worth all honour and respect if you just meant it. But you do not mean it, because once you get into government, you are again pursuing a different immigration policy. That is what we could see with the composition of the Refugee Board after the last elections, because that is where the Radicals and the Enhedslist have cost themselves, and who else has been at work. For that time, there was no question on the part of the Social Democratic Party in terms of composition. No, at the time they simply put forward a bill, and then they said: Danish Refugee Aid must be re-entered the Refugee Board. Apparently, there was no need to investigate at the time, but there is now. It is because you know very well that you will be governed by the Radical Left if you first come into government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144611	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144613	If you knew it so well, you wouldn't have thrown yourself into the exercise you're doing now, because then you'll just get undressed, that is, if you follow the Radical Left and then, in all modesty, also the Enhedslisten and, I think, both the Alternative and the Socialist People's Party, which certainly seems to agree with us. So I just thought it was a little unfair criticism, but one can of course hope that things are going as the Minister says.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144644	I think it has to be said that it is a fact that when the Social Democratic Party is in government, it is the Radicals who decide the policy of foreigners. This has always been the case, and why on earth should it be changed now? At least there's no sign of that with mr. Tesfaye's speech here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144702	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144716	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011144743	Thank you. At Christiansborg we often talk about the fact that we want the municipalities to be more efficient. We want more for the money, there's probably in those words. And there may be many good reasons for that, so that's actually fine. However, it is not always possible for municipalities to make their work more effective, and this is often due to bureaucratic legislation from here. The draft law we are discussing today is something so rare as an attempt to make it easier for both citizens and employees in municipal reality. You have to think carefully when you simplify legislation or want to make everyday life easier in the municipalities. The improvements that can be achieved must be balanced against the legal certainty of citizens. The legislation must be robust and on the side of the citizens so that they do not end up in a pinch. Future powers are a good example. It sounds intuitively true that a future agent is equated with a guardian appointed by the State Administration when it comes to admission to a settlement offer without consent. This allows the citizen himself to designate the person who can take up a municipal position on admission to a residence offer under the Services Act if the citizen himself is not able to do so at the given time, for example. Because of dementia. It strengthens citizens' self-determination and security, and it reduces public bureaucracy. But it is clear, of course, that the powers of the agents of the future must be precisely stated and clearly defined in the legislation. I also believe that, in the light of the consultation answers, the draft law is in line with this. The same considerations apply to the proposed possibility of immediately admitting citizens to accommodation offers before the deadline for appeal has expired if the complainants accede to the municipality's recommendation for relocation. Again, there is good reason to commend the Minister and the Ministry for having clarified and improved the draft law on the basis of the consultation responses received. We need to think very carefully, and I think that has been done with this joint proposal. The bill simplifies a number of procedures in the municipalities, which will benefit both citizens and employees, while preserving citizens' legal certainty. Social democracy can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011145032	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011145041	Thank you for that, President. For us in the Danish People's Party, it makes good sense for future powers; that which gives a proxy holder the right to consent when a person is unable to consent himself. This can help to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy, and it will also strengthen the right of people to self-determination and their sense of self-determination. It can save the citizen, and indeed the place where the citizen is staying, too long to wait. It is the waiting period that goes by while the State Administration is appointed the guardian to look after the interests of the person. It is a little paradoxical, after all, that by appointing a guardian, you try to do something good for the citizen and try to strengthen legal certainty and thus create a miserable situation in which the citizen cannot move forward. That is why we think it is a very good and sensible proposal. The same arguments apply to immediate admission to accommodation offers. It is therefore important to get the citizen out quickly to the care he or she needs rather than to stay in the hospital for several weeks without being able to move or come to a residence offer. Instead, you have to lie and wait while you do not get the care you may need. With this proposal, we must also remedy a temporary solution for the financing of children and young people placed in establishments without legal residence in Denmark, since it was apparently not intended that they should be financed by a tariff, but only financed by objective funding. The draft law states that the funding must be calculated according to the number of young people placed without legal residence between 15 and 17 years of age. However, it is also clear that foreign young people under the age of 15 must be included in objective funding. That's why we find it a little weird that they shouldn't be counted when the price is calculated. This may be due to a misunderstanding, but we will certainly ask follow-up questions on that. In order to avoid local authorities placing themselves alone in order to ensure that they obtain the refund requested, it will be necessary to extend the period of clarification as to whether a 24-hour offer should be made at all. It makes sense. It is not always a good thing to go to a 24-hour institution, and it can be much better to find a municipal offer that makes sense. We may have some doubts as to whether you will have the desired effect if it is that the reimbursement will be cancelled in whole or in part if people find an offer in the municipality, and we would very much like that clarified. In addition to that, we can support the recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011145321	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011145328	Thank you very much, sir. President. Left wants to put man ahead of the system. We want to put an end to procedures and rules that do not benefit citizens, municipalities or the state. That is the reason for this draft law, which, as you know, is a joint legislative proposal which affects various elements of the Council of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. The proposal here amends and simplifies the laws involved, the Services Act, the Legal Code and the Adult Responsibility Act for Children and Young People, so that they become more appropriate, more precise. Most importantly, it will be more beneficial to the citizens they touch on. Then I am really, really pleased to understand that the treatment of the proposal has been handled so effectively that it seems to enjoy very, very broad support in this Chamber. Since the previous two rapporteurs have given such a thorough account of the background to the proposal, I will not repeat it, but, of course, I will say that the Left supports the draft law. Then I'd like to say hello to Mr. Kim. Anders Johansson from the Conservatives, who also support the proposal. And then I have the great pleasure that I didn't think to come right here and now greet from the Radical Left, from Mrs Marianne Jelved, and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011145446	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth, who covered three rapporteurs. It promotes the expedition. Then we move on to Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011145459	It can be said that the Folketing is in the process of making its work more effective. I understand that from the previous rapporteur. I'm gonna have to correct Mr. Kim. Marcus Knuth a bit by saying that there is not really broad support for a bill until you bring Enhedslisten with you. But I can tell you that you have. We think it would be sensible for these powers of the future to be able to apply to parts of the social sphere, for example. in cases where one can move from one's home to, for example, a nursing home or another residence offer, without one's consent being given. This can then be done with such a power of the future. So we think it's a good arrangement. We think it is good that the system can also be extended, so that it can, for example, be extended. Dementive persons who are no longer able to give consent but who therefore need more help than they can get in their own homes. In such cases, it is good that the person you have appointed before the illness started and you trust can also give your consent on your behalf. It is, of course, a source of security for people who suffer from a severe illness. It can make things easier for the family, and it is also reassuring for the relatives in general that such a decision can be implemented without appointing guardians and setting in with the enormous bureaucracy. Another element of the proposal is to authorise the Minister to lay down rules on financing and residence in secure 24-hour institutions for children or young people who have been placed, for example. because they have committed something criminal, but they are not legally resident and therefore do not fall under the provisions of the Services Act. We think the proposed model sounds quite clever, but we are traditionally sceptical about these ministerial powers, because it draws more and more decisions away from the Folketing, so we will ask some questions about that. But overall there is also support from the Enhedslisten page.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011145657	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Danny K. Malkowski, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011145705	Thank you. When you call this a joint bill, you certainly don't exaggerate. The proposal aims to strengthen the powers of the future, to clarify the financing of stays in secured institutions, to extend the period of clarification for refugees in the municipalities, to ensure a smooth transition to accommodation for, among other things, demente, clarify the rules for visitation by Greenlanders and Faroese under the Service Act and make administrative changes regarding the Ankestyrelsen. This is quite a mouthful, but fortunately most of the proposals are relatively undramatic. In the Liberal Alliance, we are particularly enthusiastic about the part relating to strengthening the powers of the future. We see it as an obvious right idea to give people the opportunity to decide who can make decisions on behalf of them if they are no longer able to do so themselves. This also applies, of course, to accommodation offers. When the two-party agreement has agreed that there is a need for a longer period of clarification for refugees' daily offers, we assume that this is the right decision. Two years seems to be seen in here as quite a long time, but these are, of course, some major problems that you face in the municipalities. And you have to have respect for that. In the part dealing with the admission of settlement offers without consent, we see it as a clear improvement that we should not wait for the expiry of a time limit for appeal if all complainants are prepared to accede to the municipal decision on relocation. It should almost give itself. The remaining elements seem to us to be mainly administrative in nature, and on this basis we can support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011145840	We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011145846	It's going well. I'll be brief, because otherwise it'll be a repeat. We also think that this is a collection of good proposals here. It is very much the same proposals that inspired us and that we like, so I would just like to say this with future agents. It fits very well in our book too. If you do not have the opportunity to decide on the future, then a good mate or mate can do so for you. That fits well with the fact that we want to give citizens maximum influence on their own lives. That is the way it sounds: to allow for faster movement of e.g. a demented citizen to a relevant accommodation offer when all claimants, including relatives, agree that moving is a good idea. A move can therefore be carried out immediately because it is not necessary to wait for the four-week period for appeal. It is also right after our book, because it is about people rather than administration. So I really do not want to say anything but that we are also very positive about this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011145950	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011145956	We are really in the process of making things more efficient today. This applies both to the rapporteur and to the legislative proposals. The draft law has to be said to be in a number of different directions. I don't think many of us can disagree with that. It's kind of like mixing pears and bananas. I can understand the need for efficiency and the need for these proposals to be dealt with at once. However, I must also say that if, as a citizen, you want to find out what we are doing in politics in the Danish Parliament, it may be a bit of a challenge to find a head and tail in it with legislative proposals like this. In general terms, however, I would say that we in the SF are in favour of the proposed legislative proposal, which, of course, both simplifies legislation and creates greater legal certainty. In particular, I would like to add a few words to the proposal to equate future administrators with a guardian appointed by the State Administration with regard to admission to accommodation offers without consent under Article 129 (1) of the Services Act. 2. Here we basically agree that it will give the citizen increased opportunities for participation in his own life situation and simplify the process up to the actual move. However, as is also mentioned in the consultation answers, it must be conditional on the citizen being able to change the content of the powers of the future as long as he or she is able to carry out his or her own affairs. So in those words, we are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011150137	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011150146	Oh, my God. Well, the parliamentary year has only just begun, but I believe that this bill has set a record in efficiency. It has done so thanks to a bunch of rapporteurs who have indicated that they support the bill and agree with it, and thank you for it. I would like to say to the SF rapporteur that it is right to debate whether it is wise to put together a lot of elements in such a draft law, but that is precisely why we have both the first, second and third readings. In particular, at first reading, the rapporteurs have in fact, each in its own way, explained what the package contains here. So I hope that those citizens who find it difficult to understand it simply by reading the bill may be able to follow the first reading here and become aware of what it is actually that we are simplifying. It is true that this is a legislative proposal which contains a number of different changes to social legislation in general. These are not violent changes as such, but precisely changes that matter to the individual. It is particularly important that, with the amendments proposed here, we create the possibility for the individual citizen to decide who is to be given the consent that he may be moved to a residence offer if, in other words, one day he can no longer consent himself, for example. Because of dementia. Several of the rapporteurs have also emphasised this is a very important element and a good initiative. With the bill, we would also like to take better care of demented citizens and others in general who are not in a position to give an informed consent. That is why we will also provide for the possibility of moving more quickly to a relevant accommodation offer when all complainants, including the relatives, agree that the move is the right one. So in this way the citizen in question avoids having to wait for four weeks for no reason for the deadline for appeal to be completed. I would just like to conclude by saying that I am, of course, available to answer any questions that may arise, among other things. from the Enhedslisten and from the committee as a whole, and then I will provide them with answers during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011150407	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011150422	The debate is open. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011150438	Thank you. We all know how annoying and how time-consuming it is if we lose our credit cards if we lose our driver's license. For most people, thank God it's just a question of ordering a new one and then waiting for you to get it done. However, some people and unfortunately more and more people experience direct identity theft if they, for example, experience direct identity theft. lose their dance cards or driver's license or passport. If you ask the Consumer Council Think, they can actually say that up to 50,000 Danes a year experience attempts at or carried out identity theft, and that figure only seems to increase. So these are criminals who abuse this personal information for example. to borrow or buy goods on credit and thus commit fraud. Of course, most people can understand how insulting it must be for the victims, who in this way are left with a large number of debt certificates in the mailbox and, above all, the uncertainty about which information the criminal has otherwise forced himself to access. Unfortunately, this problem is on the rise. The previous government made it possible to simply ask for a whole new social security number if such a social security number had been grossly misused. This bill is another step, but also, I think, a step which may prove to have a good effect in the fight against this kind of identity theft. The proposal is basically that the CPR will be able to make contact and warn against any future credit in its own name if you are concerned that a lost passport or lost driving licence or something like that can or will be misused. This means that those who make a living from granting loans and credit may then have the opportunity to pay extra attention to the fact that no loans or credit should be granted immediately to the persons who have it here. For us Socialists, it is particularly important that this is something that can be chosen, also in the light of the consultation answers that have come, where most people agree, but where there have also been some raised fingers. What we are aware of is that this is something we can choose to use. If you don't want to, just don't do it. But it is an opportunity to give citizens if they fear that their personal information may be used for this kind of theft. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011150753	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011150800	Thank you for that, President. In the Danish People's Party, we are also extremely pleased that we are now putting another tool in the toolbox on identity theft, i.e. if a citizen has lost his or her passport, driving licence or other personal document or maybe his or her identity has been misused on the Internet via online trading and wants to draw the attention of creditors that they should not immediately grant loans or credit to persons who pretend to be the person concerned. However, the citizen must, through the digital self-service provided by the municipality of residence and, by means of his NemID, indicate whether he wants labelling. And for the Danish People's Party, it is incredibly important that it is further clarified that whether you want to indicate a label or a label should cease, and if you do not have the ability or the ability to use NemID and go online, you can always get help from citizens' service or anything else. A mark in the CPR register must not harm the citizen so that the citizen is excluded from making a purchase or obtaining a loan because his or her identity has been attempted to be stolen. The purpose of the marking must be to ensure that creditors are able to make sure that the person concerned is the right person. Similarly, the citizen must not be placed at a disadvantage if he or she does not want a mark on the CPR register, even if the citizen's identity has been tried to be stolen, and must not be placed at a disadvantage in any compensation proceedings because he or she has opted out of a label in the CPR register. It is important to maintain the voluntary nature of the legislative proposal, thereby maintaining the same legal certainty for the citizen who does not want labelling as for the citizen who has approved a label in the CPR register. Citizens who, for a given period of time, have wanted to have a label in the CPR register and subsequently want to have the label removed should not continue to be confronted with a label which is no longer active when they wish to enter into a trade or borrow a loan. The Danish People's Party believes that we should do what we can to stop identity theft, and this proposal can be one of the tools. But it can't be alone. As the previous rapporteur mentioned, we have legislation where it is possible to give citizens a completely new social security number, and I think that legislation is well tied up with this. And perhaps there should be a follow-up to see how this legislation is playing with it here. The Danish People's Party is in favour of the bill and looks forward to further committee reading with the opportunity to get answers to any further questions we might have on the proposal. But we are very positive about it and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011151105	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011151112	We live in a modern world in very, very fast development, so of course we must politically strengthen our efforts against identity theft, and in the case of this proposal we want to reduce the ability of ID thieves to buy goods or borrow loans in the name of others. It is therefore a question of credit protection, and it is of benefit both to private Danes, such as Denmark. It could be so unfortunate to have their Dankort or wallet stolen, and for the Danish business community, as you know, it is the shops that are liable for losses if they are exposed to this type of crime. The former rapporteurs have described the draft law quite well, so I will be brief and say that on this basis, of course, the Left supports the bill. I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011151206	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011151222	Thank you. The Enhedslisten would also like to join the series of parties that are in favour of this, but we would just like to add a few comments on things that we would also like to continue working on in the discussion of the bill. We are very much in agreement with, among other things. IT-Politics Association, which says that the solution to identity theft involves, first and foremost, companies taking their responsibility to confirm the identity of a person to whom they lend loans, much more seriously. The requirements for the creditor's control should be tightened up. The Enhedslisten is also concerned that, despite requests in several hearings, the Minister will not register directly that this new opportunity to have a warning registered should not mean that a citizen's liability in subsequent claims will be changed because the person has not used the scheme. This must be truly voluntary, and it must not mean that companies that provide credit to a criminal who pretends to be another criminal, that is, a criminal who has committed an identity theft, can pass on responsibility to the citizen who has had his identity stolen, simply because he has not used this opportunity for a flag. We are going to ask some questions about this so that we can get it completely straightened out. However, I would also like to say here that we are very concerned that this will have the opposite effect, where more citizens can suddenly be left with a bill for a criminal act that others have made on a bill that they would not be holding today. And we will consider an amendment if the Minister cannot be more clear and refuse to change the assessment of liability. Finally, I would like to point out that we find it understandable that, in the light of the consultations, the Minister has changed the comments so that it is clear that marking is not a matter of credit rating but of identity checks. However, it is quite true, as the Council of Social Affairs Ministers writes, that there has been a need for years for people affected by high debt, poor economy and poor ability to manage money, and who are particularly vulnerable, to be able to indicate such a mark. And frankly, it is a little incredible that when it comes to resourceful people who have been exposed to crime, the government is moving quickly, but vulnerable citizens in a debt trap are doing nothing for. In the Enhedslisten, we will be tabling an amendment to introduce two markings, one such as the one proposed by the government, and one which can mark a poor credit rating, as proposed by the Social Affairs Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011151500	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Danny K. Malkowski, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011151509	Thank you. It is in everyone's interest to provide as effective a protection against identity abuse as possible. To allow a mark to be inserted into the CPR if one considers that one is in danger of being exposed to identity abuse is a simple and flexible solution. The Finance Council points out that many Danes have their NemID in their wallet and therefore often lose NemID in the situation where they need to protect themselves against identity abuse. At least I can recognize that description. I therefore think it is appropriate to clarify during the legislative procedure whether it is possible to place the mark without NemID without creating excessive bureaucratic burdens. But the Liberal Alliance can in any case support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011151555	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011151615	Thank you. In the alternative, we have some things that we would have liked to change before we fully support this proposal. It may well be, it is a good idea that you can mark in the CPR if you have been subjected to identity theft or lost your passport. Of course, you can benefit quickly. But, of course, you can ask whether this should be necessary. Isn't that a symptom treatment? Can't we do this so hard with identity theft in some way that this isn't gonna be necessary? It is certainly a consideration that we will make in the Alternative whether you like to stamp it or say that then you are so free to do more about it. Something else is that this credit rating thing must at least not be mixed up in it in any way whatsoever. That, sir. Finn Sørensen quoted the Council of Social Affairs Ministers for, in view of the fact that it would be nice to be able to make such a comment on his CPR number, if you have poor credit ratings, is also an interesting idea, but it is very, very important that those who have to read it here can see what is what. Then it is also very important, regardless of how it is designed here, that it should not be the case that companies and credit institutions can do such a broad scan of citizens with remarks, but that it is one specific case where one can do so with one specific citizen and that the citizen is told that it has been done. So there are some things we are a little in the process of in the Alternative, where we just need to discuss and clarify a little more in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011151752	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011151757	The Radical Left also thinks that with this bill the government will give itself and the Danes a tool against identity theft, which will probably not make it disappear, but which is excellent. Like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Finn Sørensen that the big challenge is that there are companies that give credit or sell a mobile phone alone on the CPR number. We think that, as Enhedslisten said, this is a challenge that has been actually tried over many years to be in dialogue with business about, in relation to whether or not we could put anything more on. But this bill allows a citizen to report to a register that you will not have given credit on your CPR number alone. Of course, it provides an opportunity for some to avoid getting credit, if you would rather not be tempted to take a loan, but it also provides an opportunity for people who have been stolen their CPR number in one or one form, to say that it should not be granted on the basis of. That is good and then we call on the government to continue dialogue with business to be a little tighter in the way you give credit or sell things.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011151923	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011151931	Overall, in the SF, we agree with the intention of the government with this proposal, which seeks to improve efforts to prevent identity abuses in credit and borrowing purchases. It is a central and important means and, as other rapporteurs have also said, this is not the only means to prevent it from being abused, but it is an important way of preventing it. Generally speaking, we see the proposed digital scheme, in which it is to be made possible for a citizen who is 15 years old to put a mark in the Central Personal Register that he or she wants to warn against credit in his or her name as a fine move. However, as legislators, we are also, by their very nature, obliged to deal with the possible negative consequences of a legislative proposal. In particular, the legal position of the citizen should be in focus when we discuss in committee how we can best organise this digital marking solution. There are several elements that we in the SF think it is important to relate to. One of those elements specifically deals with the very cause of the citizen's warning mark. It may be problematic that citizens cannot, when they have to mark that they want to warn against credit, describe in the digital self-service what the reason for the selection is. It is therefore possible that a citizen who has been robbed and who has made a mark to avoid identity theft should be treated as a citizen who, for reasons of private economics, has made a mark in order to prevent his or her being protected against debt. Such a distinction cannot be taken into account by the system, as described in the draft law, and there are also several organisations, including the Consumer Council Think, Finance and Leasing and the Crime Prevention Council, which have expressed concern about this in their hearing response. So to find a solution where you have the opportunity to indicate what the reason for the selection is, we will back up in the SF. Another element which should also be the focus of the committee's proceedings is the legal status of the citizen in the event that he has not used the marking option in the Central Register of Persons, and whether any non-registration in the CPR may thereby have a negative impact on the citizen's legal position. Given that the proposed scheme is a voluntary scheme in which citizens have to decide for themselves whether they want to use the option of marking, and companies have to decide for themselves whether they want to use the option of checking whether it is marked, then there are some grey areas that we should be aware of. For example: the consumer Ombudsman has expressed concern about this in his hearing and points out that it is not clear from the draft law whether it can harm the citizen if the citizen has not availed himself of the possibility of inserting a mark into the CPR. We think that this should be clarified and clarified even more. As I said, we are in favour of the proposal, but at the same time look forward to further discussion of the details of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011152248	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011152300	Thank you to the series of rapporteurs. I will start by signing off on the reception given to the draft law and on the constructive statements that have been made in this Chamber. To put it simply, the aim of the draft law is to provide citizens and, of course, businesses with a tool, and this is a voluntary scheme. Therefore, I would actually like to start with both Enhedslisten's and SF's concerns about whether, if you as a citizen do not make a credit mark, it will have negative consequences in the case where someone else has abused your CPR number. I would like to make it clear that this is a voluntary scheme, so that the fact that registration has not been made will not be taken into account in a specific case. There the situation will be as it is today. But, of course, I will be available to answer further questions. I also think it's important to comment on the fact that both Enhedslisten and SF had comments on whether you should have more types of markings. To me, it's important that we do this in a simple way. It has also been mentioned in the past that, as a citizen who wants to protect himself from perhaps falling into a loan trap, if you take a quick loan and do not really have the ability to pay for it, you can protect yourself. You can make this credit mark, so to speak. My view is that it does not improve the possibilities of saying that it is because you want to protect yourself from debt or whether you want to protect yourself because you have been subjected to identity theft. In my view, it is important that we have a simple system, a simple mark, and what the person's justification is for making this credit mark, I think the credit mark is subordinate to that, because it serves broadly the same purpose in relation to this credit protection. But, of course, I will be available for further questions during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011152510	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011152524	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011152543	Thank you. Let us start by stating quite clearly: Social democracy is opposed to the government's job reform phase I; we are against the ceiling on cash benefits; we are against the 225-hour rule. This bill is to me an expression of the fact that one has been just busy enough to implement the government's cash aid ceiling. Several consultation responses also point to the same thing, among others. the hearing response from the Legal Policy Association. I am not going to go down in the technique of the individual groups here, because this bill is very technical. At the outset, it may be positive to exclude a number of people in order to be affected by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, but at the same time the proposal also extends the circle of household members for people under 18 years of age. The Minister considers that there will be no economic consequences for the state. Yes, it may be, but there will be cash aid recipients who can feel it in their pockets if this bill is passed. In relation to the part of the bill which deals with reimbursement and pregnancy-related sickness absence, it seems to us immediately to be very sensible. On the part of the Social Democrats, we would like to call for the bill to be split into two so that we can deal with the two parts separately. One part is about reimbursement proposals as well as those parts of the bill which exempt the person group from being affected by the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule. We Social Democrats would like to help improve this at any time for some of the groups that are hit really hard by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, if possible. The government's cash aid ceiling and 225-hour rule will mean that thousands of Danes belonging to some of the weakest groups in Denmark will have less to live for. Economic incentives can work, but only if you have the opportunity to respond to them. The vast majority of people affected by the ceiling on cash benefits and the people affected by the 225-hour rule have not. For the Social Democratic Party there are special considerations in relation to children in Denmark who will now have even more difficulty breaking with the social legacy of being the child of a cash aid recipient because they will have even less to live for. This bill does not in any way alter the fact that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule hit hard in some of the weakest groups in Denmark and their children. That is why the Social Democratic Party does not support the bill unless it can be divided. We will, of course, follow this up later with the Minister when the Minister comes to the floor, but also later in the work of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011152826	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line with Mr Beyer de Ryke. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011152842	Thank you for that, President. This bill is impact fixes for bugs that have occurred some regrettable bugs. There I would agree with the previous rapporteur that it is a bit awkward that we should stand here and correct some mistakes • something that did not just come in from the beginning. It is always a matter of regret, and I agree with the previous rapporteur that this is a very bad thing. There should have been time to get everything in place so that there was no change. But there are also some of the changes that can be positive. This applies, among other things, to: This means that if in a household there are young people under the age of 18 who receive integration benefit or educational assistance, then with this change they can receive their share of housing insurance. After all, it is positive that it is distributed among household members who have incomes. So there's also a little positive in it. When we look at the other elements that are in it, we must also say that, as far as most of them are concerned, it is in the positive direction that there are changes taking place as we see it at the moment. This also applies to the fact that a person covered by the 225-hour rule will be granted an extension of the period of 12 months in which the person must meet the requirement of 225 hours of ordinary and unaided work, with periods during which the person receives support for the care of disabled child, disabled adult or dying close relatives or under the law on entitlement to leave and maternity benefit for the care of seriously ill child and such. It is a good thing that it comes in, that it is corrected and not completely forgotten. Then there's the most important thing in this proposal, which I actually think it is, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is referring to wanting to split up because otherwise I might not be fully aware of what it is that you want to split up, namely this with reimbursement to employers if they do not get reported in time, i.e. that you correct the error made under the previous government in 2012, which still paid refunds to employers who did not report sick leave before maternity in time. That is what is stated here: it was an error, i.e. an unintentional repeal in 2012 under the previous government. I guess that's what Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says the Social Democracy will help change here. But it may be that there is a more detailed explanation for it when the minister is up here, that is to say, what it is in this bill that you have to split up. Because if that is the part that needs to be split up, I can say that the Danish People's Party will not oppose a division of that point into a separate bill because it has nothing to do with the law on cash benefits. However, the Danish People's Party supports this bill, as we are also in the agreement on the cash aid ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153155	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153158	Thank you. There was something I couldn't really get to hang out with, yes, there was probably a lot of it in the rapporteur's speech. This is what should now be an advantage for young people under the age of 18 to be included in the distribution of the ceiling. It is possible that in some families it may be an advantage, but it does appear that it is not easy to see through, but if you read the text very carefully and you also look at the Minister's speech, then it is clear that it will mean that some families get less money than they do today. And then Mr. Bent Bøgsted now suddenly takes a very humane and sympathetic view of this, that it is positive that cash aid recipients have the opportunity to maintain their cash benefits more than they had with the shameful legislation that the rapporteur helped to implement, so I do not understand why the rapporteur says that this rule that young people under the age of 18 should also be included in the calculation is a positive change.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153303	But it is because in the agreement it is the case that when you look at a family where there are more members, it may be a man, it may be a wife, it may be children who have income next to it, it is the case that the housing insurance is distributed among the members who are in the household who have an income, and that means that only the part of the housing insurance that concerns those who are on cash benefits is affected. And if it is distributed on several, there are also more who share that space up to the ceiling. That's how I interpret it. We can, of course, make it clear to the Minister whether it is a correct interpretation of it, but I do not see how else it should be understood. It is not the case that if young people under the age of 18 are counted on, they can receive a share of the housing allowance. Everything else should be of benefit to the family. But we can clarify that with the Minister. We can get the Minister to explain whether that is wrong, I cannot say it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153418	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153420	If what the rapporteur said there was true, it is just strange that there is a saving out of exactly that part of the legislative proposal, and we cannot see exactly how big it is. After all, the draft law is completely opaque, because it is not sketched out which family types are being affected and how much they are being affected, because according to the Minister's speech there is a saving on that point, and how would there be a saving if it was an advantage for everyone? No, what this may mean is that people under the age of 18 will be covered by the ceiling on cash benefits. That is the real problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153504	I mean, if I look at the financial calculations and look at where the savings are, it says it's on maternity benefits. I do not see that there should be savings on anything else. It's not in the financial calculations for the bill. When I look through it, I do not see that there are any savings other than those on maternity benefits, just as immediately. I can't. I can't figure it out if there is. When you look at the calculations in the bill, it says nothing but maternity benefits. It is the employer who gets rid of some more money. But we can clarify that by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153547	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153549	No, but we can clarify that now, because there is a reason why we do not want to be involved. That's because there's some deterioration in this bill. I know that the change can lead to the negative effect that people under the age of 18 will be covered by the ceiling on cash benefits, thus losing some housing insurance. If we look at the speech from the Minister of Employment, we can see that it says: "This group of people is therefore less than 18 years of age and will thus be placed at a financial disadvantage compared to the rules adopted, i.e. the rules adopted by the Danish People's Party, which will take effect on 1 October 2016. In other words, we have a group under the age of 18, which is losing out on this bill, and Mr. Bent Bøgsted then admits that this is a deterioration for that group.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153633	I consider that the draft law states that, where there is an integration benefit, educational assistance or housing benefit in the household under 18 years of age, the housing allowance is also distributed in proportion to that person. In any case, when the housing subsidy is distributed, there must be more space below the ceiling, instead of only one person bearing the entire housing subsidy. That's how I interpret it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153702	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153704	I have just another deterioration: according to the proposal, the municipality is also required to decide whether married or separated persons who do not live with the spouse at joint residence are cohabitants or single persons in relation to the ceiling on cash benefits. This will lead to a reduction in housing security or support. Is that positive, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153725	I have not said that everything in this is positive. But these are consequences. If there are a couple who are married who are trying to say that they are not living together, it is the municipalities that must check what it looks like. We can't control that in here, that's how it looks with the relationship they have. It is up to the municipality to check whether they have a real relationship and whether they are married and whether they have just pro forma moved apart. I don't want to accuse anyone of that. It is up to the municipalities to find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153803	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153815	Thank you. L 4 which we are discussing here concerns, overall, the amendment of the Act on Active Social Policy and the Law on Maternity. As I have said, these are two elements which, overall, adjust and clarify already existing legislation. It has come about after a thorough dialogue with the municipalities, Payout Denmark and the National Association of Municipalities. So we have found the need to make small clarifications, and that is what the draft law is basically about. These are changes of a technical nature, which must ensure that the rules on the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule can have the desired effect, while at the same time ensuring that similar groups of people receive uniform treatment. The second element concerns the law on maternity leave. Here it is proposed to reinstate a legal basis which, by mistake, was repealed in 2012. Home leave meant that if the employer notified pregnancy-related absences too late, the employer lost the right to reimbursement. That legal basis has to go back into legislation, and it will if we end up adopting this legislative proposal. So, all in all, this bill is an expression of clarification and adjustment where it is needed, and the Left supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153940	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011153940-2	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. It sounds like we need to be clear what this bill has to do with consequences on two very important points. One is that the recipients of cash benefits under the age of 18 are to be included in the calculation of the household's housing support, and the Minister writes in the submission: "This group of persons, i.e. those under the age of 18, will thus be placed at a financial disadvantage compared to the agreed rules, which will take effect from 1 October 2016. That is why this part of the legislative proposal should not have retroactive effect. So I would like the rapporteur to confirm that there is therefore a group of people who are disadvantaged in this amendment than they are today with the rules that apply now. If there is any factual explanation for this, I would also like to hear it. Leif Lahn Jensen had the impression that there is a requirement for the municipalities to make decisions about cohabitation in cases where a married person does not live with his or her spouse. Bent Bøgsted talked about that is not what the bill says but lives with someone else, and that will mean that more will be placed at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011154056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011154057	It is about the fact that if there are special situations, the citizens who are in such situations must be treated in the same way as, what should you say, other citizens, so we are the same before the law. And it is true that there are citizens under the age of 18 who are in the cash benefits system and who, with this change of law, will be disadvantaged than they are at present. That's why it won't come into force until later. In relation to married and unmarried and roommates, I believe that there will not be groups here that are disadvantaged, but that they will all be better off.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011154143	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011154143-2	Thanks for confirming the first one. I don't understand the other thing. A requirement for municipalities to decide on cohabitation in the situation we are talking about here will inevitably lead to more people coming into the target group to be set off against cash benefits, because they are now required to decide on cohabitation in situations where they have a married person who does not live with their spouse but lives with another person. So it must necessarily mean that there are more who are being set off.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011154215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011154216	I think we need some committee procedure to clarify whether they will be disadvantaged or better. For what this is all about is getting a uniform practice to apply to family allowances; that is what the bill says and which it is about. So I think that this is primarily about ensuring a uniform practice, and then the work of the committee will have to clarify whether there are groups of people who are disadvantaged or better here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011154255	I do not think we have any more comments. Neither do we. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011154313	Thank you very much, President. I would like to take note of what the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party began by saying that some regrettable mistakes had apparently been made when the bill on cash benefits and 225-hour rule were adopted. I would like to thank you for the concession which, of course, indicates what we are several rapporteurs in the opposition. I think it has all been said by everyone, namely that it is something f... hurry and cargo, which has been done with the legislation, where the municipalities have also been placed in a very difficult situation. So it is always something that at least one of the rapporteurs who is the architects of the bill recognises that something has probably gone quite fast here. When I first read it through, I was actually somewhat surprised, because it is true that on five or six points there are in fact small improvements which are of great importance to the people who can be covered by them, because they are people who do not have very much money in advance and who are already deeply frustrated and deeply unhappy about the situation they are in with the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule. The National Association of Housing Companies says that 13,000 families are in danger of either having to move out of their homes or being thrown out of it directly because they cannot pay the rent according to the new rules that have been introduced. So there you could be a little pleasantly surprised. The changes proposed here are no one at all to correct the huge abuse that has been committed by this legislation, to poor people, to people who are unemployed, to the innocence of the unemployed, to those who are innocuously ill, to those who suffer from disability or chronic suffering. But you're gonna be happy with the government we have. So, even the slightest little sign that the air can be lightened a little for the cliffed sheep, we will of course be happy about that, and we would like to support that. But, as usual, when it comes to something from the bourgeois wing and from a Left Government, you should have the big magnification, and especially with this bill, which is so intricately written that we have had to spend a lot of hours up in our secretariat to find out what it really is about. So we came to the conclusion that there are some nasty thistles in this bill. You have already been mentioned and it has been clarified that they are there, although the rapporteur of the Left was a little uncertain as to what one of them means economically. That is, of course, what makes us have to make the same announcement as the Social Democrat rapporteur and say that we cannot support the legislative proposal in the form it has here. The two deteriorations in it should be tampered with. Then I would like to say to the Minister, who has tabled the draft law, and to the rapporteurs who support it, that I find it very regrettable that a legislative proposal is being put forward which is so tricky in legal terms, without making a statement on how specific people are or should we put it in a different way with the language we use here: different family types are affected/not affected or better, because then it is something easier to decide. We shall then have to ask about this in the legislative procedure. However, we have at least been made clear in the Minister's speech and confirmed here by the rapporteur on the Left that the rule that young people under the age of 18 should also be included in setting the ceiling would mean that a number of families would be placed at a disadvantage. They probably are not the ones who already have an awful lot of money, especially if there are children living at home up to 18 years old. So that's pretty much enough. We think that there is ample deterioration in the legislation that has been put in place here, on the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule for integration benefits, which I should perhaps mention, because I believe that the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party just mentioned that benefit. We'll keep that in mind all the time. There's plenty of deterioration in it. We don't need any more. So we support the fact that the bill will be split up or that the deterioration will be withdrawn, which of course would also be fine, but we may not have as much hope of that as possible so that we can adopt the small improvements that lie in it as widely as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011154804	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Danny K. Malkowski, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011154826	Thank you. This proposal, L 4, seeks to correct a number of shortcomings, as has already been mentioned, in the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. In a number of smaller areas, the rules play poorly with the rules on integration performance. As a consequence, a number of smaller groups of people will be hit in a relatively harsh way. There are a number of specific cases, for example: have not thought carefully enough about the financial consequences of the 225-hour rule for a marriage between a recipient of cash benefits and a recipient of integration benefit. Unfortunately, when the proposal seeks to change the legal position of the persons concerned with retroactive effect, it shows that the legislative process on job reform 1 has not been good enough and thorough enough. It has not been anyone's intention that the people affected should be hit so hard. But it is at least positive that we can ensure that their conditions are in line with the political agreement. The interaction problems identified by this bill do not arise directly from the agreement on job reform 1 and the Liberal Alliance can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011154928	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011154935	I would like to start by quoting the Social Deprived Council, which writes in its hearing reply: the Council has no comment on the specific proposed adjustments to the rules on the cash benefits ceiling, integration allowance, etc., although the Council cannot fail to note that it is striking that there is already a need for so many adjustments in the new set of rules. When such intrusive reforms are carried out, at least inappropriate imbalances and other unfortunate consequences should be taken into account from the outset. As far as the bill itself is concerned, the alternative is totally opposed to the ceiling on cash benefits. We do not understand why the unemployed, many of whom are sick, should be chased around for work that is barely there. It has been known from the outset that it would only bring people into work marginally. So we've been trying to ask, what's really the point of this cash aid ceiling? We asked the President of the Conservatives the other day, and we were told that it was a question of fairness. We do not understand that answer. As far as this matter is concerned, it is true that there are some improvements. I do not think that these are merely corrections, but there are some improvements, for example. the beneficiaries of the integration allowance are exempted from the ceiling on cash benefits or persons receiving integration benefit who have reached the retirement age and who are unable to obtain a social pension under the income rules alone are exempt from the ceiling on cash benefits. That way, there are some good things in it. However, our gaze and our smile also take note of the things that several of the rapporteurs before me have mentioned, for example. the fact that household members under the age of 18 can be included in the calculation of the cash benefits ceiling. I should not rule out the fact that Bent Bøgsted is right in that it may be good for some, but I am at least fairly sure that it is bad for some others too. And under no circumstances will we be voting for further deterioration in the conditions of poor families because of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. We are also suspicious of the fact that the municipality now has to assess whether married persons who do not live with the spouse are single or cohabiting. So, if you are married and do not live with your spouse but live with someone else, do you go in and live together and reduce your housing support? So there are two huge knots that we would like to have taken out before we could ever dream of helping to improve the situation for the others mentioned in the proposal. With regard to the issue of stricter rules for employers for reporting sick leave in connection with pregnancy, I do not understand why this legislation should be applied, but if it were taken out and dealt with separately, as it really should be, then we would not at all deny that we could take a positive view of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011155240	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011155243	Thank you. Let me take up the thread of the previous rapporteurs. As the Socialist rapporteur, I also say very clearly: in the Radical Left, we are opposed to the poverty benefits; all of us are against the ceiling on cash benefits; the 225-hour rule; and the so-called integration benefit, which brings so many families and so many children into poverty. Making children poor brings nothing good. This bill then contains, as has been discussed, a number of technical changes mainly to government legislation on poverty benefits, and then there is this part on maternity law, which is a collection and which seems to have just been put in here for technical reasons. I would say, as the rapporteur of the alternative, that if we could start by peeling it off and then take it for ourselves, we in the Radical Left are also in favour of that part. Several of the elements of this, and indeed also of a number of the technical changes to the ceiling on cash benefits and poverty benefits, make some of the people affected by poverty benefits a little better. This applies if more than one household member is included. We are in favour of those parts, because after all, it is a little soft on a law that we are otherwise opposed to. However, there are a number of other elements which have been raised by several of the rapporteurs and which seem to me to be taking the opposite direction. Like the former rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, I have also understood the part relating to young people under 18 who are included in the calculation of housing aid because they are included under the ceiling on cash benefits, and so, so to speak, I have at least seen the smaller space below the ceiling. And these are children here. Of course, we are against this. If the Minister is sympathetic, he will split up the bill so that we can vote for the parts that the government itself wishes to soften and which the government explains in the comments as real errors in the legislation. We would like to help the government to soften that, even if we are against the law itself. Of course, we saw that the government completely dropped the deterioration that at least comes with this bill so that we could vote for the technical improvements together. However, I would also like to listen very carefully to the Minister's interpretation, as they have done in the past, in order to clarify the so-called clarifications, which are not as clear to many of us and which this draft law is intended to introduce.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011155542	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011155546	I am surprised to hear such violent rhetoric from the Radical Left talking about poverty benefits and people being sent out into poverty benefits, etc. Normally the Radical Left is considered to be an economically slightly more right-wing party than the rest of the so-called red bloc. So I would like to hear this in relation to the ceiling on cash benefits: how much does the Radical Left think the cash aid should be on? I mean, if you, for example... is a single mother with two children and you are on cash benefits, then you get paid approx. 17,000 kroner. including housing insurance and child benefit per month after tax. This does not include places for child care, but only what is paid. Is it far too little according to the Radical Left and how much more should it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011155639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011155641	Well, I'd like to bid Mr. Rasmus Jarlov welcome to the debate. Now, of course, the rapporteur has missed the debate so far, which has been about L 4 and clarifications in relation to the government's ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit. We are against them in the Radical Left. We would rather it all be abolished. We are opposed to children entering poverty, and that is what we are concerned with. I mean, no people get into work by getting into poverty. There are other challenges for these people, and they are the ones we need to address so that they can get to work. I am not so concerned with the actual figure in kroner and ear. I am concerned that people are going to work and that the best effort is being made to ensure that this happens. And in the Radical Left, we do not think that children in poverty are the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011155736	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011155738	For the rapporteur's information, I have heard all the speeches on my television in my office, so I have heard the debate. Don't worry. And by the way, thank you for your concern. But I do not understand how you cannot be concerned about the amount of cash benefits paid, because that is what this is all about. This isn't about standing on the platform and firing pussies. It is about deciding how high the cash aid should be, and there I would like to hear the Radical Left's offer of it. But instead, you fire off such a free round and say it's too little, and you don't want to tell yourself how tall you think the cash aid should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011155812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011155814	Well, this is a discussion of some technical clarifications to a bill that introduced a ceiling on cash benefits. In the Radical Left, we believe that cash aid should be at the level at which it was before this government introduced a ceiling, and we believe that, most of all, because this ceiling has nothing to do with plunder, it has to do with children who come into poverty. I am aware that we have different views on what that means, but for me it is on the poverty line defined by the previous government. And I think that is very serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011155849	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011155904	The legislative proposal before us is, to put it mildly, a little unclear. It was also said that the draft law is merely technical in nature. Perhaps one would have liked the technology to have spread to the way it was presented. I would like to admit that there are improvements to this bill in relation to the original law, which is wonderful, but these are small improvements to an anti-social law. So if these technical alignments just went in a positive direction, there would be no problems with the SF. Unfortunately, however, this so-called technical adaptation also affects people who end up being disadvantaged. As we have said, it is about the members of the household who are under the age of 18 and who are included in the calculations, and it is about the duvet-lifting of the municipalities. I think it would be a good thing if we could divide up the legislative proposal so that we can vote in favour of those things which, after all, are quite small, but which nevertheless go in a positive direction in relation to the situation of the citizens, and so that we can vote against the things that weaken it. If that does not happen, the SF will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011160030	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011160039	The Conservative People's Party can support the bill. We consider it mostly a consequence of the cash aid reform that we made together with the other bourgeois parties a small year ago in the autumn. I think that the ceiling on cash benefits that we have introduced is extremely reasonable. I think that this is one of the better reforms we have made in the assembly where we have introduced the basic principle that when you are on cash benefits, you should have no more than approx. 80% of what you get when you're in a low-paid contract-covered job. It is fair that there is a little more for people who work than there is for people who are on cash benefits. We also believe that the amount of cash aid available today is extremely reasonable. I mentioned earlier what a mother with two children can get when you add up all benefits, and that is approx. 17,000 kroner. each month. It is not a very, very low amount, it is certainly a subsidy that should be able to cope with. That is why, of course, we are still absent from the reform that we have undertaken, and we believe that the clarifications that are included in this legislative proposal can also be supported. I do not want to go into a long discussion as to whether these things should have been corrected immediately when the reform was carried out, I do not have enough insight to be able to comment on that, and that is perhaps not really the most important thing here either. The most important thing is that we get things right.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011160225	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next person to speak is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011160237	Thank you. Today we have examined L 4, draft law amending the Act on Active Social Policy and the Law on Maternity. The bill contains clarifications to the Bill on Job Reform Phase I and therefore needs to be seen in the context of this, so that the decision on a cash assistance system where it pays to work • Job Reform Phase I is implemented according to the intention of the agreement in its entirety. In addition, the draft law contains a proposal to reinstate a legal basis in the maternity law, which was unintentionally repealed. And it is important that we now get this right. The need for changes and clarifications in the Act on Active Social Policy has been identified in the implementation phase following the adoption of the Act, where among other things: has been workshops with Payout Denmark and the National Association of Local Authorities in connection with their development of IT support. These are clarifications of circumstances which only occur in very, very special situations. However, despite the fact that these are special situations, citizens who are in such a situation must be treated in the same way as other citizens. For example: ensure that invalidity benefits are treated in the same way, regardless of whether they receive rehabilitation benefits or integration benefits during rehabilitation. Of course, I think this is fair and in line with our intentions • just as I also think it is reasonable to equate cash benefits recipients under 18 years of age with cash benefits recipients over 18 years of age when they are in quite similar situations. And that is what we are ensuring with this bill. The content of the bill is adjustments for small groups of persons covered by the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule and the reintroduction of a legal basis in the maternity law. All the elements are of a technical nature and I therefore recommend that technical questions be put in writing during the committee procedure. Then I would like to thank you for the consideration of the draft law and I look forward to a good committee reading. I would also like to make a few comments on the questions or comments that have been made during the debate. First of all, I would like to say that there are no foreseeable financial consequences of the part of the bill which is linked to the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. The economy in the draft law is merely a calculable economy linked to the reinstatement of a period of maternity leave. So we are really down in a small department where, as I say, there are no calculable financial administrative effects of the first part. In addition, I would like to make a comment on Mr Seligman's question. Finn Sørensen says: Yes, I admit that this is very complex. And why is it so complex? Well it is because we in Denmark have a lot of different social benefits. The combination of a great many different social services with different forms of life, forms of cohabitation and ages means that when the rights of the individual are enshrined in the legislation itself, what they are here, legislation and legislative changes are going to be extremely complex. And I admit that this is the case here. Well, when you see the bill, you can see that it's complex. However, this is a consequence of the fact that individual rights are directly enshrined in the legislation, and with all the combination possibilities there are, you get into something similar to what we are out in here. I would like to assure you that in the legislative process of the Ministry, we are making great efforts to seek common human words to describe what kind of family situations these various proposals are going in and are setting out to uncover so that, at least in this way, it becomes more accessible to us and can give us all a better overview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011160735	Thank you. And there is a desire for short remarks. The first question is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011160742	Thank you. I have to say that there are some deteriorations that the Minister says are in the petty section, but I am sure that if you go into detail and ask them under 18 years and others who are going to lose something, they will not see it as something in the petty section. My question is: will the Minister withdraw these deteriorations? I think we are up to two deteriorations because then I think the Minister can get a fairly large majority, or will the Minister perhaps divide it into two, so that we can also show our goodwill and say that we are pleased that some people are being withdrawn and some improvements are being made for some people, and that we really want to show our appreciation and vote for it? But, of course, we cannot vote in favour of the whole when there is a deterioration in it. Will the Minister give some of us here the opportunity to recognise the improvements and to give the Minister a large majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011160841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011160843	I don't have any special feelings about whether this is one or two bills. It is basically a debugging bill linked to two different legislations from two different times. If so, this is a way of dividing it up, i.e. the law on maternity leave and the legislation on cash benefits. Unfortunately, it is not so simple to divide it up to the individual level of performance, because I admit that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, that the draft law that we are discussing now provides for the possibility that there may be individuals under the age of 18 who are now suddenly covered by the ceiling on cash benefits, what they have not been in the past. But that is related to the second part of it, namely that they will then be covered by the housing aid rules, which is an advantage for them. The two are linked, and that is the only place in our legislative proposal where there is a possible reduction in the rights of citizens. It is the only place, and that is, that there may be young people under the age of 18 who are covered by the ceiling on cash benefits. On the other hand, there will then be a subset, or perhaps all of them, of what I know, which will be better placed with regard to the rules on housing benefits. Well, unfortunately, it's so complex.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161010	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161012	The minister makes it sound like there's a lot to get and not so many to give. I do not really see that, because then there should be some financial calculations that show a minus on this, and that is not going to be the case with pregnancy and reimbursement. So what I hear the Minister say is that you will not divide the proposal up in relation to the benefits in relation to the 225-hour rule and the ceiling on cash benefits. You don't want to split up there. But I also hear that the Minister says that perhaps the Minister is willing to share the proposal so that the part concerning the reimbursement of sick leave and pregnancy becomes a part of it. Is that what I hear the Minister say?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161048	Yes, my business here is to correct the errors made in two different legislations. Whether it is dealt with in a single bill or a two bill, I am relaxed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161101	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161105	Thank you. There's something that's not really connected. The minister says this is so small, so you can't calculate that at all. We are talking about the changes that are being made to the recipients of cash benefits and beneficiaries of the integration benefit and training aid. It's so small it can't be calculated. However, the Minister says very clearly in the submission agreement that this group of persons is then one of the elements, namely those under 18 years of age, thereby being placed at a financial disadvantage compared to the rules adopted, which will take effect from 1 October 2016. So some kind of calculation must have been made. So there's something that doesn't add up. But I am actually about to put a written question on this, so that we can be absolutely clear about how different family types are affected or taken into account by each individual element. In fact, it would have dressed the Minister if it had been done from the start, so we all knew what we were talking about. But this is actually something quite different I would like to ask. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov threw out a number before how much the single mother with two children has available. Would the Minister like to confirm that a single mother with two children after the cash benefits ceiling has DKK 10,200? are available per month and that amount has been taken into account for rent, housing support, children's check and payment of day care? Will the Minister confirm that this is the case and that the single mother will lose just over DKK 36,000? net per year?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161229	I don't have any figures to say that. I would like to look into it and reply to it in writing, but I do not have any figures here, so I can say here and now exactly what the amount of availability is for a particular family type with a certain number of children. But I'd be happy to answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161250	That's quite fair. You also have to be careful with numbers. There I have the advantage that I have looked at the Minister's fact sheet from November 2015 when the figure appears. So a single mother with two children after the cash benefits ceiling has DKK 10,200. This amount is intended to cover all expenditure other than rent and day-to-day payments. That is what this is all about. It would, of course, suit the rapporteur of the Conservatives and other rapporteurs from the blue bloc when they take part in this debate and throw large numbers out of their mouths about how rich the recipients of cash aid are, that they then always remember to say what the prerequisite for the calculation to which I now present the wondering population is. Does the Minister agree that this would be an objective approach to this discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161336	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161338	First of all, if that figure, sir. Finn Sørensen refers to is from a fact sheet from the Ministry, so I'll vouch for it. Secondly, the aim of the ceiling on cash benefits is to ensure that the amount available to you when you are on cash benefits is slightly below the amount available to you when you are working for a collective wage. It is in order to make the dynamics of the labour market and the social system work together. It is not a desire to make anyone poor, it is an attempt to have a greater link with the labour market for those who have a working capacity or a residual working capacity, and it therefore requires that, if you enter the labour market, you also experience a little benefit from it, so that you can pay your bus ticket, trade union quota, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161424	We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161442	The debate is open and I give the floor to the first rapporteur, Mrs Karin Gaardsted, to the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161510	It is important for both consumers and businesses that competition rules are respected and complied with both within one's own country and within the European Union. Too often people, companies or authorities suffer losses as a result of the infringement of competition law by others. This proposal makes it easier to be compensated for the damage suffered and social democracy supports it. The draft law follows from an EU directive on the effective operation of competition rules in order to ensure that competition is effective, and the directive sets out the rules for civil actions resulting from infringements of EU competition law. More specifically, these are rules for the calculation of interest, presumptions of loss, presentation of evidence of different kinds, rules on joint liability for small and medium-sized enterprises and beneficiaries of immunity, and rules on the effect of conciliation if a friendly solution is found. The draft law also introduces a limitation period of five years. The same rules will apply to claims for infringements between EU countries as if they were internal in our own country. Businesses and individuals must therefore in future deal only with one set of rules, which should be of benefit to all parties. As a consequence, it is proposed to repeal the chapter of the Competition Act on the limitation of civil liability, as well as the chapter on group actions, and to replace the corresponding provisions of the directive. Here's the warning bells a little bit. For the Social Democratic Party, it is important that the right to group proceedings should not be impaired to such an extent that group actions no longer make any sense. The consultations are also a little complicated in this area, and I would therefore like to suggest that we take time in committee to unfold exactly this area so that we are sure that we are going to land as we should. Finally, the draft law clarifies the publication of decisions. Transparency and transparency are essential values, and of course we support that too. The Socialist Group in the European Parliament supports the proposal at this stage and looks forward, in committee work, to getting us to the bottom of the problem of, in particular, group actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161756	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011161809	Now the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned that the Social Democratic Party supported the bill at this stage. Then, of course, it will be exciting to see whether it will continue to apply until its adoption at a third reading. The Danish People's Party has also welcomed this bill, at least in relation to the things that lie in its purpose, precisely to ensure that both people, companies and authorities have a better legal position in relation to easier to obtain compensation, among other things. through civil actions, in cases where there is an infringement of EU competition law. We in the Danish People's Party really think that there are many advantages and many good intentions behind this bill, but of course we have a few things that we want to clarify a little more specifically in connection with the Danish Parliament's consideration of the entire bill. If you look at the hearing answers that have come, you will see that among other things. Dansk Arbejd and Dansk Byggeri have raised a criticism that there will be increased legal expenses and legal assistance costs in connection with this, and that there will be a number of exceptions to Danish legal rules and fundamental legal principles. It is also considered that this is generally an overimplementation. And just overimplementation is one of the things that the government has put great emphasis on, that they don't want us to have minimum implementation unless there are good reasons for further implementation, compared to the fact that overall it gives Denmark better and more favourable conditions. So, of course, we in the Danish People's Party would like the Minister to explain whether we recognise that there is an overimplementation and whether, if there is an overimplementation, it is an overimplementation which is both sensible and sound. Then I would also like to say, if we are going to discuss the process, that the way in which this bill has been implemented is not very fortunate, that is, with the consultation period that has been in place. A massive criticism has been raised. If you look at the notes that have come from Danish Business, Danish Construction, Danish Industry, Danish Finance Council, Danish Crafts Council, Insurance & Pension, Agriculture & Food and, not least, the Realcredit Association, you can see that they all point out that it is not reasonable that in such a comprehensive bill as this, on a fairly complicated legal basis, you choose to put it in consultation only for 5 weeks, even starting on 28 June, which is at least for many people right in the middle of the summer holiday. Perhaps it would be better if we learned from history and, among other things, from history. listened to some of the things that have been criticised. Among other things: Says the Left's own group chairman, Mr. Søren Gade, in a joint chronicle with the party leader of the Radicals, Mr. Morten Østergaard, precisely that there must be a good and in-depth review of the legal process and that there must also be room for the consultation period, which is both predictable and justified. After all, the Social Democratic rapporteur referred to what is specifically in the draft law on the new clarifications on the calculation of interest rates, assumptions about the amount of loss suffered, the presentation of evidence in legal disputes and also about the other matters relating to joint liability. I shall not go into that side more than saying that we are in favour of this bill as a starting point. We believe that this is beneficial to Danish interests. We will not vote in favour of this because it is a directive, as some say, we shall only vote in favour of it if we believe it is beneficial to Danish interests. So we look forward to the work of the committee. And on that basis, I can tell you that we cannot support the draft law in such a way as to be unconditional here. We are in favour of it, but, as I said, there are a few issues that need to be clarified, as I have already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011162214	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next speaker is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011162226	An open market economy with free competition is a key prerequisite for ensuring prosperity and prosperity. Of course, one of the many elements to ensure a well-functioning economic system that we celebrate at home is that there is effective competition. This helps to ensure that consumers get the best prices and that there is innovation in the market. Yeah, so the competition is central. It is therefore essential, of course, that we ensure that we have effective competition rules that ensure that no one breaks the rules of the game, that prices are agreed in closed rooms and that consumers are given too high prices, or that agreements are made that lead to better-managed companies being cheated in competition. That is why we have competition rules, and that is why we must also ensure that they can be effectively enforced. The legislative proposal that we are now considering, as presented by the two previous rapporteurs, stems from an EU directive designed to ensure better enforcement of EU competition law. Because it is difficult today for those citizens and companies who may have suffered a loss when other companies have committed an infringement of competition law, to subsequently be compensated for any loss that might have been suffered. In my view, it is both right and proper to have to violate the competition rules to the disadvantage of consumers or other economic operators, of course, it must be punished. However, I also believe that there is a strong preventive effect in the fact that there is a greater risk of being subject to liability for the unlawful acts that may have been committed. So that makes really good sense to make this tightening up. Without having to go through too much of the technology that has already been explained, let me mention just one element: the limitation period in the directive is increased to five years, compared with the normal three years we have here at home. Since the directive mostly envisages cases in which it has an impact on trade within the European Union, it could only be allowed to apply there. However, without having to take a long review of procedural rules and depending on how to cut a case in the first place, it makes real sense that the same limitation period also applies if it is only an infringement of national Danish competition law that is the case. This means, therefore, that in these cases we know that we are running according to the same rules, whether or not it is clear from the outset whether Danish competition law alone has been infringed or whether it is EU competition law when it comes to trade. This leads to uniformity in treatment in this area, and I think that makes a great deal of sense. It is basically important that we ensure that we have an effective market, that we have free and open competition, and if someone cheats on the weight and gets a verdict on this or otherwise admits that they have committed a breach of competition rules, then it is also quite fair that it is possible for those people or companies who have suffered a loss to seek compensation. It is difficult today and it is basically what we are doing to improve it. That is why it is, of course, a legislative proposal that we warmly support from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011162555	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker is Mr. Pelle Dragsted as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011162605	It is, after all, one of these slightly technical legislative proposals that we are discussing today, which is about making some adjustments to the existing legislation on claims where competition law has been infringed. The aim is therefore to have the Danish legislation updated in relation to this EU directive. Immediately, in the Enhedslisten, we find the austerity proposed by the proposal positive, among other things. to tighten up the interest payment so that it starts, from the injury is caused and not from a due date. This, of course, gives the victim a more fair compensation. It is also positive that the time limit for limitation from 3 to 5 years is increased. Once again, it is something that strengthens the victim's position, which we welcome. We have some doubts about the impact of the draft law on the long limitation period of 10 years. Maybe the minister can solve it from up here. Otherwise, we may be able to clarify this in the further reading. Then there is another issue too, and this is the issue of the special rules for small and medium-sized enterprises, where, as we understand it, the penalty for violating competition law must be milder. There may of course be arguments in favour of this, but the other way around, it must be the case that if you break the law, you have to be punished for it. Of course, the argument in the comments to the draft law that this could damage the economic viability of small and medium-sized enterprises is a relevant consideration. On the other hand, it must also be the case that if you cheat, you have to take the garbage afterwards. It could be that the victim was another SME. So that is certainly something we would like to discuss in the legislative process. With regard to the changes in the rules on the provision of material and information for investigation, which are intended to bring Danish law into line with EU law, it is also difficult to see material available to me. We hope that this will be further developed in the legislative process. It is, of course, an important question whether or not this limits the scope of the investigation. If it does not, we will be positive about it. So all in all, Enhedslisten is positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011162841	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Danny K. Malkowski as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011162850	Thank you. The proposal creates a separate competition liability legislation as a consequence of the directive on certain rules for actions under national law relating to compensation. In Denmark, we already have a very well-functioning system of compensation, based on sound principles, such as that the victim should be neither better nor worse than before the damage occurred. Many of these principles have been retained in the implementation of the directive, and that is in itself fine. However, in some areas the directive makes substantial changes. When, for example, a cartel is formed. The new rules suggest that the formation of a cartel has led to a loss, and it is the defendant's job to refute that claim, that is to say to have a kind of reversal of the burden of proof. It is clear that in such cases the defendant has a certain amount of information and that is also the reason for the rule. But we think we should be careful about this kind of thing. The Directive requires that the rules be applied only in cases where there is an effect on trade. The proposal here also makes the rules applicable to purely Danish matters. It is therefore an over-implementation. There is, of course, a natural logic in treating all cartel infringement cases equally, but we are not sure that the overimplementation is beneficial, as it will probably introduce the least new burden to apply these rules in as few cases as possible. Against this backdrop, we are in favour of the proposal, and I am sure that my colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will be in favour of it. Joachim B. Olsen is looking forward to the committee work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011163020	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment, and it is from Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011163030	Thank you. I know that the Liberal Alliance is not much for what is called over-implementation of EU directives. But my understanding of liberal or liberal politics must also be that there must be fair competition, and that, for example, there must be fair competition. cartel formation or other unfair competition must be resisted. Does the rapporteur not think that our trade with other countries has been as globalised as it is, and when such a large proportion of our trade takes place across borders, it makes very good sense to have an EU regulatory framework which, like the focus on cartels and other types of things, focuses on? Should the rapporteur's remarks be understood in the sense that the Liberal Alliance will then not vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011163122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011163123	As a starting point, I can only repeat what I said, namely that, in view of the problems I have raised, we are at first negative until we have further clarified how this over-implementation takes effect. However, it is of course clear that we need to look at how to eliminate illegal cartels, including across borders within the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011163145	There are no further comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011163148	Thank you. We are very positive about this proposal in the alternative. Of course, technicalities can come up in the work of the committee which I have not yet been able to see through, because this is, to put it mildly, a complicated proposal. But basically, this is one of the places where European cooperation shows once again that cross-border legislation is doing something good in every way possible. In relation to anti-competitive cases that have taken place outside the country's borders or at home, I think that the over-implementation that one might be nervous about, and which some people are also nervous about maybe going to happen in this country, we are by no means nervous about in the alternative. I note that there is no provision for the economic cost of this, and that is why we have to understand that the only thing we could see as questionable would be if there were fewer cases coming out of this. We're thinking that this focus can only benefit from the fact that there may be more. And if we then find out that this will be a burden for some companies along the way, then we have to go in and look at it again. However, we are very much in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011163257	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011163306	Today we are dealing with L 21, which is the law on the handling of claims for damages where there is a breach of competition law. It is quite reasonable, of course, that if you experience that you have losses as a result of some others having broken the law, you have the opportunity to calculate what losses you have had; that there will be clarity about interest rates; how to assume losses; how to present evidence and so on. So it is a sensible implementation of the EU directive and we also think it is a good idea to create a common regulatory framework for both trade and national competition law. It is clear that it is always a trade-off that gives it additional burdens, or is it actually bureaucracy that we are removing here by not having two sets of rules? I hear that there are some who think it is better to have two sets of rules in which you as a company should be able to find your way around. On the radical side, we think that having as few rules as possible is a big gain in itself. So, immediately, we think that it is a sensible place to make Danish law that concerns trade, and that only concerns Danish competition So we are immediately very much in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011163429	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011163440	Thank you. It is important that we also have fair competition across borders, that we protect ourselves against cartels and ensure that we can obtain compensation if we have been exposed to unfair competition. After all, more and more of our trade is going on across borders, which is why it makes sense to have a common EU law set, which is why this directive must, of course, be implemented. I would just like to say that I find it unfortunate to say diplomatically that once again we have a legislative proposal in this Chamber, which is rightly criticised by those entitled to a hearing for having had too little time to study. I hope the Minister will address that in his speech up here. These are complex substances, and this is really important, and it is of course the stakeholders who have submitted a lot of consultation responses. So it is simply an injustice that must stop. I note that the Notice from the Competition and Consumer Protection Authority states, after examining the various elements, that, in the light of the above, they consider that it is most appropriate for both injured undertakings and consumers as well as for overlying undertakings, if the same rules apply in relation to the treatment of claims for infringement of competition law in relation to the limitation of proceedings and liability in the event of a breach of that law, whether or not an infringement has an effect on trade. That is also SF's point of view. And a little in line with that, sir. René Gade also says that we should have the same set of rules, whether it be about trade or not. At least that is how I understood it from the Alternative's rapporteur. At the same time, however, it makes sense that we have the same set of rules, so when it comes to, for example, the rules. obsolescence, then it should be 5 years no matter what. However, as it is now before us, we also have some questions during the committee procedure... the SF can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011163645	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. I do not see a rapporteur for the Conservatives present, so we move on to the Minister for Industry and Growth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011163659	Thank you. And thank you for the many comments that have been made on the legislative proposal that we are now considering. I would like to start by saying that it is, of course, complicated on many points. However, if you start in the helicopter, I would say that the purpose of the legislative proposal, which has also been mentioned by several people in their presentation here from the platform, is to make it easier for consumers and traders to seek compensation in cases where competition law has been infringed. I think that is a very important purpose and also noble purpose. I would also like to sign for Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's remarks. It is not always that I am equally good at commending the SF, but I think that some of the remarks made by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the platform are quite right. That applies to Mrs Ida Auken too. If we are to have a transparent market, it must be possible to have free competition, it is also important that there should be no stinging vessels that exploit the fact that we then fail to comply with what is defined by a free market, namely that people should not form cartels. I think that is a very, very important point to make here: you should not be able to get away with it. It has already been sanctioned today, but now EU legislation has gone a step further, and I think we can be very satisfied with that. What it also offers the opportunity to do is, of course, to support effective competition. Effective competition should also lead to lower prices and varied offers for the benefit of both Danish companies and Danish consumers. The competition rules prohibit restrictive agreements such as: cartels and abuse of dominant positions. The competition authorities enforce the competition rules, but if the rules are to have full effect in practice, there must also be good opportunities for the injured parties to subsequently seek compensation when the rules are infringed. Today it is the case that it is difficult for the injured parties to obtain compensation following infringement of the competition rules, among others. because it is difficult to prove that one has suffered a loss, and not least the amount of this loss. The draft law therefore also contains rules concerning, inter alia: the presentation of evidence, rules on joint liability for small and medium-sized enterprises and beneficiaries of immunity, rules on the burden of proof of over-prices, the presumption of loss, the calculation of interest, rules on the effect of conciliation on subsequent search issues and rules on limitation periods. A large number of the comments that have also been made here, I will come back to them in writing during the committee procedure. However, I would also like to make it clear today that I think it is crucial that we, too, on the Danish side, of course implement the EU directive on which agreement has now been reached. In the whole question of whether we are over-implementing, I would say that we do not. We are making a textual implementation, so when some of the organisations claim to be over-implementing, it is certainly an over-implementation that I cannot in any way recognize. I would also like to mention that the directive requires Member States to introduce special rules on claims for infringements of competition law where the infringement has been able to affect trade between Member States. However, it is proposed that the rules of the directive should also apply to national rules in which trade is not affected. This is proposed because the consideration of competition in Denmark is equally worthy, regardless of whether it is a breach of competition law that has no effect on trade. In addition, it is also considered most appropriate for a set of common rules to apply. This makes it clearer what rules apply to businesses and consumers alike. So with that I would say that I actually think that this bill deserves a very good and thorough committee procedure, but politically, I think, there is a very important signal for both companies and consumers. Those who abide by the rules must, of course, have better conditions. That is what they are getting now, because now we are going to be more able to fight against cartels.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011164055	Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for short remarks, so we can see that the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011164115	The debate is open. The first rapporteur we are giving the floor is Mrs Mette Reissmann, on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011164132	The bill we are now considering has been submitted on the basis of a report prepared by the Danish Competition and Consumer Protection Agency back in 2014. The report has highlighted many areas related to how the current framework for retailing is consistent with the ambition that productivity, growth and, above all, competition in the sector will increase. There is no doubt that the retail trade is constantly evolving. It does so in the physical world, but it certainly does so in the digitized world. Therefore, it also makes very good sense to constantly look at the need of the retail trade to create the smartest possible framework conditions both to ensure productivity and growth, but also to support the most optimal competitive situation for the benefit of consumers and for the benefit of society as a whole. The work on the report was initiated by the former Social Democratic-led government as part of the competition exercise for 2012. It is therefore also positive that the ideas that were then laid down have found their way, partly through the report of the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency, but also in the concrete and current draft law that we are discussing today. It is good that we are allowed to discuss the framework of the retail trade and its conditions on the basis of this bill. The report itself contains several elements pointing to anti-competitive barriers. One of these is the occupational rental law. It may contain barriers which may actually prevent companies from establishing themselves in a given geographical area and, therefore, inter alia: is anti-competitive. The bill itself is divided into two parts. The first part is about ensuring the possibility of entering into fixed-term leases further than today. The hearings show that there are legitimate objections to the draft law with regard to precisely the limited-term possibility of renting. At present, the tenant has the possibility of abolishing the time limit in a business lease agreement if the time limit at the time of conclusion is not sufficiently justified by the circumstances of the landlord. It is proposed to be repealed. There is no doubt that in the matter of time limits it is important to bear in mind that the right balance must be established. On the one hand, of course, the rights of the tenant must be protected and, on the other hand, sufficient flexibility must be ensured to support the opportunities for growth and productivity in the retail market. As far as the latter is concerned, it is fair to say that the current rules present a barrier to potential growth. This applies to access opportunities for companies wishing to establish themselves in the retail market and to opportunities for expansion for successful companies. In both cases there are barriers which, of course, make good sense to restrict. For the same reason, it is also sensible to increase the flexibility of fixed-term business lease agreements and to make the freedom of agreement between the parties more decisive than at present. At the same time, it is also clear that increasing flexibility requires attention to be paid to how this affects market behaviour. Therefore, there will be a need to monitor developments in this area, which should be reported to the Committee on Business, Growth and Export, for example, annually. In any case, it is important for the Social Democratic Party that we follow developments closely so that one's freedom does not become the freedom of the other. It is a very important principle in Danish contract law. Similarly, we need to use the work of the committee to get to the bottom of the many issues which, among other things, include: shall be justified in the consultations. The second part of the draft law provides for the clarification of the information to be provided in the assessment of the market rent in commercial leases. The purpose is to ensure that all relevant agreements and contractual terms are included in the assessment. This is almost a natural consequence of a demand for effective competition resulting from a requirement of transparency. So it should be a matter of course that it is already there, but at least now it is being enshrined in an existing law. The need for this proposal demonstrates the need for regulation in this area, so that it is a clear prerequisite for making competition effective. Social democracy supports the draft law's ambition to strengthen growth opportunities and competition in retail trade and to increase transparency. We must see if the balance to be struck is the right one. We look forward to the work of the committee. We will use the work of the committee to ask questions to clarify whether the right balance is present and we will also recommend again that there be any annual reporting to the committee so that developments can be followed. If the answers are answered comfortably, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011164652	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011164702	As the Social Democrats' rapporteur said, this is a legislative proposal in which the intention is to ensure and strengthen competition in Denmark in relation to managing industrial rental legislation and to provide proper framework conditions for those who are business owners and those who stand on the other side and want to rent the premises in question. The first point of the draft law is, of course, that it will remove the possibility for tenants to override these terms for a time limit, and it is considered that it will thus make it more attractive for the landlords to enter into this type of business lease agreements. This is something that has a bearing on the committee which has worked on it in the past and which has made some recommendations. In the analysis of the future retail trade, we have been working on it as far back as April 2014 and have made these recommendations. We do not really have anything against it, as the Socialists also say, that it is being monitored in a good way. And in relation to these relatively small changes, as I would say, it is, after all, although there is some scepticism about them, I do not believe that we have to actually demand annual reporting to the Enterprise Committee. That is not the policy of the Danish People's Party. We believe that if you start, you will be able to find many other places where there will also have to be reported in the field of business policy, both in relation to banks, insurance, pension and mortgage and everything else, and then we could be true for virtue getting many annual reports. And then it will be difficult to find people who want to sit with the business policy work here in the Folketing, because we would be overburdened, to put it bluntly. We recognise the concern that has been expressed in the legislative process so far. There are, of course, some who have made a number of critical comments on this that it is believed that the proposal will weaken the position of smaller shops in particular in relation to the landlords with whom they then cooperate, and it is also believed that it will weaken investment in some places vis-à-vis the retail trade. The Danish People's Party has no interest in weakening investment, and we certainly have no intention of weakening the opportunities for smaller shops to have good leases. We hope, of course, that the Minister will be helpful in responding to the criticism that has come from the Danish Detail and the Land Organisation of Vocational Lejdernes and, not least, the Crafts Council. But we are not going to say 'yes' or 'no' to the entire legislative proposal at this stage. We would really like to see these points clarified, the criticisms and the concerns that have been raised, and then we will take a position on this in the legislative procedure in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Those were supposed to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011165005	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011165012	Thank you. I must begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. It is so that for a smaller party it is difficult to achieve everything in this house, so we have made use of that arrangement. I would like to begin by saying that the legislative proposal we are discussing is a change in the law on rentals, i.e. that this applies only to business rentals. It doesn't have anything to do with rentals. In the case of commercial rentals, only a small fraction of the business leases, probably far below one-per-mille, apply to them as commercial rentals where they are decided to end at a certain time. Virtually all commercial leases have a different clause, after which they must be terminated by one of the parties. These automatically cease at a specific time; these are the fixed-term business leases. What is proposed here in the Minister's proposal is that a specific provision of the Occupational Leisure Act, Paragraph 63. 3 must be deleted. That is the provision which states that such an end-of-life time may be overridden by the right to housing if it does not end at a given time is reasonably justified by the circumstances of the landlord. Then the property court can override it. That possibility is removed, so, if I may say so, the written in future will have the meaning that it was actually intended to have. So there is not going to be such a rescue clause here that you can get to grips with, and that is why you are bound by the agreement you have originally made. We in the Left think this is a very good principle which we can extend to many, many other situations, even in the field of rental law. When it becomes the case that you are bound by the agreement you have reached, we must also say that then the situations that many tenants' lawyers have experienced will be a thing of the past. These are the situations in which a landlord comes and says: I have an empty room here, and I would like to rent it out for a limited period of time, that is to say time-limited. And here the lawyer has to tell his client that there is therefore a risk, according to §63. 3, that housing law can go in and cancel this time limit. And then in many situations the landlord will leave the room empty, for if he rents out and the time limit is lifted, yes, then he hangs on the tenant for time and eternity, now to use that turn. Of course, this is not something that needs to be taken verbatim. But then you switch to what is called leases on termination terms, and there you can't get rid of the tenant immediately if you want to. There you have to follow the rules laid down in the Occupational Lease Act. So we have to say that in the future it will be the case that we are bound by the provision on time limits, and we think that, as I said, is an excellent idea. I am referring here to this, and we must be aware that we have economic operators on both sides. It is no wonder that a trader is bound by what he signs. He is also in all other contexts. There are no consumer protection rules that enter here. So that's why it's so very natural. On the contrary, it is unnatural, as it is today, when a listed company that moves in as a tenant can find out section 63 of the lease law and say: We did indeed sign that it was an enduring lease, but we will no longer respect that. It's abnormal. We'll get back to the normal situation. That is one part of the proposal. The second part of the proposal deals with the setting of rents under Section 13. It is the case today that people can agree on a rent and agree on a future rent development. If you have not done so, section 13 of the Commercial Rental Act applies. But I can only recommend people themselves to agree on the rent development in question, possibly price or other adjustment factor, stairway rental, or whatever else you can come up with and agree on. But if you have not done so, you leave it to the residential court to decide if one of the parties believes that the rent should be set up or down, and this can then be done at four-year intervals according to § 13. In the decision of the housing court, the right to housing must take into account the nature of the market rent. Now, then, it is not such a clear concept what the market rent is. This is something to be found by catching up with other tenants in the neighborhood and then asking a man of sight and discretion. That's usually how it's gonna be. The problem is the one element of proof: the comparative rentals, where it can be difficult to pull out of other tenants and other landlords, what is actually paid in rents from them. Firstly, it may be difficult to obtain the information. Secondly, in all, too many cases, we see that that information is flawed, or we do not give details of pages, discounts and the like. It all has the effect of getting the wrong basis for the case we are now dealing with. There the Minister now states with the bill that all the terms of the comparative leases must be disclosed. I hope that it will then also be enlightened, because otherwise we will of course have to look at it again. But this is the sole purpose of finding fair and complete information about the market rent in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011165519	One person has asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011165524	Thank you. It is rare for there to be genuinely curious questions in this Chamber, but my question here is that we are afraid that small shopkeepers will be left weakened while the large owners of, for example, the small shopkeepers will be left behind. Shopping malls are gonna be able to handle this. Now I know the rapporteur as a very wise man, and I have also heard the speech, but I do not think there was any opening to the concern that there might be that some of the very small shopkeepers should be left in a more difficult negotiating position. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011165607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011165609	Well, there's no reason to turn anything upside down, and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is right that the tenants' situation is just enough better today. What we have to say is that they are traders, but as the questioner mentions, there are also small traders who may not be represented by lawyers and are not as good at reading the contracts. And, of course, we have to be careful about them. That is why I also hope that the Minister will go in and correct the guidance already drawn up in the year 2000 which could be accompanied by commercial lease contracts and the checklist drawn up by the Ministry, which is now accompanied by commercial lease contracts. Of course, it should be clarified what the consequence of this is, namely that when you have an end date, you have to move on that date. There is no doubt about that. If, then, I had almost ended quite wrong, that is to say, if you completely blindly sign it here, then there is a provision in Section 7 of the Commercial Rental Act that speaks of housing rights being able to override unfair rental conditions, and if so, you have to try to do so. But the primary thing to do is, of course, to read your own lease. This must be the case for commercial rentals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011165719	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011165722	It is clear that you are responsible for what you sign yourself, but if you are a hairdresser or anything else, you may not be an expert in the provisions of the Occupational Rental Act etc. And that does not mean, of course, that it should have no consequences, but I really think that the rapporteur himself opened it up. I am not sure that the SF will be voting for this proposal, but it could be greatly improved if some parallel steps were taken to ensure that people who may just want to have a small business but who are not strong in the legislation are a little better.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011165757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011165759	There is, as I mentioned, a checklist drawn up by the Ministry of Housing, which is largely attached to all leases. And I think it should also draw more attention to the problem raised by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011165814	There is another one that has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011165821	It's just a short question, too. Is it the rapporteur's view that it will be seen that it is primarily these slightly larger chains that will be able to come in and exploit this? It's not because I know it, but so, it's kind of what's in the cards, I think that if you make that flexibility for the landlord, he can offer the room more often and regulate the price, and then the market will immediately look like that in my view it seems to me to be favored for those who have just the capital to say: you know what we offer in here; we take the room. The self-employed, who then may have had a period when they have invested in the room and in the store, will then find themselves in a situation where the abandonment that you know today or the fire like smokes. That is my view until we have moved forward and is not the view of the rapporteur as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011165907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011165909	It will certainly be the case that we will not see many fixed-term leases in the future. I do not think so. But I have to be honest and say that I had a meeting with, among others. The Land Organisation of commercial tenants today, and here it is believed that it can be day-to-day in centres, that you make time-limited leases, so that the landlord can always regulate the rent up with new tenants. I hope that will not be the case, but I understand the concern. I just have to repeat that it rents, and this applies in particular to a large tenant, such as that per year. definition will be in a center so also have to sit down and read its lease, and if it says that the lease ends on 1 January 2022, then that is the intention. And I have to say that there is no way of talking about goodwill today either, because today we know that we have to go out on that date. But it will be quite clear in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011170005	There are no further brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011170016	After all, the bill contains two elements. The first involves the proposal that we have heard about, which introduces a further one, it can be said, the possibility of time-determining business lease agreements by removing the tenant's possibility of requiring a time-limit clause if it is not sufficiently justified by the circumstances of the landlord at the time of conclusion. And so it is this right, you might say, or possibility, that lies with the tenant, which is disregarded by the proposal. Then the rapporteur from the Left says that it is a matter of business leases and that it is to be expected that they have read the contract and that it is not a protection for the individual consumer. But there is also a difference between large and small companies, and there are some who have greater opportunities and some who have less, and when you read the consultation answers to the bill, it is also clear that some of those who are concerned are, after all, the professional organisations which organise smaller businesses and thus point out, as has also been pointed out in the debate, that some sort of balance of power in the landlord's favour is being displaced at the expense of the tenant. The government then believes that this will be growth-enhancing and that it will increase GDP by 200 million. kr. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive. The question is whether it is not more optimistic. In any case, it can be said that some of what is also pointed out in the consultation answers, among others. The Council of Crafts is that fewer people may be willing to rent on a fixed-term basis because their safety is being undermined. And as the alternative rapporteur also mentioned, there is quite a lot of money invested in a business lease, and if you can cancel out much more easily, then it can also weaken the investment drive, which could perhaps give the opposite socio-economic result in relation to what the government wants with this proposal. So we are opposed to that part of the proposal. The second element of the draft law, on the other hand, is very sensible. We've heard these stories about how it's been really hard to get your rent tested in order to figure out what the rent is in, for example. the neighbouring property, which was also mentioned by the rapporteur of the Left. And the fact that the information that needs to be provided in connection with this assessment of the market rent is very positive is very positive. It is important that this step be taken because, of course, it is important that all the information that can resolve a dispute about the level of rent be brought forward. So if that part is separated into a separate bill, Enhedslisten will be able to support it. However, we cannot support the overall legislative proposal because it leaves commercial tenants weak in relation to the other party, namely the landlords of commercial property.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011170333	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Danny K. Malkowski of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011170353	Thank you. This proposal will seek to increase competition in the commercial rental market, as we have heard, and at the same time ensure that all relevant information is provided in the context of market rent assessment. It is proposed to give a greater degree of opportunity to create fixed-term business leases. Today a fixed-term lease can be made, but the tenant may require the time limit to be removed if it cannot be justified by the circumstances of the landlord. The proposal removes the possibility of removing the time limit. In the Liberal Alliance, we are in favour of a high degree of freedom of agreement. We therefore find it very difficult to see why two professional parties should not be able to enter into an enforceable contract on fixed-term rentals. The protection of ordinary private tenants is based on the fact that there is a degree of asymmetry between tenants and landlords, namely that the professional landlord has a much greater insight into the rules and therefore a greater opportunity to exploit the tenant than vice versa. That is why ordinary tenants are given a very high level of protection, which in itself makes sense, but in our view it would be quite wrong to extend the special protection to commercial rentals. You can find plenty of examples that the landlord is a smaller company than the tenant, and you can therefore not assume that there is this asymmetry. Danish Occupation states that the landlord has an unreasonable power against tenants at the end of the lease period because there is considerable cost of moving. We find it difficult to see why a professional party should not be able to foresee this situation before the lease is concluded, as it is precisely in the contract. We believe that two professional parties must be allowed to enter into agreements when both parties can understand the consequences of the agreement and, on that basis, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011170526	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. René Gade from the Alternative, who almost comes running up here, however, doesn't have to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011170541	We're in a situation where we actually think there's something completely superior in this bill that's wrong. The idea that increased competition is always good, I can share to some extent as an old entrepreneur, but on the other hand this is a good example that it is not. Because if we want to have a diversity in society and we want provincial towns and larger cities to have all our cities, we could also say that we have to have business and shops that are not just going to look like those that are everywhere else, and if we want a place where there is an easy first step to start from if you are to start as a self-employed person, then we actually find it problematic that we are making a worthwhile slip. It may be that these are big words, because it is not this that determines everything, but we do believe that there is a valuable step in taking the court away from the tenants, as we can also see in some of the comments of the tenants' council and the Crafts Council in the hearings. In other words, there is something fundamental going on here, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also said, and although we would very much like there to be competition, although we would very much like the landlords to have something quite specific to do, I am quite convinced, as I also asked the rapporteur from the Left, that we want to see some shopping centres which simply end up with only the large, i.e. the international shops which already have chain shops in all sorts of other places, because they can simply overmatch what the local self-employed can do. These centres are one thing, but if you look around the cities of Denmark today, you will also see that a lot of other shops outside on the old streets are simply struggling to compete with the design and brand created in the larger chains. If you then take away the right to ownership that I can then understand is not clear, or at least go in and modify the ownership that is for a tenant in a given period, and then say: We are actually going to be able to take this away from you at relatively short notice or at least within a period of time, so that it may not actually pay for you to invest in your interior, in building your brand • what we in the old days called surrender, and which is harder and harder to get, then I think there has been a slip. It is then in the first part of the legislative proposal that we are therefore very critical of. With regard to the second part, and I do not know whether it is too small to stand out in a separate legislative proposal, we are completely positive about it. It's transparent, and you'd think it was just like that today. There is also one comment in the consultation answers that says that it may be difficult to implement far along the way, because that should already be the case, but at least we are very much in favour of gaining full insight into what the market rent is made up of. In general terms, however, we think that there is a loss of value, that is to say, we call it a little, that we should move from a competitive state to a balance society, and in the first part of the bill we actually think that we are creating an inappropriate imbalance in society. Maybe it's overwhelmed. It may be that I am becoming wiser in the work of the committee, but as a starting point we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011170853	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011170904	As those who are now following the debate, where we have reached this point in the rapporteur's line, we are discussing amendments to the law on the rental of business premises. I would say that we, on the part of the Radical Left, helped to set in motion this study on the possibilities of adjusting the business lease law together with the Social Democracy in 2014, but I would also like to say that the consultation answers that have come in at this time should, of course, make us stop once and just breathe and see if there is anything about this, because the intention has been to ensure that there are more business rentals, that there is flexibility, and that in this way we increase competition. The aim is not to achieve more uniformity in the shops we have and to make it harder to be a small trader. And it has to be said that the comments made by the draft law also say that the law we are making today may reduce the security that the tenants have today. This is explicitly stated in the comments to the draft law. It also says that it can lead to a less incentive to invest in the design of shops. And there we can all see how Joe & The Juice can move in with his large equipment and possibly move forward if they have terminated their lease, but the small entrepreneur who has his one store and has arranged it has more difficulty in being terminated at a shorter notice. I think we all know someone who's been trying to stand up and have invested in a business and suddenly had his lease terminated. This can make it very difficult for the smaller traders. So I think it is worth drilling properly in the concerns that have come from the cooperative merchants, from the Crafts Council and from the Danish Occupation, because the intention with the law is not that it should be harder to be a small trader. So it is important for us to clarify this before we give a definitive commitment to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011171052	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011171109	Thank you. As you could also hear in my questions, which I asked earlier, we from the SF are also very sceptical about this bill. We fear that the balance of power between landlords and small businessmen will be overshadowed by the large chains in the large shopping centres. That is also why my question to Mr Beazley. Preben Bang Henriksen was sincere: if it ends up with a majority in favour of this, where can you take action so that you can protect the smaller traders? I also think that a number of answers have been given in the consultation answers, which are precisely a problem for this development. And then I must also admit that although I understand the background for starting this work, ELO has among other things. There are some things I do not quite understand in the arguments in the comments to this bill. I think that the argument is based on the idea that everyone understands the law of the profession, that everyone can fully understand it, whether you are a hairdresser or have a small shop or whatever. And in the real world, and there I am very pleased that he is not here to hear even the Liberal Alliance rapporteur say that, there may be a need to protect tenants in general, and also business owners, because one simply does not necessarily have the same insight into the area as others. I also think that the argument of better opportunities for new people who would like to set up a shop or the like lags, because where is it especially in the areas we would like to strengthen that you cannot get premises for a smaller store? It is a discussion we have had over and over again whether the way forward is megacentres, large shops, or whether it is the small retail shops that must keep up some of the outlying areas in our country that are having a hard time. I can simply see that it is the SF's view that you are going to put some significantly better and that the power ratio is thereby shifting. So we tend to vote no, but there can be something in the process that makes us find a better balance, so I will not completely reject it. But we just think this is too tough a diet for some of the small shopkeepers and small traders.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011171402	No one has asked for brief comments, so we thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and move on to the Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011171416	Thank you for that and thank you for the comments made by the respective parties. The draft law with two elements that we are discussing today is, after all, part of the government's work to strengthen competition in Denmark. The aim of the draft law is to remove barriers to competition and the growth of retail trade, as well as to increase transparency when the lease in a business lease is regulated. Let me start with the first point. The draft law introduces, firstly, a further possibility of concluding fixed-term business lease agreements and, secondly, a clarification of the information to be provided in the assessment of the market rent in commercial leases. The reason why we want to give a further opportunity to conclude fixed-term business lease agreements is the analysis which has also been mentioned earlier here today from Parliament's platform, which was set in motion by the previous government. That analysis points, among other things, to: the fact that fixed-term leases can support increased flexibility in the retail sector in particular. It is now possible to agree a time limit under the Occupational Housing Act. However, as the rules are today, the tenants may require that an agreed terms of time limit be breached if he or she considers that the terms of the contract at the time of the lease were not sufficiently justified by the circumstances of the landlord. Since the trade lease law is largely based on freedom of agreement between the parties, it is considered that it is unnecessary to restrict competition and growth that the agreement of the parties can be disregarded. The draft law therefore allows tenants and landlords to enter into an agreement to rent a commercial lease for a limited period without prejudice to the parties, except in the case of default or similar. The aim of the change is therefore to remove barriers to competition and growth in the retail market. The draft law estimates that the flexibility in relation to the conclusion of the lease is adapted to the individual lease conditions and thus increases. It is also considered that the proposal can have a positive impact on productivity, as the proposal also says, and thus on growth, the economy and consumer welfare. Let me now make a comment on the whole issue which has also been raised during the hearing and which Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has taken an interest in, namely the whole part which concerns the smaller shops, which I actually believe Mr Bech Poulsen also. Pelle Dragsted mentioned. There, of course, I would like to say here today, from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament, that the guidance which has been mentioned, I should like to get up to speed in relation to also providing better guidance than what is the case today. That's what Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen requested. And that is always important when someone from the Left, who is rapporteur, chooses to ask a Left Minister for something. Then you have to be particularly listening. But now it coincides with some of the questions that have been asked, and it is clear that one can politically disagree with this proposal. But Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and Mr. Pelle Dragsted wanted to see whether there would also be anything other than what is here, and I would just like to mention today that in my world there will be a follow-up to this bill if it is adopted, and there will be a majority for that. That is why I would like to say this at first reading. Something else that is also important to say in relation to the legislative proposal we are discussing here today, and which has been widely supported, is, after all, a clarification of the information requirements in relation to market rent assessment. With what is now being proposed, any doubt is removed that, for example, discount agreements shall be included in the assessment. The proposal is intended to increase transparency on all aspects, and thus we will also have complete clarity in the legislation on the information to be provided. And this is not least on the basis of some of the cases that were also publicly discussed almost a year ago, if not least some of the business leases at Strøget here in Copenhagen. So with that, I would like to invite constructive political negotiations, and I am also looking forward to the dialogue that may come forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011171828	There is a single inscription for short remarks, and that is Mr President. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011171832	I just want to hear the Minister's view of possibly dividing up the bill, in that we are several rapporteurs who have announced that one part is in fact broadly supported. Is that something that could be relevant?
ParlaMint-DK_20161011171851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011171852	So, I think that the fact that we are now discussing these two issues in context makes quite good sense. Then, of course, you can be for one element and against the other. But I'm not going to split up the bill. To be quite honest, I do not think it can bear it in relation to, if I may say so, this part which is about clarification. Some rapporteurs have also mentioned this in the past, so I simply do not think it can bear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011171920	Sir. Pelle Dragsted does not want another comment. There are no further comments, and so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. If there are no objections, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161011171948	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. Parliament's next meeting will be held tomorrow, Wednesday. October 12, 2016, p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
