ParlaMint-DK_20160226100003	Today's meeting is open. It's Friday, February 26, 2016. There are today the following reviews: Minister for Culture (Bertel Haarder): Bill no. L 138 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Radio and Television Activities, the Law on Renting and the Law on Renting of General Housing. Minister for Foreign Affairs (Kristian Jensen): Bill No. L 139 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Danish Institute of International Studies. Minister for Employment (Jørn Neergaard Larsen): Bill no. L 140 (Proposal for a law on the self-governing institution Occupational Insurance of the labour market) and Bill No. L 141 (Proposal for a law amending the law on occupational injury insurance, the law on unemployment insurance, the Law on working conditions and various other laws. Minister for Health and the Elderly (Sophi Løhde): Bill no. L 142 (Proposal for a law on clinical trials of medicinal products), Bill No. L 143 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health. Bill No. L 144 (Proposal for a law on electronic cigarettes, etc.) Kim Christiansen (DF), Villum Christensen (LA) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 79 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on driving licences for large mopeds and small motorbikes for 16-year-olds). Nicolai Wammen (S), Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT), Ida Auken (RV) and Jonas Dahl (SF): Hasteforskning nr. F 24 (Will the Minister explain how the Minister feels that a majority in the Folketing has expressed its distrust of the Minister?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160226100200	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226100229	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226100250	The motion for a resolution proposes to ensure that all non-classified documents collected by the Commission of Iraq and Afghanistan are published in this Assembly and that a complete list of all the Commission's non-classified documents is drawn up. The government cannot support the proposal. This is due to the fact that there are a number of fundamental issues that argue against the publication of the Commission's documents, and I intend to explain them in more detail here. The material of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission consists of a very large number of documents, approx. 70,000 transferred from the authorities, in particular the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the Commission. In addition, the material obtained by the Commission from other sources and the material produced by it itself. The material transmitted by the authorities to the Commission concerns to a very large extent confidential material where there will be an essential consideration against publishing it. In particular, it is concerned with the security of the state, the defence of the empire and the consideration of Denmark's relations with other countries. It is by no means all the material which, for these reasons, cannot be published, which is so-called classified material. Classified material means material assigned a classification level according to the safety circulation. The classification is based in particular on our obligations as part of NATO cooperation, and it is not the case that a document can be freely published if it is not classified. For example, it would rarely lead to classification that publication would harm the interests of other countries. However, it is clear that the publication of reports of confidential talks with representatives of other countries, for example, will seriously damage Denmark's international operation now and in the future. The motion for a resolution envisages the publication of all non-classified material. It is there, as I have mentioned, that the reasons given speak against. However, the comments on the proposal mention that important considerations include: the security of the State or the defence of the empire, as well as foreign policy or foreign economic interests, may lead to the non-publication. However, to what extent, in the opinion of the proposers, these considerations could lead to the absence of publication is not quite clear. However, this suggests that neither do the proposers necessarily believe that the classification issue should be decisive. At the same time, however, I must point out that, according to its wording, the proposal envisages that confidential material should also be disclosed in so far as it is not classified. In addition, the material transmitted by the authorities to the Commission includes a number of documents which are internal to the authorities or which have been exchanged as part of the internal decision-making processes of the then government. These may, for example, be notes and the like for presentation to ministers or written basis of decision, e.g. so-called covers, for meetings of the government committees, including the government coordination committee. It would be quite unusual, indeed quite unusual, if a former government and former ministers' internal decision-making basis were to be imposed by a current majority in the Folketing. This will create a precedent that I am not sure every party in this Parliament will like. Every government in office has ensured its internal decision-making process and, in my view, the government in office at all times has a responsibility vis-à-vis previous governments to protect this system. This is necessary if we are to be able to make informed decisions in a government in which every stone has been turned. The proposed publication system would go far beyond the fact that the investigating commission had access to the material. The system is precisely the one where a commission gets all the material. On the other hand, it works under professional secrecy and merely quotes what is relevant to its conclusions. There are serious reasons against publishing such material. Finally, there is the material produced by the Commission itself. This could, for example, be a preliminary reflection by the Members of the Commission on the questions to be examined, a reflection on subjects to be asked during the witnesses' hearings and the like. If the motion for a resolution is to be understood as meaning that this material must also be made public, serious concerns about legal certainty will arise. This is a preliminary piece of evidence from an unfinished investigation, and the parties concerned will therefore not be able to defend themselves, in appropriate legal forms, against any conclusions which might be drawn from such provisional material. Under the law of the Commission of Inquiry, the Commission publishes a report in which the Commission gives an assessment of what may be used as a basis for an incident. Before then, the parties concerned, with due regard for a number of legal guarantees, have had the opportunity to express their views. If one publishes such material, one obviously skips that process. It leaves those involved to carry out their defence only in the modern yawning book, that is, in the media. That is simply not legal certainty, and I am also familiar with parties which, under normal circumstances, will support such a view. There are also serious reasons against the publication of this material. Then there comes the • and that's probably the more boring part of this discussion • resource issue. Following the debate on the publication of the Commission's documents, one almost gets the impression that it can just be handled with a snap. This is not the case far from it. Over 70,000 documents have been sent from the authorities to the Commission. A publication will require a careful examination of each of these documents and will require, to a very large extent, the involvement of other authorities, including intelligence services and defence, and consultation with other countries in order to assess whether there are grounds for preventing publication. It will take me to try to stop using all these adjectives, but it will take a very, very long time and it will cost considerable resources. It is impossible to determine exactly how much resources it will cost, but the authorities' estimate is that it will cost a considerable number of years' work. On 2 July last year, and in addition to the government base, the government decided for the future to abolish the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. The government did so because the basis for Denmark's participation in the Iraq War and the conditions surrounding the detention of individuals by Danish soldiers during the Iraq and Afghanistan wars respectively is sufficiently clarified and there is no need to waste any more taxpayers' money. There has been a majority in favour of this. You can disagree with that, and you can take that discussion. However, we should not confuse that discussion with the issue of publishing all the Commission's documents. On the contrary, there are a number of independent, serious reasons against which I have explained them. That is why the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101121	Thank you to the Minister in the first place. There are a number of brief comments and the first is from Mrs Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101129	Thank you, Minister. First of all, I would like to know whether the Minister can confirm that it is the government itself that has brought itself into this situation by abolishing the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. There was ample opportunity to continue the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101149	If we have followed this discussion closely, we know that last March three parties, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party, called for the Left to clarify their position on the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission and to resign the Commission instead of just extending the mandate. There was a long discussion about this and, in the context of the formation of the government, it was agreed that the Commission should be abolished. I have done so in relation to the government base as Minister of Justice, and that is why it is the history behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101229	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101230	Then I'd like to hear about something else from the Minister of Justice. Now it is the case that there is a majority here in the Danish Parliament who wants these documents out, so is the government and the Minister for Justice planning to follow the parliamentary proposal and ensure that these documents are presented?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101245	I understand that at this time in the Folketing there is a great deal of discussion about whether views that have been expressed are enough for the government to feel obliged to do certain things. In this respect, I will stick to the constitution, which, after all, is the top thing we have to stick to and which we are all solemnly promising to abide by. And in this respect, there are a number of means which the government can use, ranging from following the wish of the Folketing to not doing so. I will explain that if it becomes relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101323	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101325	Thanks for the speech. It is crystal clear that what will be the simplest and absolutely best solution to this problem in terms of resources, legal certainty and political policy will be to let the Commission finish its work. It has happened since that agreement and government basis were drawn up, and that is why we are standing here today, that a lot of things have come out of the press, which shows that there are a lot of things that have not been clarified, as they were believed. I guess that's why the Liberal Alliance wants these documents out, that is, to put down myths. But that is not what is happening at the moment. On the contrary, a lot of food is given to conjecture as to why the government will not just let the commission finish its work. This will require very little resources, because the vast majority of resources are especially because we in the opposition have said that we will in any case ask the Commission to complete its work. I think that the question that is pressing is, if you could not imagine that, exceptionally, the government would like to follow a majority of the people in this matter. Now we did not do it with development aid, nor do we do it with the motion of censure on the Minister for the Environment and Food, and that is beginning to look like a bad habit, I have to say that frankly. Could it not be imagined that the government was just doing what governments used to do, namely to follow the majority of the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101448	I'm very fond of sir. Martin Lidegaard's polemical approach to things, and I can feel myself infected by it sometimes, but that the government has actually made it a general rule not to follow the majority of the Folketing, I do not think that is right now. It is true that after a vote in the Danish Parliament we have indicated that there was no agreement and we did not intend to follow it. This has resulted in the Folketing declaring its dissatisfaction with it. But that is the right of the government. In relation to the motion of censure, it is the case that it has not yet been made. So there is a big difference between the two situations. I do not want to hide the fact that, in relation to the reasons I have given here, it is clear that I have a great deal of concern that it is not a commission dealing with this material, but that it is simply going to be presented in every respect. I have explained that. But I would like to say that the way in which the previous government chose to set up its commission was very much politically based and in relation to the tradition we have here, very much
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101559	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101601	We have had that discussion many times. Now we write the year 2016, we are in a situation where there is a majority of the people who at least want the tax dollars that have been spent not to be wasted so that you can access it, not least to put down myths. In this case, would it not be quite natural for me now to try not to be polemical because of the majority of the people who are beginning to draw up this motion for a resolution that the government said: we really do think that the best solution is simply to get this work done or at least to follow the majority of the people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101640	I have to say that the Commission, sir. Martin Lidegaard speaks of being born with an original sin. It was politically motivated in its reduction and acted in its true reality of persecuting the former Prime Minister, former Minister of Defence, etc. This government is not going to support that. It doesn't. As I said earlier in my answer to Mrs Flyvholm's question, I would say that the government then has a number of instruments that it can use, based of course on the basic law, and we must see that. But let us now see where the negotiations lead us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101718	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101719	The Minister of Justice said that it would be quite, quite unusual for these papers to be published. But will he not admit that it is quite, quite unusual for the government to set up a commission which is working on its work and that that is why we have come to this debate, where it has to be said that the Minister's speech was a great defence of continuing the work of the Commission? That was a big argument for it. That is why I think it is something that should be considered. However, since the Minister is so keen to distinguish between classified documents and documents which are not confidential, because the latter may harm the country's relations with other countries, I would like to know whether this has anything to do with the fact that the conversation that Anders Fogh Rasmussen had with Wolfowitz, about a year before the Iraq War broke out, and which has emerged in a leaked document from the Commission's work, could damage relations with the United States. If that is the case, that is not true. It is not the United States that will be harmed by it. On the other hand, you can get a clarification of what the basis was for the Danish decision on the Iraq War. Isn't it important for the public to get it out, Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226101848	It is quite true that it is unusual to set up a commission in the course of its work. Admittedly, when I resigned as Minister of Integration, a slightly different kind of commission, a political commission, I had set up to examine how Danish immigration policy could be changed, was immediately abolished by the new government. But it is clear that a commission of inquiry is another matter. But I think I'll have to tell Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, that in fact it is merely evidence that we have clearly seen the setting up of the Commission such that there was in fact no desire to obtain information about Danish participation in war, the conditions for it, the aspect of international law. Nah, it was all about exactly the case that was closely linked to the former prime minister and the former defence minister. And that was usually something I traveled around in my time as Minister for Development, whose democratic views are significantly different from ours, and warned very strongly against. I just have to say that what arises and is used politically is also being politically abolished. Whoever grabs the sword... that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102006	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102008	Yes, but in other countries, for example. The United Kingdom, of course, has had a major discussion on the basis of the Iraq war. I believe this has contributed to the fact that a completely different debate on British foreign policy has subsequently taken place. It must then be admitted that it is of considerable interest to the public to clarify whether the basis for the Danish Iraq war participation was in order. I mean, it was the first time in many years that we went out into actual war participation. In other countries it has emerged that there was fraud on the basis of participation. Is it not important that the Danish public also be given the opportunity to find out whether this was the case here in Denmark? It has nothing to do with hanging out certain people; it has something to do with having an examination of the basis for one of the most important decisions taken in this country for many years. Surely we cannot simply reject that in the way the Minister does.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102113	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102115	Now I have to be careful that I don't move outside my ministerial class. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen and I share a role in the past, for my part, as Foreign Affairs rapporteur. But if I may say so, and I know that we have a major debate on institutions at the moment, then the question of the Iraq war has been taken before the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court has made a decision. You have said that you were competent in here to make that decision. I have such a feeling that we are here a little back in the 1970s with such extra-parliamentary activities as it was so nicely called then: you don't care what the Constitution says; you don't really care what the Supreme Court says; you just have some feeling for something. I can't understand, and now it's politics... if you have such strong feelings for it, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen expresses why they did not come together in a broad political majority. Why did it go through on the narrowest possible basis, instead of saying: We would like to have a study of Danish war participation, and then we'll get together on how?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102222	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102225	I would like to stick to this by the political majority, because the Minister for Justice says that it was a political decision to set up the Commission, and the Minister also says that it was a political decision to close the Commission. Now there is a political majority here in Parliament today who would actually like to have this information on the table. The Minister himself says that the arguments that speak against the proposal here today are that it is more comprehensive than the Commission and it is more resource-intensive than the Commission. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether, from a political point of view, he could not consider whether the politically most appropriate thing would be to reopen the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102306	I do not have to hide the fact that it would have been nice to know, when I signed the resignation of the Commission, that there was a majority in the Folketing who wanted to publish all its documents. I shouldn't be able to deny that it had affected my decision. But that does not change the fact that the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission was politically set up and, in my opinion, narrowly politically set up in order to make certain politicians difficult. If you had really wanted a proper debate about Danish participation in war, you would have approached it in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102343	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102345	But that's not what I'm asking. I wonder whether the Minister has given us the political situation here today, where a majority wants to see what was the basis for Danish participation in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars so politically could consider re-establishing the Commission, since there is a political majority behind the desire to review these documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102413	I do not know why we are currently so busy jumping to the conclusion before the discussion. Actually, it's a bad thing. I have thus seen a belief in the rationality and common sense of my colleagues. I'd like to stand up for Danish popular rule, 100%. I am proud to be part of the Folketing, and I am proud to be here with my colleagues. That is why I also allow myself to believe that discussion can move one another. Then we shall see what the result will be. If a certain result comes out of it, then I will deal with it at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102450	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102453	Thank you. The then Chairman of the Left and the current Foreign Minister said back on 8 May 2014:... No one above, no one next to the Folketing,... It is an insult to the people's rule that you don't care about it regardless of what the Folketing decides. He said so in connection with the fact that the then government ignored a majority in the Folketing which adopted a motion for a resolution. Does the Minister for Justice agree with the then Chairman of the Left Group that it is an insult to the Folketing if the government does not follow a majority in the Folketing and follows a decision when it is adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102540	Many, many years ago, there were two law students who, in connection with the Parliament's treatment of the petty Palestinian special law, which has led to many, many accidents, I think even, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen was at the time of writing a chronicle in Politiken and in it described that any legislation is ultimately done on the responsibility of the Minister, for he is the signatory to the law. He is the one to answer for the Court of Justice for what is up and down in the law. At that time the two young law students wrote that the Minister of Justice in question should not sign the law in question for all possible reasons. Where would Denmark have been a better country if it had happened? That's why I can't say to Mr. Cole. Nikolaj Villumsen, for Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen can just go back and find the relevant chronicle that I share the view. One view, my own view, which I have explained many times in the public debate, is that we have a certain structure of responsibility in this country. The Constitution is a deeply democratic measure, and with regard to that old Hørupcitat, that nothing is above, nothing beside the Folketing, yes, one can ask oneself how the Thind Act could then be overruled by the Supreme Court. I'm sorry, I'm saying this nonsense. I have great respect for the Folketing as an institution, but seeing the Folketing as the highest of everything is not true. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen should, by the way, agree with me that it is by the people that all power springs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102711	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102713	Well, I'm not referring to Palestinian law or whatever else the Minister of Justice is talking about. I am talking about a quotation from the then Chairman of the Group of the Left and the current Foreign Minister, who said less than two years ago that it was an insult to the Folketing, since the then government did not follow a majority that adopted a resolution. Was that a wrong position on the part of the Left at that time? Has the Left changed its position as to whether governments should follow the majority in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102749	I can only answer for myself. I've never had that view. But I would think that most parties can find shared opinions on this. I have been teaching state administration law for approx. Ten years at the University of Copenhagen, and I have always believed that the constitution we have is good and that there is a reason why it is designed the way it is. There is the division of power. We have the legislative, executive and judicial power, and that is why nobody is above anyone in this way. Fortunately, we have a strong, deeply founded democracy in which the various powers have different opportunities to act. I appreciate that. I'm proud of that. I think that's amazing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102831	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102834	It sounds almost like the Minister's speech, as if the Minister actually prefers the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission to resume its work, rather than this resolution being adopted. And I think that is a really interesting perspective, because it is, in fact, a view that I and Enhedslisten fully share. When I find it interesting, it is also because in yesterday's Jyllands-Posten, the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mette Bock, says that one possible exit from this is that, as she writes, one could choose to reopen the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. That is why I would just like to know whether it is true that the Minister would prefer to reopen the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission rather than implement the present resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226102933	I think this is a very difficult dilemma. I believe that the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission was born with an original sin. And now I do not demand that a member of the Enhedslisten necessarily be very familiar with the concept of inherited sin, but it is of course about something that cannot be fundamentally addressed and that will stain the work that is being done, no matter what. So I cannot imagine helping to restore the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission as we know it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103004	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103007	I was pleased with the last four words "as we know it," says the minister. Why don't we go over this a little bit? Is it the case that, for example, if there is a problem with the environment? Is there a supplementary point in a mandate which says that the question of wars in Yugoslavia should also be included, so will the Minister look favourably on this? Because in the Enhedslisten, we have no problem expanding this mission. We have also said this all the way through, and it is therefore a pity that we have ended up here where we are. There is no doubt that although the Minister says that this is political, the question of exactly the Iraq war, prisoner extradition and everything else is something that has so much absorbed the Danes, even at a very different level from Yugoslavia. Nevertheless, we are not afraid to have a more thorough study, including on the basis of previous war participation. But is that what the Minister is saying to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103057	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103058	So what I can relate to is the motion for a resolution as it stands and the motion for a resolution cannot be accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103110	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103113	Thank you. I must admit that I have been somewhat confused on the floor of the Minister's speech and the answers that have come to the other authors. I understand it's a bad idea to present these unclassified papers, because it's too dangerous. It was better with a commission working under some confidentiality and presenting some results of their work but not presenting all the papers. But this commission was also bad because it was political, so the minister did not like it either. Then it is just that I am thinking, since there is now a majority in this Parliament who would like to have published these papers and have the transparency that does not necessarily want a decision to be made on whether the Folketing could decide to go to war, but would like to know why it was done, what was behind it and how it was acted, the Minister does not think: there is a majority in the Folketing, and I think that these two solutions are bad. Well, then, doesn't the minister have another idea? Could the Minister not then think proactively: let us meet, let us find a good idea to put forward the work that has already been done or resume the work so that we can find out on what basis we took these decisions and how we dealt with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103223	I am sorry to have confused the alternative rapporteur on this matter. That was not my intention. I have tried to give you a very thorough account of the concerns of the Commission, let us just put it as it is to create a people's court rather than a commission. I have been asked what the government will do if one, the other, the third situation arises. I will therefore reserve the right, when we have had this debate, to consider.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103307	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103310	Well, the Minister shouldn't be more upset about that either. I'm sure I'll find my head and tail at some point. But couldn't the Minister lift a veil when there's this desire to get to the bottom of this case? Well, I know the Minister as a man of action who does not necessarily sit around waiting for others to do the job or make the decisions. Couldn't you just hear some ideas for a solution to this slightly frozen situation, where the minister thinks it's all a bad idea and there's a majority in the Folketing who would like to have insight into these things? So could the Minister not show some of that power of action and come up with some good solutions or at least ideas for solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103346	I think the best solution was to leave things as they are, but at least there are some people in the Folketing who disagree with me on that, and we have to see how it ends. So, the government's starting point is that this matter has been sufficiently clarified. There has been a politically set up commission, it has been lifted politically, there was a majority in favour of it in the Parliament and now we have a subsequent process which we must try to understand, and I do not yet have a complete answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103417	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103420	How can the Minister stand and say that the question has been sufficiently clarified when, for example, we are discussing the matter? Have you seen the stories that have come up in the press? Among other things: Politiken has discovered various things after the government has decided that the Iraqi and Afghanistan Commission would be abolished. For example: After all, in July last year, Politiken revealed that the database one had of the prisoners whom Danish soldiers had helped to capture was suddenly gone. That was something I was very surprised about, because I remember back in the '00s, when I was the Foreign Secretary of the Enhedslisten, that we asked a lot of questions about these prisoners, whether we could get information about the time and place of their capture, because we wanted to know who it was. I even asked the question whether we could get to the Department of Defense and, in confidence, see or get information about these prisoners. And then all of a sudden, by reading Politiken last year in the summer break, you find that this information is just gone. How can such a database just stay away? A database won't be lost. In that the mandate for this investigation is also about investigating the prison conditions, it is relevant to look at it and say: well, here is something new that has emerged after the government decided to abolish the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103534	I'm sorry, sir. Rune Lund quietly to the relevant Resort Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103540	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103541	However, we have a general debate today on whether it was a good or a bad idea to abolish the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. I must also ask whether the Minister does not regret that the government has made such a decision, in view of the fact that there is a lot of information that has not come forward, but also in view of the fact that we are hearing from the soldiers' union, that they think it would be appropriate to have an evaluation of what happened and why the things that were done were done so that it is not the case that you simply go to war and that the Danish soldiers you send to war die, and so you do not start a war where thousands of civilians die, without having an overall evaluation of what was going on afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103625	It would be strange if I suddenly said that I regret that I signed the resolution supported by the majority of Parliament, namely the abolition of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. So I have spent a whole speech explaining the view that it has now been closed and why it has been closed. So no, I don't regret it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103647	There are no more brief remarks to the Minister, so we thank and turn to the first rapporteur. This is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226103703	In the Social Democratic Party, we would like the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission to be allowed to finish its work. There should be no doubt that we find it deeply irresponsible that the government has chosen to resign the Commission. War is a serious matter and when there is even doubt about the basis for going to war; when Ministers of the Left Government come with quotes such as "we went to war because there were weapons of mass destruction; that reason was wrong, final, or even more spectacular, makes references to Mr. and Mrs Pedersen in Rødding and their attitude as to whether or not there were weapons of mass destruction, there is something that suggests that this should be thoroughly investigated. As I said, war is a serious matter from the point of view of social democracy, which is why it is crucial that we learn from our experience. That is why we thought it would be useful for a Commission to have the opportunity to examine all relevant documents in confidence. That's what a commission can do. It may examine documents in confidence. It was only the decision of the government and the bourgeois parties to abolish the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission early. It was not the decision of the Social Democratic Party, it was not the decision of other red parties, and it has not happened in the past that a commission has been abolished until it had completed its work. That is why this is a very unusual situation. I would like to stress once again that we would clearly have preferred the Commission to be allowed to complete its work. That would be the most responsible way of dealing with the many thousands of documents. Therefore, with an amendment, we will allow the government to resurrect the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. This will be the most objective way of dealing with the current documents, and I noticed that in his speech the Minister was not opposed to a new Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. He used the wording as we know it, and of course we are happy to discuss it. But there should be no doubt that our wish is for us to restore the Commission. On the other hand, if the government does not accept the offer to restore the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission, we support the proposal, which is here and which ensures the publication of non-classified documents. Because the desire to learn more about the Danish participation in war and the background to it has not changed, political issues or not. We will learn from our participation in the wars, because war is a serious matter. We will know the basis for the decision on Danish participation in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. It is quite unusual for a Commission to be chosen, but that does not change the fact that we want to be wiser, we want to learn for another time. With these words, I would like to say that we Socialists would like to see the restoration of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. We will table amendments on this and, if it is not adopted, we will support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104038	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104045	I should like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur whether the adoption of the resolution as it stands would mean that internal government documents and covers for use in the government's coordination committee would have to be published; and whether the Socialist rapporteur thinks it appropriate for a majority of the Folketing to be able to require a government to publish internal papers from a previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104115	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104116	There should be no doubt that we would rather see that the Commission was restored and that it would then be able to treat these documents in confidence. And that is why the Socialist Group in the European Parliament is also making the very generous offer that together we can choose to restore the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104133	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104136	Now I am asking, of course, what is the position of the proposal. And I understand from the rapporteur's speech that if there is no majority in favour of the proposed amendment, then we will support the resolution as it stands. Will not Mrs Trine Bramsen simply admit that it would be a break-up that a majority of the people ordered a government to publish internal papers from a previous government? I admit that there are many things I think could be extremely entertaining to gain access to. I believe that the papers on the previous government's discussions on a payment ring could be extremely entertaining. But does Mrs Trine Bramsen not agree that it would be a break-up, that we are not usually working in this way and that adopting the resolution on this point would create a completely new situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104225	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104226	No, the new bride here stands for the Left himself. The break in Danish politics is that you have chosen to resign a commission. I am aware that this has not happened earlier in Danish politics. We are giving the Left an opportunity to do so, as Mr von der Vring has said. Torsten Schack Pedersen points out, can be avoided. We can choose to restore the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission, and the Social Democratic Party has tabled an amendment on this. And if the Left doesn't vote for it, then the Left itself is putting itself in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104253	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104258	Thank you. I would like to continue where my colleague left off. So, I assume that the Socialists have an ambition to get back into government at some point, and this could set a precedent. Are the Socialists absolutely sure that it is wise to take the line that completely internal government documents should be available by a majority of the people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104323	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104325	It is a new break in Danish politics, in that one chooses to resign a commission. It is true that this puts us in a very unusual and not yet seen situation, so I do not accept that it sets a precedent. Because this is about the closure of a commission that has not yet completed its work. That is, of course, the starting point for us to be here today, and that is the starting point for us to have come so far that we need to discuss the extradition and publication of documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104357	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104400	Yes, but I'm not quite sure that I understand this with the scope of a parliamentary majority for a parliamentary majority wishing that commission terminated. But then they say: okay, it may be, but then we may get a majority for something else, because we are dissatisfied with that decision. And that's what you do without thinking through the consequences. I mean, I really want to go and I mean it really seriously, it's not just such a usual political chat... ask the Socialists to go back to their payroll and consider whether this is what you're about to do now is wise and thought through.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104441	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104442	But the Social Democrats also seriously believe that we should learn more about Danish war participation in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. We are serious about this, and that is why we set up a Commission. Now it is the Left that has put us in the situation we are facing today, where the necessity must be for us to publish a number of documents which we could make a commission work in a much more appropriate way, and we would prefer that in the Social Democratic Party at all times, but it is therefore the Left and I will have to stick to it that has elected in a very unusual way to appoint a commission that had not completed its work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104523	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104526	Thank you. In Jyllands-Posten yesterday an article was read in which a journalist had tried to seek access to some of the documents which B 52 deals with. This could not be achieved because of the so-called public law. Since the Socialists are advocating the publication of these very documents, I can only interpret it as meaning that the Socialists recognise that the public law which they themselves adopted has had far too far-reaching consequences and that, therefore, a roar of gigantic dimensions has been made when they want to bring those documents into the light. Am I not right in that conclusion?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104611	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104613	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104615	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104619	A few years ago I read a book called Comrade Napoleon, and they were quite right. It seems to be the case with socialists that everyone is equal, but some seem to be more equal than others. The Publicity Act should therefore only apply when the Socialists sit in the chambers, but when others sit there, those laws no longer apply. It's nice to have it confirmed here from Parliament's platform today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104644	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104646	I do not know what kind of entertainment show the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is trying to get into. This is a serious case. It's about war. It is about Danish participation in two very serious wars and the basis for it. That was precisely the reason why the Commission was set up, and that is why we are in a very unusual situation here today, where it has happened for the first time ever that a commission has been set up. That is why we have a discussion here today on whether the documents should be made publicly available. These aren't generals. It is not commonplace to go to war. This is a serious matter. We have an amendment, and I would urge the Danish People's Party to vote in favour if they are so concerned about the public. That is to say, we are reopening the Iraq and Afghanistan Commissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104737	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226104758	Thank you. War is complicated. The decision to go to war is also a difficult and complicated decision to make. The documents on which the decision is based are also complicated. The documents which B 52 aims to publish are, firstly, an incomplete picture of the basis for the decision to enter Afghanistan and then into Iraq. All classified and classified documents will not be presented, and when the terms of reference of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission, among others, are: In order to highlight the background for action in Iraq and Afghanistan, the absence of all the key documents will certainly give the decision an incorrect and unreasonable light. Secondly, the documents have not been commented on why the idea behind the documents and their wording have not been explained, and thus it may well be that it might draw a distorted picture of the decision-making basis for entering Afghanistan and Iraq. Therefore, presenting the documents which B 52 is intended to produce will not contribute to increased openness and transparency. It will at best contribute to confusion and, at worst, distortion. If you want an explanation as to why Denmark helped to reverse the terrorist organisation al-Qaeda and then helped to overthrow a dictator who had the habit of killing his own people, I would recommend the rapporteurs from the parliamentary debates of B 37 and B 45 from 2001-02, 2nd session, and B 165 from 2002-03. They tell us which arguments ended up persuading the individual parties who voted in favour of the interventions. Thus, the Danish People's Party sees no reason to treat the documents mentioned in B 52 differently from other documents and cannot therefore support B 52 as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105029	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105035	For many years, the Danish People's Party has been watching to be the little man's wedge into the system, which in its own self-understanding was to ensure that the Danish population, the Danish citizens, knew what was going on behind the walls of the central administration. Can the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party try to explain to me why the Danish People's Party has an interest in not completing the Commission's work in good order? In fact, I share all the concerns that the rapporteur has listed with regard to making it half the way that has been proposed here. Why not just finish the work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105119	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105121	That is because we consider the mandate from which the Commission was to operate to be highly politician, and we believe that it was not intended to contribute with openness, but merely to harden a majority of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105138	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105140	Has it not at all impressed the rapporteur that one media after another over the summer, after the Danish People's Party made that decision, has documented a lot of things that neither of us nor the Danish People's Party knew anything about, and that what we are in now is the ironic situation, that every time the government refuses to clarify this, it contributes itself to creating myths? For my part, I would like to say that we want to learn from both the successes achieved and the mistakes made in the wars to which Denmark has contributed, both before, during and after. We think we owe it to the veterans and the relatives of those we have lost down there, which is why I simply do not understand why we continue to keep this matter alive instead of having it completed in the simplest way: to show that there is no reason for myth, that nothing has been done wrong. I do not think that there is either, but the longer it takes, when the Danish People's Party and the government will keep their hands on the previous government, the more one begins to think that there is something to hide. It is, of course, the ironic situation in which the government is bringing itself, and the Danish People's Party could actually save the government by saying: Let it finally finish its work calmly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105249	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105251	The Danish People's Party is, of course, in favour of openness in the public administration, and that is also why we believe that the documents that are being dealt with here today should be subject to the same rules that apply to all other documents. And if sir... Martin Lidegaard believes that there are problems with the rules that deal with the public about these documents, so it could be that one should reconsider whether one should have voted for the public law, which has just darkened parts of these documents that we are dealing with today. There are, of course, many other places where we would have liked more openness as well. I could, for example. mention the sale of DONG shares, which could, of course, have tolerated a little more openness, which it was unfortunately not possible to obtain.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105335	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105337	I think we just need to make a historical cut here. After all, the reason for setting up the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission was a number of years with a bourgeois government in which the opposition tried to bring this matter to light through consultation and consultation and hundreds of questions. The problem was that we couldn't get answers. It was said that this could not be answered, and misinformation was given both from the parliamentary platform and in written replies, it has since appeared. When we applied for access to documents, it was already under the old public law that the documents that were central were deleted. We could, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few comments on the question of how many prisoners Danish soldiers had handed over to Afghan, Iraqi and American authorities and what had happened to those prisoners. Had they been tortured, what have been strong indications? Some of them were actually killed, beaten to death? These are the questions we could not get answers to. That's why the previous government, with the support of Enhedslisten, set up this commission. And I don't see what's political in that mandate. It just says that we need to shed some light on these relationships. It's not political at all. In other words, we would then support it, whether it had been a social democratic government that had implemented it here. It's not political. It's a matter of getting the truth out. I can of course ask the rapporteur: if the rapporteur really thinks that there is some light on this, can the rapporteur not tell me how many prisoners the Danish forces in Iraq took? How many of them were transferred to the Iraqi and British authorities, and how many of them died in the custody of these authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105513	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105514	Now I'm not in the government and I can't prove why these documents are classified. But I am confident that when you choose to classify documents, it is because there is a reason for this. So when you ask for classified documents, it is by its very nature not easy to get answers. And that must be why Enhedslisten has not been able to get answers to the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105547	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105549	I can record that the rapporteur is not answering my question. I understand that, too, because that answer cannot be given. For that information is buried in some of the papers that were in the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. These are the answers we could have received if the Danish People's Party had not contributed to closing an ongoing commission work. That is where we stand, and I have it as the previous rapporteur: I cannot understand why a party such as the Danish People's Party, which, like the Enhedslisten, turned against the Public Service Act and has generally expressed itself in support of transparency and democracy, can only accept that these things should remain in the dark. It is also about the consideration of the soldiers who have been deployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105630	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105631	First of all, I would like to arrest the view on the consideration of the soldiers sent out. I myself have a past as a soldier and have even had the pleasure of serving Denmark outside the country's borders. I have not yet met soldiers who have said that they have felt that their efforts have in any way been belittled by the abandonment of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. On the other hand, I have met a great many soldiers who feel that they could have had a much better return and better treatment as veterans. And that is why I am really glad that we are not spending a lot of tax dollars on political teasing that we could use instead for a better effort for the veterans in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105724	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105726	Thank you. I think there are some veterans and some soldiers in their union who are sorry that the Danish People's Party completely ignores their representations and attitude that the Commission should be opened. But enough about it... it must be at Dansk Folkeparti's own expense. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is that the government is not going to follow a majority in the Danish Parliament. This is usually something that the Danish People's Party in no way likes. For example, if we think back to the last period, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, as the then government would not follow a majority in the Folketing in relation to the children's cheque, that it was an insult to the people's rule. Then I would just like to hear from the Danish People's Party: will one really accept it in this matter if the government taunts a majority in the Folketing, thus mocking the people's rule and not following a decision when it is passed by a majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105825	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105827	As far as I know, this is today a first reading of B 52 and there are no votes on the programme today concerning B 52. That's why there's no parliamentary majority against the government in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105843	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105845	So, the quote that I just used was actually a quotation from a time when it was not adopted either, but when it just sounded very, very clear from the Danish People's Party that following a government not a majority in the Folketing, it is an insult to the rule of the people. So I just have to hear: is it the case that the Danish People's Party respects that the people's regime is being mocked, as long as it goes in the direction of the Danish People's Party? Or is it the case that we want to insist that the people's rule should be respected and that the current government should, of course, follow a majority in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105917	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105919	Like everyone else who has a seat in this Chamber, I have also signed the constitution, and that is what we have to rely on. But I will repeat what I said quite a short time ago: there is no vote today and there is nothing to say that it necessarily ends up with the government being sidelined on this matter. So until then it is a hypothetical situation and I understand that it is best not to deal with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105947	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226105950	Thank you very much. In relation to what the rapporteur says about the Danish soldiers, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Jesper K. Hansen, who is president of the Central Association for Stampersonale, said in connection with the resignation of the Iraq Commission that this is the largest trade union for defence staff, and I can perhaps read it out: When there is doubt about the legality of the Danish warfare, it falls back on the soldiers and what they are doing in the world. It is our view that all stones should be turned around so that we can bring them to light if there is something that has not been right. I would like to hear how the rapporteur can simply ignore the fact that the largest association, and indeed also the Officers' Association, is out to criticise the closure of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission and say that it is so important that we bring this information to the attention of the Danish soldiers as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110042	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110044	The Central Association of Stam personnel is the largest professional organisation in the field of defence because they also organise the personnel of the Navy and the Air Force and their private staff. The largest trade union, when measured by the people who were sent to Iraq and Afghanistan in particular, is the Army Constable and Corporal Association, HKKF, and their chairman has told me that he has met no one among his members who have any opinion whatsoever that this commission is important for their self-understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110119	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110122	I still believe that, and this is what many, many of these people are calling for, there is political responsibility. One thing is that there is going to be a military evaluation of these wars, but many are calling for it, and they are also doing so on the part of the officers, that there will be a political evaluation of what was going on here. Every other country has done this. How can the Danish People's Party just stand by and say: we do not have a political responsibility for the decisions that have been made and the people we sent to war here. Many of the veterans' parents and relatives have also wanted this clarification to be made. Why is that not something you listen to more? I would say that whatever protection it is, it is relevant that that criticism is raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110204	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110208	Now the questioner said that it was the biggest trade union that had raised the criticism, but it is not the trade union that represents most of those who have actually been in Iraq and Afghanistan. Of course, there must be political responsibility for the decision. Political responsibility rests with both the Afghanistan situation and the Iraq situation, among other things. The Danish People's Party, in that we supported both efforts. We assume that responsibility, and if anyone wants to ask us why we chose to contribute in the two interventions, I would refer again to B 37 and B 45 from the Second Assembly 2001-02 and B 65 from the Assembly 2002-03, where Mr. Peter Skaarup here from Parliament's speaking chair demonstrated why the Danish People's Party felt it necessary to intervene in both Iraq and Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110306	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110313	I have full respect for the fact that sir... Jeppe Jakobsen has experience from the defense, and also that he has spoken with veterans. I fully believe what he says, namely that they do not feel that there is a need for it. But we are also some who have spoken to other defenders, other veterans who have a different opinion, and I think the Danish People's Party should respect that. This has a lot to do with, and this is really the important fundamental discussion here, that if we look at how the outcome has been in Iraq and Afghanistan... Politiken had an article the other day on how things stand in Gereshk and Lashkargah, where our soldiers have been and how the Taliban has progressed, then we have to recognise that we have not achieved what we should have achieved, that it has been a failure. Surely it is very relevant for those fathers and mothers who have lost their boys down there, and the others who have risked their lives, to find out whether the basis for the effort they put their lives at risk was in order. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110425	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110428	I do not share the view that the Iraq War and the Afghanistan War were failures. As mentioned, the Danish People's Party supported our entry into Iraq to overthrow a dictator who had the habit of killing his own people. As you know, we succeeded. The Danish People's Party supported the intervention in Afghanistan to ensure that Al-Qaeda did not have a free space in Afghanistan where they could plan their atrocities. And I know Al-Qaeda has been defeated in Afghanistan. So I don't share sir. Holger K. Nielsen's view of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars as total failure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110511	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110514	Now I am not going to argue with the internal discussion in the Danish People's Party, but the other day we read that Mr. Søren Espersen, the Foreign Affairs rapporteur, said very clearly to Politiken that the efforts in Afghanistan had been a huge failure. That was a very clear statement by Mr. Søren Espersen. And it was precisely on the basis of the fact that the Taliban are coming forward again in the areas where we have lost most soldiers and had the greatest effort. It is clear that there may be different assessments of it, but I do not think that there is much to be done in defence and talk to people off the record before you are confirmed that it was not as good as Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen tries to express, and it has actually been a failure. That discussion cannot be held back. It has to be brought to light.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110611	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110614	[Sound Outlook]... the reason why you chose to go into Afghanistan and that you chose to vote for B 37 and B 45 from the Second Assembly 2001-02 was that you wanted to prevent Al-Qaeda from having a free space in Afghanistan. This mission, which was to be clarified, as stated in the mandate of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission, has succeeded.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110656	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. We welcome the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226110705	As no one is in doubt, it is the Liberal Alliance that has tabled a resolution to publish the unclassified documents of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. As has already been said, the position of the Left regarding the Commission's continued work was clear before the last parliamentary elections, and we carried it out. We laid down the Commission and, as you know, we have said that we believe that matters are sufficiently clarified and that a political dispute over a decision should not be wrapped in law. We believe that political disagreements are being discussed in the political debate and not through Commission work, and that is why the Commission was suspended when the Left Government joined last summer. Of course, we stand by that decision. The proposal before us means that unclassified documents must be made public. We find that problematic on the part of the Left, and there are many reasons for this. The first reason is that a non-classified document may not necessarily be unproblematicly published. The Minister of Justice has explained why this is not just the way to do it. Relationships with other countries, confidential information documents, communication with representatives of other countries and many other matters mean that unclassified documents as such cannot just be published. This also applies to internal government documents. Admittedly, as I also asked the Socialist rapporteur, I think it would be very entertaining to publish the internal papers of the previous government on the promised payment ring, which would certainly be implemented tomorrow or at some other time, but which, as we know, never happened. That would certainly be quite entertaining and enjoyable, but in respect of the work of a previous government we in Denmark do not have a tradition that a new government simply emptys the drawers of internal papers from the previous government into the open. A government must be able to govern, and that is why the proposal here will be a new break in terms of how we have respected the internal decision-making processes of previous governments so far. It is also proposed that the preliminary internal documents of the Commission should also be published. This has a large number of legal implications, which we find extremely worrying. For that would mean that if preliminary material, such as being prepared for the purposes of the planned witnesses' hearings, were published, it would appear to be uncontroversial and it would quickly appear to be a fact. The questions that a witness would be able to answer either affirmative or negative would appear to be a fact, and how would that put the persons who would have been questioned? So were they supposed to defend themselves in the media? I don't think we're many people who think that's part of a rule of law. The assessment is that there are some 70 000 documents, so there is also a purely practical challenge. It is associated with not insignificant costs and time spent having to review all documents, check with foreign nations, etc. to assess exactly what can be published and what cannot be published. Then, of course, it is also the case that it will be a special problem if the documents that can be published show one thing, while classified documents show something quite different that has been used as a basis for assessments. Then it will look awkward, and I do not think that will contribute to the qualification of the debate. So I have to say that for the Left there are a large number of very valid and solid reasons why it would be inappropriate to comply with the Liberal Alliance resolution and we in the Left cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111112	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111121	It falls to me that the rapporteur does not seem to understand the seriousness of this matter. The rapporteur of the Left compares this to a payment ring, but this is about war. It is about the many thousands who have been involved in acts of war in Iraq and Afghanistan, and it is about a Commission that has been set up in a very unusual way. This has not happened in the history of Denmark before. So starting to draw parallels to the payment ring seems to me to be very strange. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur when it is now that we demand that Danish soldiers, when they are deployed, should learn from it, and when we constantly demand evaluations of our defences, why we politicians should not learn from it. Why should we not learn from the decisions we made when the former Left Government decided to take part in the two wars?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111220	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111224	Now I think we should look at what the proposal says and then we should be aware of the consequences of supporting that proposal. There is just what I say in all modesty: I know that when we look at the material content and the meaning for people, for the soldiers who have been on the front line, it is, of course, trivial to compare it with a payment ring. I know. But now we are talking about principles for the publication of internal government documents, and I have to say that this is a new breach, and I hope that the Socialist legal rapporteur will stand by that. It is therefore quite an innovation in Danish politics if a majority in the House can prescribe that the previous government's internal documents should be published. And that, in my opinion, is the consequence of this motion for a resolution. I just have to say in all tranquillity that I think this is inappropriate, it is problematic, I do not think we are in any way helping our work by that. And I just think it is a pity that social democracy is so easy and carefree about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111329	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111331	I have two follow-up questions: does the rapporteur recognize that this is the first time in the history of Denmark that a commission has been set up? This has not happened in the past, and if the rapporteur has examples of it, he can give them to the Folketing. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 2: Why does the government and the Left not want to restore the Commission if the government and the Left, as the rapporteur says, are so concerned about the proposal that lies here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111400	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111404	That's because this is politics that gets wrapped up in legal discussions. This was a political commission. And I think it might be worth remembering just for the sake of history that, before the 2011 parliamentary elections, the promise from the Social Democratic Party was that a two-fifths minority in the Folketing should be able to set up commissions. It was supposed to be a minority protection. When you got the majority in the 2011 elections, it was no longer meant, because you wouldn't assume that I in the Social Democratic Party risk that a minority in the Folketing would be able to set up commissions to make political teasing. Perhaps it would have been a good solution if the Social Democratic Government, when setting up the Commission, had tried to bring together broad support in the Folketing instead of a narrow majority with a clear political aim. I hope you've learned something from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111502	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111506	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not also a legal and democratic problem that the Left is simply not prepared to stand up for the purpose of examining, for example, whether or not they are prepared to do so. Parliament was misinformed by former Ministers from the Left. It was Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen and Minister for Defence Søren Gade, who among others. was relevant, in relation to whether Denmark has been responsible for handing over prisoners for torture and whether one has known about the use of mercenaries in Iraq and such things. I would just like to hear: can the rapporteur confirm that such matters here are about Denmark's international liability and the law of ministerial responsibility, and that this is largely a legal matter and not just a political issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111550	As has been said several times, the Commission has been set up as a political project, and if it had been different, I think we would have been in a different situation today. It can be said that the questions which the Commission has been asked to look at are sufficiently clarified by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111607	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111610	It is quite obvious to everyone that matters are not sufficiently clarified. It has emerged in the wake of the resignation of the Commission. I would just like confirmation: does the rapporteur not think that it is a legal question whether there are ministers who have misinformed the Danish Parliament and whether Denmark's international obligations have been respected in relation to the Iraq and Afghanistan wars and that, therefore, it might still be relevant to have it examined here? Well, isn't there still a relevant legal question in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111646	As the Minister for Justice also explained, it was an issue that was up for discussion before the last parliamentary elections, where the position of the Left was clear. We wanted to end the commission. There has been a majority in favour of this, and we have done so. There are some who have a different political desire, and that is fair enough, but in the Left we stand by the decision we have taken to close down the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111707	The next one is sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111711	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left for acknowledging that a motion for a resolution on the payment ring cannot be entirely compared with the participation of war in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is true that the Left has come so far in its internal deliberations. After all, the rapporteur is getting very excited and I really heard the Minister come up with something similar to an outstretched hand. Since all parties agree that it would be a better solution for the Commission to finish its work in some form or other, would it not be a good idea for us to have the broad dialogue on the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission? I heard the Minister say that he did not want the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission, as we know it, but in it we have to understand that we can imagine a different structure, and it would be nice if the rapporteur of the Left would also confirm that it is the position of the Left Party that instead of this rather embarrassing course we are, of course, trying to find a good solution to what we can all see ourselves in here, also so that we avoid the issues in which I agree with the rapporteur of the Left in relation to this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111825	I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur of the Radicals says that there are problems with this specific resolution. I think it is positive that we have come this far. And I must also say that, of course, we in the Left are always involved in constructive discussions and dialogue with the parties of the Folketing, so we are doing so in this situation too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111846	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111849	We are, of course, crabs, one might say, to be able to get what we all want, namely a full clarification of this matter. Away with all the myths and in with a real desire to learn something. Contrary to what the Danish People's Party said, it is not only to learn from the decision-making basis for participation in Iraq and Afghanistan, but also enough of what we really attach the greatest importance to what happened during our efforts, what went well, what went less well, and how we can do better in the future in respect of the sacrifices that many have made down there. Can the Left perhaps just lift the veil a little bit of what one could imagine that the Left could see itself in if we were to try to find each other here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226111934	In any case, I can safely state that the commission that was set up and which, incidentally, also had a lot of start-up problems, which it was perhaps not so clear that the previous government was engaged in • there was a reason why we thought we should be closed down. We have not changed our view of this. We think that this resolution contains a large number of problems, as I have explained. We are going to have a committee work on this proposal, and we are, of course, involved in the discussions, as we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112006	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112008	It continues to be said by the Left that the Commission was political, but that is not justified yet. I mean, what is it in the mandate that is political? It seems to me that it is a political resignation of the Commission, which was about defending some narrow party interests, because it was perhaps by chance a Left Government that sat in power in the years when these wars were carried out. For us in the Enhedslist, it does not matter whether it was a Left Minister or a Social Democratic Minister or a radical minister, but we need to have it examined. So the rapporteur cannot explain: what is the political aspect of the mandate? What is the political fact that we want to see how many prisoners were extradited and what their fate was? What is the political aspect of this issue? What is the political fact that we want to examine whether ministers are indeed ministers of the Left, because it was once the Left who sat in government during that period that the Danish Parliament misinformed whether, for example, it was possible to do so. had knowledge that prisoners who were extradited risked being killed and tortured? What is the political aspect of this? Is this not just about the Left wanting to defend some prominent members who sat in ministerial posts during the period in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112122	There are so many arguments for it to be political, but let me just use one example. Without it becoming a long history, one can also discuss other situations in which Denmark has deployed soldiers and participated in conflicts, even without a UN mandate. One might then ask: why did the previous government so clearly choose to strike down these two things? It is a strange choice if you had to look at Denmark's major international commitments over a longer period of time. It was for me to see clearly a political choice to try to create myths and conflicts and to bother a previous government. And, as I said, I think that the admission that the Red Block would not stand by what had gone to the elections at the 2011 elections to allow a minority of two fifths to set up commissions is, in fact, a clear indication that it would not risk that commissions could be used in political work so that a minority could use a commission in a real political disagreement, as there has been about Danish involvement in both Afghanistan and Iraq.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112246	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112250	Well, at the end of the day, I can only say that the Enhedslisten is still fully behind that wish, so if the Left is going to table a proposal that minorities should be able to set up commissions, we are happy to be available with our mandates. But that's not the point, sir. rapporteur. What I am asking is: what is the political aspect? And then the rapporteur says that it is because it has not been investigated in the past and that it is unusual. I really do not think so, because there is no doubt that the Iraq war and the whole affair have been something that has so much absorbed the Danes, even at a very different level from the previous wars. But let's just leave it alone. If that is the problem, if that is the political one, why is it that the Left does not restart this Commission and then just ask it to look at the basis of the wars in Yugoslavia as an appendix? These must be the wars to which the rapporteur refers. Why not do it instead of shutting it all down?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112344	We have clearly said that we think the Commission has been problematic and political, and that is why we have said that we would close it. We already have. In relation to some of the debate that has taken place in the past on how to hold political responsibility for this: I was not a member of the Folketing when the first decision was taken, but I have been involved in four election campaigns where this has been discussed, and in the first two election campaigns I was involved in, namely in 2005 and 2007, this was discussed in detail here. These have been important issues in any parliamentary campaign that I have been involved in, and the electorate has then been able to assert political responsibility as to what the consequences would be for the parties who voted in favour or voted against the resolutions in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112426	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112433	After all, we have heard from the Minister for Justice a really thorough argument that it is preferable to reopen the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission rather than adopt it here. And I do not really see that the government, or at least the Minister, is so opposed to it, provided that it also examines what happened in the 1990s under previous governments. When that proposal came from the Left earlier, it was, as we saw it, solely to train the matter and sabotage the committee work, and therefore we could not support it at the time. But if this is a prerequisite for us to get it going again, then at least from the SF we will be very, very willing to look at it. That is why I would like to ask you a very specific question: if a motion for a resolution is tabled in this Chamber to reopen the Commission and include the events of the 1990s in Yugoslavia, will the Left vote in favour of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112538	I have to say that what we are discussing now is this resolution and I have explained our position. Then, of course, it is possible that we will have various discussions during the work of the committee, and there we will, of course, deal with the proposals that are coming and then we will have to discuss them there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112555	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112559	I think this is very interesting, because it suggests that there is such an opening in the Left that one would like to discuss these things. I understand that, because it is not possible to go against what a majority in the Danish Parliament says over and over again. It's happened a few times here. So you have to find some kind of runway, also in relation to this one, and it could also be according to what Mrs Mette Bock said to Jyllands-Posten the other day. That is why I think it is an opportunity for us to have a discussion in committee after the debate here today. So I think that can be an end to what we may all be able to live with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112640	Well, it seems that there is a basis for some discussion among the parties of the Folketing, and it is always sensible to show that we can have a good discussion of different options. I look forward to that, of course, and we take an active part in it, just as we always do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112656	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226112708	These wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have affected the lives of infinitely many people. Both civilians and soldiers have been killed and wounded; they are prisoners who have been tortured; and Iraq and Afghanistan are currently also left in total chaos. That is precisely why it is so important to examine what Denmark's role was in all this and what happened. For it is a very, very serious matter to go to war, and if the politicians who sat here in the Folketing and sent Denmark to war will not accept responsibility for what has happened, where are we? I think it is simply an arrogance which goes infinitely far when the Left is apparently willing to hide the truth in order to protect its own, even if that means that as a country we will not be able to learn from the mistakes and do better in the future. It is so clear that there have been so many cases after the resignation of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commissions that things have been leaked, things that have come out through public access to documents, that you can see that there is no trace of the truth in the fact that everything should have been elucidated. There are plenty of things that need to be examined. We had a discussion earlier today about what the soldiers' trade unions have said in the case. Now I have just had the opportunity to google a little, and I would say to Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party, to Flemming Vinther, chairman of the Army Constable and Corporal Association, e.g. I've changed my mind about this after all these cases have come up. On 28 November, he told Politiken that so many things had come up that you owe it to the soldiers to have this checked out. Well, I just have to say that I look forward very much to the opportunity for us to resume this Commission work as soon as possible. But today, of course, it is a step in the right direction to have the documents put forward, and I am very, very pleased to be able to see that we have a majority in this Parliament who wants it. So, of course, we support that proposal. On the part of the Enhedslisten, there are also a few things that we think it is important to pay attention to in connection with the proposal. The first is that we can already see that there are journalists, for example. from Jyllands-Posten, who has been refused access to large parts of these documents in relation to the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. This has been done because of the Public Service Act. That is why we will be tabling a number of amendments to this motion for a resolution to ensure that the documents can actually be brought to light, and we hope to be able to work very well with the other parties on this in the course of the legislative work. The second point I have made is that on several occasions, and indeed today at the latest, the Minister of Justice has been very wearisome as to whether the government will follow the majority of the Danish Parliament in relation to this proposal at all. I would just like to say that on the part of the Enhedslisten, we are ready to put forward a legislative proposal for the documents to be presented. It will then force the government to follow the majority of the Folketing, and then you don't have to think about it any more. But it should not be necessary to get there. Finally, I would like to say that in the Enhedslisten we are always on the verge of getting the Commission's work resumed, so of course we also support the Social Democratic proposal that the Commission should resume. There are plenty of opportunities, and I look forward to discussing how to open up more to the truth about the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113058	Thank you. The rapporteur must just stand still, because there is one brief comment, and it is from Jeppe Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113108	It's always interesting when union bosses make statements. We have broad experience that the LO finds it amusing to support the left-wing election campaign, but their members are voting for both the Left and the Danish People's Party anyway. So I just want to know if these new statements by Flemming Vinther have come for pressure from his members or whether that is something he himself thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113142	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say to the rapporteur of the DF that we must see how the next parliamentary elections are going with the proportion of votes to the Danish People's Party. On the other hand, whether Flemming Vinther says this on his own account or on behalf of Members, I do not know, but it is quite clear that where he has first been critical of it, he can now see that there are so many things in relation to the truth about what happened in Iraq and Afghanistan that have not come forward, and he would like that to come out. The rapporteur himself has used him in the past as an example of the fact that the army should not think that this was relevant, but then it has to be said that he has changed his mind about it now. So I think there are a lot of good reasons why I have now always meant to have this looked at in depth, and I believe that as a responsible politician you have to dare to stand up for what happened when Denmark went to war in Iraq and Afghanistan and have it investigated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113233	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113236	Then I don't think I made myself clear enough. What Flemming Vinther said in the first place was that he had not heard from his members that they had a wish for the Commission, and therefore I have not heard any new statement from Flemming Vinther that now his members think they need this commission. I do not think there has been any change in that. When I talk to veterans and soldiers, they don't say this is what determines the end of their efforts. On the contrary, what they need is a better veteran effort. This commission is something that some in this Chamber need.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113320	I believe that in a democracy we all have a need to establish whether Denmark has complied with its international obligations. We have a responsibility to investigate whether there are ministers who have lied to the Danish Parliament and what has happened at all in connection with these wars, how very many people have lost their lives. I think there are different views among soldiers and veterans as to what they think about this commission. That's the way it is. But it says in black and white that a great many key people have been out to say that the trade unions in the army also want to have this examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113354	Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur for the alternative, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113406	I am here to replace our rapporteur in this area, René Gade, who is at a meeting in Vienna. It should not be a secret that there are always some cases you would rather take for others than other cases, and this is one of them. Because this is a very, very important matter. I would like to start by thanking Mrs Mette Bock and the Liberal Alliance for presenting this resolution that we are discussing today. After all, the purpose of the resolution is to create openness about Denmark's efforts in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and we fully support this in the alternative. For the alternative, it is important that both citizens, politicians, organisations, companies and institutions have the opportunity to look over the shoulder of our democratic society, and it must be on both the good days and the bad days. Transparency is important. That is why, of course, we also believe that there must be transparency about Denmark's participation in wars and military actions, as in Iraq and Afghanistan. We simply owe this to the Danes and the relatives and, above all, to the soldiers who have served in the world. Not least, this transparency can also help us to become wiser and to act better if we have to find ourselves in the same situation again. However, although the alternative supports any step towards greater transparency, I also have to say that this proposal is far from enough if we want the whole matter to be clarified. In fact, the proposal requires only the government to present the unclassified documents, and we think that is far from enough. It is a tiny step in the right direction. But if we want answers to the most important and central questions, for example. whether people in the Ministry of Justice, the Prime Minister's Office or the Ministry of Defence were aware of abuses of Afghans and Iraqis detained in connection with the military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan during the period 2001-2015, then we need access to all documents, yes, either access to all documents, or we could restart the commission. These questions are, in fact, questions that we would like answers to in the Alternative, which is why we believe that the public should have access to both classified and non-classified documents. We want full transparency, not half a solution, and that is why we will also be tabling amendments to this resolution. Because we need to uncover operational military decisions, directives for deployment and directives for the handling and detention of prisoners. Then we also have to go because we want to get the light to find the way that led to the decision we made to participate in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about that. The Minister of Justice says it's dangerous to present these papers, and then I don't understand why no other solution is found. There was a commission set up. One could change the terms of reference a little and reduce it again so that we do not have to present these papers. In conclusion, however, I would like to reiterate that, although the alternative supports the proposal, we will therefore work to qualify it in committee to ensure maximum transparency, and we hope, of course, that it will take place in good cooperation with all parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113728	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113732	Thank you. How does the rapporteur think that it will affect the ability of our soldiers to carry out their work in reassuring forms if we are to have full transparency about operational and military considerations? If we give the enemy all our thoughts on our tactics, how do you think it will be possible for our soldiers to do a dangerous job with great success?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113805	For example, if we are talking about the efforts in Iraq, it has happened a few years ago. And that is why it is possible to present it today without endangering the lives of our soldiers. But this is also, I have to say again, a consequence of the government's decision to close this commission. One could have allowed the commission to continue working so that we had the knowledge and insight that we would like to have. But instead, it has been chosen to close it, and so there are consequences of that, and one of them is that we have to put these papers on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113833	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113835	How does the rapporteur envisage the Danish defence operation? Does the rapporteur think that it is the case that, when you have had some experience of how military intervention works well, you scrap them because you start a new mission? Or does the rapporteur think that it might be possible to take advantage of these experiences and build on them and thus continue them in a future mission?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113900	But the questioner is just about the crux of this problem, precisely that we are becoming more militaryly wiser, but that we must also become more politically aware of what is going on. Because, of course, you take your experience with you, but it is also different countries that I hope there is no need to go back into the same situations. So, yes, you can take some experience with you, and others you have to create from scratch. However, it is only essential that we have transparency so that we know on what basis these decisions have been made and how we have acted in the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113929	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. This is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226113938	Thank you very much, President. Let me start by thanking the Liberal Alliance for giving us the opportunity to discuss the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission once again. In fact, it can be said that the debate has already shown that there are at least three levels in the discussion that we have today. The first is, of course, the very substantial use of having an Iraq and Afghanistan Commission and the proposal put forward by the Liberal Alliance, since at present there is no majority in favour of reopening the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission in its current form instead of publishing the documents suitable for it. On the radical side, we are prepared to support that proposal. But I also have to say that this is not our preferred solution. In fact, I share several of the concerns of the Minister for Justice here. In any case, it's a difficult model, you might say. We think it would be a more clean cut simply to let the Commission finish its work. There are several reasons. Firstly, what has happened, from the Liberal Alliance, agreed to abolish the commission, that skeletons have been rallied out of the closets, if I may say so. The media coverage in the summer of 2015 showed this, and it was also the reason why the Liberal Alliance took this initiative. One might ask oneself: since we have spent so much money, so much of the commission's time digging up all these things and so only the last fifth of the work is missing, why not just finish it? The second is that we have a very real political disagreement • that the government would like to make the establishment of an Iraq and Afghanistan Commission something that was a purely political manoeuvre to suspicious the previous government that sent us to war in Iraq and Afghanistan. I just want to say again that I myself voted against the Iraq war, but I actually voted in favour of the Afghanistan war with the rest of my party. At least in Afghanistan, we were jointly responsible for all the work, so when we ask for it to be clarified, it is not an expression of wanting not to measure up to the decisions we have taken, but a question of qualifying the decisions we have to make together in the years to come when it comes to something as difficult and difficult as war participation. I myself am convinced that if I were to vote on today, I would also vote in favour of Afghanistan's efforts, but I am also fully aware that not everything in Afghanistan went as I had hoped and that perhaps we could have done some things even better. That is why I would just like to say that we have only one wish, and it is in this way to clarify everything that has happened, learn from the experience, make sure that we do it even better next time. I cannot understand why there is no majority in the Folketing who can see the same interest and the respect it is to show it to our veterans and the relatives of those we have lost. I would say that when it takes a long time for the government, for some strange reason, not to want it implemented, it really creates myths and ideas about what the government has to hide. I do not think that the government has anything to hide, but it is clear that the zeal with which any form of disclosure is avoided contributes to some form of suspicion that no one is served by. That was the first level. The second level is what the Minister of Justice brings forward here during the initial debate on the balance of power between the executive and the legislature. In fact, it was a very interesting statement made by the Minister for Justice that the fact that there is no one above or next to the Folketing is something old-fashioned junk that does not belong anywhere. That's where he hits the nerves of us Radicals, because it was Viggo Hørup, as the Minister for Justice also said. In fact, we believe that as a starting point I know the basic law; I know exactly where the boundaries go that it is a very, very strong tradition in this house that you have respect for the majority that is in the Folketing. I also believe that it should not develop into a major state administration discussion that we can talk about a shift in recent years through changing governments from the Folketing towards the executive. In fact, I believe that the executive is very, very strong at the moment, and that is why we need Parliament to put its fingerprints on occasion. This is a longer discussion. It is about the check and balance between the legislative and executive powers. I clearly believe that there is a need in these years to manifest that the Folketing is an absolutely fundamental structure in that division. That brings me to the third layer, which is that without anyone really wanted it, this debate is taking place at a time when the government over the last few weeks, I must say, has shown an incredible arrogance of power which I have not experienced in my time in the Folketing, both by neglecting a motion of resolution to administer development aid in accordance with the majority of the Folketing and then by not, as the first government ever, by taking seriously a vote of censure on a minister. That is why I sincerely hope that it is up to believers that the Minister of Justice, with his personal capacity, will do all he can to ensure that this ends with a solution that everyone can be in. We would very much like that to be the implementation of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission, possibly supplemented by other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226114514	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226114518	I would like to acknowledge that the radical rapporteur says that some of the concerns raised by the Minister for Justice in relation to the proposal we are now discussing have nevertheless made some impression. Whether or not the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission will be resurrected is not the proposal we are dealing with now. It is whether or not to hand over the documents. I just want to say that when the radical rapporteur says that, although there are some concerns about it, I suppose, among other things. If you hand over internal government documents, you are ready to compromise on those principles, because you will then use it as a political crowbar to achieve another purpose. That must be what is essential. I think that such things as legal certainty are usually something we hear the Radicals talk about, even a little more than just on festive occasions. So how can it be that the legal concerns raised by the Minister for Justice have raised access to internal government documents, even if they are prompted by radicals to say that they support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226114623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226114627	It is clear from the proposal that it is well known that not all documents can be released, and that is why we can support the proposal. But, having said that, there is no doubt that it is a mess; but it is the mess that neither the proposers nor the Radical Left have brought the government into. After all, it is the government which has made that choice and which has subsequently been able to see one story after another being rolled out in the press, which shows with all due clarity that not all the stones have been turned. Instead of taking the consequence of it and letting the Commission finish its work with all the benefits of the legal, administrative and so on. Well, it's hard to understand, I think, for most people. And yes, when there is a proposal that allows us at least to get a little bit along the way, then it is not me and the Radical Left who make that choice; it is the government. I understand that there are some of these documents that we are going to go away for all the reasons that the Minister for Justice has mentioned, and I am also going to agree that this is a very resource-intensive process, probably more resource-intensive than letting the Commission finish its work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226114737	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226114741	Now you have to take things in the right order. Well, the commission is closed, done. The Radical rapporteur says that this is a mess, but then you have to take responsibility for the mess you are making. Well, the commission is closed now, done. Now there is a proposal that the Radicals say is a mess, and then you just have to take responsibility for it. I think we should be fair enough to say that this is a mess for which the Radicals take responsibility. I just think that should be clear. What we are discussing is what comes out of the concrete proposal that lies, and the radical rapporteur has said that is a mess. But it is a mess that the Radicals want to support, and that is so fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226114826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226114829	I don't want the best to be the enemy of the good here. Well, everybody knows what I and the Radical Left would prefer. If we can support this proposal, which is going to be a mess because we need to sort out all these documents, then it is because it is nevertheless better for the public to have access to documents that make sense in terms of management and so on than it is at all to have access to any of the huge work that has already been done, especially because the alternative is that we continue to have pieces of material in the media that no one can relate to because there is no overall picture. However, the fact that we have to choose the option I would like to recognise is due to the fact that the government is forcing us into that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226114912	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226114916	So these are some principles at stake today. And I fully agree that the Radical Left is a pity that the commission was closed. That is a point of view that I have great respect for. That is why we do not need to resort to something that is worse and could have quite far-reaching consequences. In other words, one will establish a state in which a majority in the Folketing at any time can, in any case, override the rules of the Public Service Act and gain insight into internal government documents which have been written in the belief that there was no publicity. And when we have commissions, it's just that the commission can sit with these documents in confidence and that it's not all just being laid out. I would like to ask the Radical Left, which I have great respect for, and which I know as a serious and responsible party, whether they are willing to break with the practice and the legal situation we have in this area and create a completely new one, after which all kinds of internal government documents can be accessed, which could be quite cheerful, not least in view of the last government, where it seems that it was not always seen quite the same on all matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115032	I would like to make this quite clear: I do not think this is a precedent, because I think it is an extraordinary situation that, for the first time in the history of Denmark, a commission has been closed which was so close to finishing its work. It is an extraordinary situation: 70,000 documents are handed over and gnashed in a commission that sits and is about to do the last interrogations and write its conclusions and then close it just before closing time. This is an extraordinary situation. It is a breach of current practice that we usually have in here in the Folketing. And that is why, as a parliamentary politician here, one is a little chessmate, because how should one react in a situation where the executive chooses to do so. Yes, it has been backed by a majority in the Folketing, but then it has happened that in the meantime a lot of new information has come out which means that a new majority in the Folketing still thinks that there are some things we need to get out. Well, it's hard. It is not the Folketing and the Radical Left that are creating the extraordinary situation, and therefore I do not believe that it sets a precedent for quite ordinary action.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115138	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115141	Two wrongs don't make a right, as they say in English. I mean, a mistake isn't made any better by making a new mistake. And I understand that the Radical Left believes it was a mistake to close down the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission, but it does not make any better that a new mistake, even a major mistake, should be made, which will be important. For one will then experience that a majority of the people will at a later stage say: Well, that is no different than what you did yourself. The Radical Left cannot stand here and get upset about that. What is the difference between the decision of one's own time and that of another? Think it through. Be careful not to do more harm than is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115223	We consider this to be an extraordinary situation. I also think it is possible to say that it is an extraordinary situation when a Commission which is so close to delivering its work is closed. That is why we also need to use extraordinary means if a friendly solution cannot be found. That is why my last words here must be that I sincerely hope that the Left will consider doing so in this matter. It would be good for the substance of the matter, for the dignity of this thing, for the people we have sent to war. Moreover, the opposite will also be boring on top of the problems that have been involved in respecting the majority of Parliament in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115301	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115305	Thank you. The rapporteur says that these many small fragments do not contribute to a clear picture of the situation. Does the rapporteur think that a clear picture would be given of the complicated situation of going to war in Iraq and Afghanistan if more fragments were collected and a slightly larger fragment were to be obtained?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115329	So now I do not have a complete overview of what documents are available, including how many contributions have been made, so to speak the Iraqi Commission has arrived at. I think that is something of the interesting thing, because there you start to piece some of the fragments together into overall conclusions, and that would be exciting. What you can say is the challenge there is, if any person is mentioned, who should have had the opportunity to speak. But I have to say that I cannot imagine that it could be more fragmented and more messy than it is at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115404	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115407	But it is not an answer to the question of whether the situation will be clarified and you will get a full picture of it if these documents are presented. What you want here is a little like going to the theater and only seeing the second act out of five, then concluding what the whole play is about. It will not, of course, give a complete picture of the situation, and therefore this resolution will not contribute to the objective that the Radical Left claims to fight for, namely complete clarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115450	The Danish People's Party is absolutely right about this, which is why it would also be quite obvious that the Danish People's Party joins all of us who want a complete mapping and final conclusion. It's very, very simple, because it's almost done already. It will probably take a few months and not cost very much money because the vast majority of the work of the Commission is done. And the biggest mystery of all of them in this case is to me to see how the Danish People's Party has been able to be conned by the government in this area. Because I don't see that the Danish People's Party gets anything out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115521	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115524	Now we are very much in agreement that the work of the Commission must be resumed, and also that it is a good idea to bring these documents forward. However, some concern has been raised as to whether it would be legally justifiable to bring these documents forward. So I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think we can agree on this because of course this is something that is very, very important both for Radicals and for us in the Enhedslisten to find a good way to ensure that those documents come forward and that, of course, there must be ways, for example. can secure and review the documents and ensure that the necessary rules are complied with and that we can nevertheless obtain the documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115606	I very much hope so, and I hope that everyone will contribute, including in the Ministry of Justice, to finding a way to do this, which ensures as much legal certainty as possible. But there is no doubt that the best thing would be to let the Commission finish its work, so everyone had, you might say, all rights entirely on their side, including those to be questioned. That would be the best thing to do without comparison. But if nothing else will we have that situation when a future majority in the Folketing and a new government have to step in for the work of the Commission to be carried out. That's also what's a little grotesque. Everyone knows that we have stated quite clearly, all the opposition parties that next time we have a majority, the commission will finish its work unless we have found another good solution in the meantime. That's why you just put off the torment. That is why it would also be • it should be my last call • completely incredibly wise and desirable and would be looked at with very great kindness, at least on my part, if the Minister of Justice, with all his personal capacity and political ability and impact in the government, would be at the forefront of the breadth of decisions that this requires and would have very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115716	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115717	I really think that was a very comprehensive answer. I look forward to working together on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115721	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115723	Then there are no more brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and then we move on in the rapporteur's line. It's the rapporteur from the SF, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226115744	I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance for presenting this motion for a resolution. That is why, when the government took office, it decided to put an end to the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission, the Commission that was well under way, and whose President said that it was now time to reap the fruits. That's why he was very sorry that it was shut down. It has to be said that if the government had thought that the closure of the Commission had shut down the discussion, then it must have come to other thoughts. On the contrary, the debate has flared up afterwards, because there have been leaked documents from the Commission work. In my view, some of them are extremely interesting: documents that can shed a whole new light on the Iraq war and the decision to join in the Iraq war, shed a whole new light on Denmark's cooperation with private security companies, shed a whole new light on the way in which the prisoners were handled. In other words, it is not closed. The discussion is not closed. However unfortunate it is that the Commission was closed, it is a good thing that the Liberal Alliance is trying to save as much as possible by putting forward this proposal for publication of the documents so that we can have the opportunity to look at them and the researchers and historians can have the opportunity to do so. It is also an important matter that this can be uncovered by various scientific people, so that it does not just become part of a political discussion. That is why, of course, we support this proposal. There have been a number of objections to this, and we must have that discussion. It seems to me that some kind of landing is being planned for what is interesting. I must say that not least after hearing the Minister for Justice's reasons for not wanting to support this proposal, where he is actually arguing that the work of the Commission should have continued instead, and also Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen's answer to my question earlier, where he says that if we in committee can find a solution, it may well be that we have to do so. And a runway could be that the Commission was reopened and then added what the bourgeois parties wanted before the elections, namely that it should also investigate the wars in Yugoslavia in the 1990s. At the time, we were against it because we felt that it was an attempt to put sand in the machinery to have it exposed so much that it could not really be finished and examined the Iraq war, but if it is the price of resuming the Commission, we are certainly very willing to look at it too. I think that is really interesting in today's debate, namely that the reports in this Chamber have opened the door to the resumption of the Commission's work and, if it comes out of the debate on the LA resolution, I think it would be quite, quite positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226120141	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226120145	Thank you. I share the view of the rapporteur, namely that there is an exciting development in this matter, which may open up a solution for reopening the Iraq and Afghanistan Commissions. One of the things that was mentioned from up here also by the rapporteur of the Left as a problem was that previous war efforts, which have also been seen as being contrary to the United Nations laws on war, etc., were not included in the Commission. That is why I would just like to know whether the SF is prepared to extend the mandate, so that for example. The war in Yugoslavia and the basis for it will also be covered if that is what can open up for us to have an investigation into these very serious conditions, not least in Iraq and Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226120235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226120236	Oh, yeah. There's nothing to hide there. We did not want that at any time. When we were against it earlier, it was more of a practical argument that it was not all too far-reaching. But we have no political objection to including the extension of the mandate with the war in Yugoslavia. So if this solution can make this work, we will support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226120306	Sir. Pelle Dragsted apostates. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Mai Mercado. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226120319	Thank you for that, President. I'd like to say hello to our defense rapporteur, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, who unfortunately cannot be here today. After all, the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission was set up in 2012, and the Commission was set up, among other things. examine and explain the background to the Danish decision to participate in the war in Iraq. Then it should also examine what the Danish authorities had done in connection with the detention of persons during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Then, in July last year, the Left Government dropped the Commission, and we supported this, because after a great deal of disagreement within the Commission, where progress in the work has been small, it was also clear that it did not make sense to continue it. The Liberal Alliance has then put forward the proposal we are debating here today that all unclassified documents should be published. These are merely documents which do not affect the security, defence or other foreign policy interests of the empire. We appreciate openness, including increased openness, and that is why we think it is actually right that documents that can be published should also be published. That is why we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226120432	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Mette Bock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226120451	Thank you for that, and thank you for a very exciting debate, I think, an open debate, in which, in fact, if not barn gates or doors have been opened, then at least windows, so that we can find a joint solution to this problem. I would like to thank both the Minister and the other rapporteurs for this and, of course, the rapporteurs who will support this resolution, which now seems to have a clear majority behind it. I'd just like to take a look a little bit and not just look at the cashiers we're holding now, but also look at what it is that's the more principle of this. For today we are not only discussing motion for a resolution B 52 on the issue of the documents of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. The next thing we really need to do is to deal with the question to the Minister for Justice about the consequences of the amendments to the law on public disclosure in the administration that were recently adopted with draft law L 144. And the two things are connected in that we live in a time when there is a tendency for the state to close up more and more about itself. A few months ago there was an idea historian, Mikkel Thorup, who published a really exciting book called the State's Idea History and which I can recommend others to read. In it he reviews what has actually happened historically about the relationship between state and civil society. And what I think is really exciting is that he's saying now I'm not going to follow the analogy or the metaphor myself that today it's as if the state is almost considered a god. It is the state that controls us, it is the state that takes care of us, and the state does not tolerate us calling into question its position of power. That's why the state is closing down on itself more and more. Another point in the book is that in times when there is terrorism and things are happening in the world that make us nervous, that we get scared, that we need to protect ourselves, there is a tendency for states to immediately seize it as an opportunity to say: Now all of you can understand that we have to roll down the curtains, because we cannot have ordinary citizens looking over our shoulders, that is simply untenable. I think that is some interesting points and perspectives to bear in mind, both when we discuss the Public Access Act and when we discuss this very specific matter. The case is old. In 2011, when we had just had a new social democratic government, the first meeting I attended was with the then Foreign Minister, Villy Søvndal. There are several of those in the Chamber today who were also present and the first that came out was that now this commission was to be set up. I have to say that we can interpret things very differently, as we know here in Christiansborg that I saw it as a clear political teasing. And I actually understood that it was thought that by setting up a commission everything could be clarified, everything could be brought out, that there could no longer be doubts about anything, and that thus the truth was brought out with great S. I simply do not think that such work by the Commission could be done, and that is why we voted in favour when the new government, after the change of government in June, proposed the closure of the Commission. We voted in favour of this, but since we are in favour of this openness, we cannot close our eyes to the fact that there is a reality which is that there has been a Commission. It had a little difficulty getting started, but now it had collected some documents, and what did it do to prevent those documents from being presented so that the public could gain insight? Now we hear that this is about approx. 70,000 documents. In the motion for a resolution we state clearly that there is great respect for the fact that there may be classified documents, that there may be considerations of state security and that there may be considerations of the defence of the empire and of relations with other countries, etc. And since we had recently consulted on this matter, it was quite clear that the political parties supporting this motion for a resolution all had an understanding that, of course, there can be documents which cannot be presented. The problem is that we cannot know what documents the government does not want to present, and that is why the first step must be for the government to tell us what we are talking about here. In the case of 70,000 documents, is it 10,000 documents that cannot be produced, or is it 5,000 documents that cannot be produced? At least I do not have the imagination to imagine that there can be 70,000 documents that cannot be presented and that no one can look over. That can't be right. So the hope is that now, having waited to hear some words from the Minister for Justice, we can move forward in committee and actually try to make sure that there is a real possibility that we can find a common way forward. I am actually quite convinced that this can be done. I certainly do not think that I have become less optimistic after listening to the debate here today and having listened to what the Minister of Justice had to say. I would like to stress that I have very much confidence in our wise Minister of Justice, who actually has empathy too. I think that is one of the new values of the Alternative, which I have read out a bit here in recent days. So my hope is that here together we will find a way forward and can have a real and substantial discussion about what is going to happen. And I think I'm gonna finish it from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121047	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121051	Thank you. When the Liberal Alliance first came up with this proposal that the documents should be released, I thought it was a free round, because if there were no classified documents etc. etc., was it not just the documents we would be able to obtain through public access to documents? Then I heard an interview with Mrs Mette Bock in Orientation, which surprised me positively, in which Mrs Mette Bock stated that it is not therefore the government that decides which documents you choose to classify, if you may say so, or not hand over. These are the documents that, when they were, what to say, created, journaled, were classified so not a tag self-var to the government. And I think that is very, very positive. Because, of course, we have a concern, as has been said, for the protection of personal data and what it may be, but on the other hand it is of no use if the government can sit and do cherry picking and say: No, in relation to this document there is probably something about the security of the realm, so we would rather not have that. That could be said because, for example, it does. could burden one of the former ministers of the current governing parties. So it is just to confirm here, too, from Parliament's platform that it is in the understanding that the rapporteur feels the way we heard it in Orientation, namely that it is about the then classifications and is not something that the government can do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121207	On the whole, I always feel really bad when I hear that something is being done retroactively, and this also applies to classifications. But classifications do exist at many different levels, and we have heard mention of other types of documents, in fact from other parties too, which one might choose to take out. The problem is that we are not only encountering classification here, we are actually running into the public law that we are about to discuss. And that's why it's not a simple matter to figure out how to systematize this. I therefore believe that we need a longer and more thorough discussion in which the parties involved sit down and find out: how do we actually do this? However, what is retroactive is a principle that we certainly do not like in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121251	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121252	So we can at least conclude that a criterion is not that the government thinks that a document is inconvenient for it not to be presented. Well, it's just like getting it stressed. The second question I would like to ask is: in the light of the debate that we had today, is it in the view of the rapporteur a possible end to this whole process that a renewed Iraq and Afghanistan Commission should be set up to continue working on these documents?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121318	I do not think that we should close any doors today. So for the time being, it is about keeping as many doors open as possible so that we get as wide a room as possible to discuss from. To the first, i.e. the thing about what is uncomfortable for some, I would say that one must of course always have empathy in order to understand. However, I would like to say that some arguments are, for example, provable. This whole thing about how it's difficult or how it costs money. Although we like to take care of the money in the Liberal Alliance, we must say that there must be more serious arguments than discomfort or that something is difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121351	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121354	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I think it is very good that this discussion is coming back up again. It is clear that in the Enhedslisten we believe that the work of the Commission must be completed and we were sorry that the Commission was closed. But I certainly think it is a step in the right direction to have this discussion on how we can get these documents out and also to have the discussion on how we can do it in a very good way. Some of what I think we are all a little worried about here today is whether the Minister of Justice and the government will actually follow the majority that is here in Parliament for it, and I would just like to hear from the rapporteur, if it is not understood that this is very serious and that in fact there is a very great desire in the Liberal Alliance to find with us a model that will ensure that these documents come forward in one way or another • whether there will be a bill that will have to oblige the government to do so, or whether there will be some kind of reopening of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission, or whatever.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121501	We from the Liberal Alliance are willing to search every opportunity. I would also like to say quite openly from the platform that I think it is important that the parties behind this motion for a resolution should not be held apart in the future, but that we should actually have an open debate and see what opportunities there are. Because we also have different approaches to this and different backgrounds to support the proposal, as I am listening to it. But let us now try to keep as many doors open as possible and then see how far we can get together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121530	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121532	I look very, very much forward to the work on this motion for a resolution, and I hope that it will succeed in achieving a solution that will create more openness on the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121544	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121546	Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. The Minister has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226121606	Thank you for a rare fundamental and interesting debate. It is gratifying when this kind of thing takes place in the Assembly Hall. There is, of course, a close link between the debate we will be having in a moment and this debate. Both things really have basis in each other. I can also hear that from the opinions expressed. That is why I need to say a few things, both in relation to what has been said about the publication of internal government documents and the issues of the composition of democracy, which is what the radical, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has said. Martin Lidegaard made some observations. There is a quote that has made an indelible impression on me and that I have been pondering a lot over recent years. It is the Norwegian philosopher Knausgård who writes that the next time the enemy arrives, it comes in a form we love and love. I can't help but think about it when I hear this basic debate on openness in relation to the Iraq War, too, where I disagree that the authorities are stronger than ever. I also disagree that things have become more closed than ever. On the contrary, I see an openness penetration everywhere, and I also see that the authorities are weaker than they have ever been. That is why we have to face up to the fact that it is important in the framework of a democracy that there are authorities which can also protect the weak, so that no one can be exposed, for example. a public court. This is part of this discussion. That is why I have to say that this government does not share the view of the Social Democrats and the Radical Left that the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission is extraordinary. It's not fair to use this case as a crowbar to say that right here we don't care: right in this case we choose to publish the internal government documents. I'm just saying. We do not think it is right that this is in principle any different. On the contrary, the government believes that it is an expression of the two parties' self-righteousness and determination: right here we have a politically opportune case for something else, so that we decide that everything is disregarded, because we think so. I think that calls for thought. But I also think I owe it to you. We do not believe that this is an exception, and if you choose to do so, you choose to do it, and then you have to do it, and then you have to take the consequences of it. In relation to the democratic considerations, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard is making himself felt, and where he says that the executive has become stronger in recent years, I do not necessarily think that is true either. We have a government with 34 seats. There were three parties that wanted to assume government responsibility. The fact is that the Folketing has a tremendous power. The Folketing may at any time decide whether a minister should sit or not. If you don't like my hair, and there have even been votes on that in various media, then you can decide that I'm no longer going to be a minister. There is not even a requirement for an objective reason. You can dismiss a minister because he hasn't set a star. You can do that. And you can overthrow a government. You can do that. That is why I do not share the view that the government, the executive, has become stronger over these years. I don't. When you talk about the constitution, and that, for example. I should not have to take the parliamentary rules seriously, so I would just like to say: I have a huge respect for the Folketing as an institution. It is not my party, for example. has introduced a Trendlov, which was overruled by the Supreme Court. And I do not see that the fact that you relate to what the rules of the Constitution are can ever be a disrespect. That is also why I say when I am accused that I do not necessarily want to answer where the views of the government end: there is a division in the constitution; we find out about that; and of course the Danish Parliament must be informed in good time if I intend to do anything other than what the majority of the parliament expects of me. In addition, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think this has been a good debate. I also think that it has uncovered some dividing lines, in relation to what this is really about, which has been more nuanced than they have actually been in the debate that has been like this for the last two to three years. And I think that as a colleague one should be allowed to rejoice over that. Let me conclude with the following observation: I am embarrassed that, in addition to the resources I may have as a minister and the government may have as a government, there is a law on commissions which allows a majority in the Folketing, whatever the government may think, to do or could, independently and with direct effect, to decide to set up commissions. There's nothing a government can do about that. And, of course, that's in the room we're talking to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122209	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first is sir. Martin Lidegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122214	Thank you for the many interesting observations. We will probably not be able to complete all the discussions that the Minister of Justice is raising here today, and certainly not under short remarks, but I shall look forward to that. I would just like to say briefly that we regard it as an extraordinary situation for an extraordinary Commission to be closed immediately before it is about to publish its work and carry out the hearings which belong to the paperwork, if I may say so. But what I really want to ask the Minister for Justice is: is it not a very healthy principle if we now peel all the more academic discussions from the fact that there are serious, even extremely serious, reasons not to follow a majority of the people? Can't that be the starting point?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122301	I'm gonna want to answer half-poleically. Just as it is the right of the Folketing to dismiss a minister on account of his or her hair, it is also the right of a government not to follow the majority of the Folketing for whatever reason it may now have. Well, that's not the same thing as it's smart, sir. Martin Lidegaard. It is certainly not the same as that it is wise. And it would probably be wise to have some fairly serious reasons, which then also meant that the majority that might be in the Folketing did not go into full consequence and had some sort of thought to say: well, then we have to do something else. The easiest thing would be to say: of course, a government must have serious reasons not to follow a majority of the people. Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122359	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122400	I understand that the Minister for Justice would like to make this such a fundamental legal issue in relation to the Constitution very quickly. But as the tanned lawyer, the Minister of Justice, he also wants to know that the context in which the law speaks means that. And I would like to ask it as a question: does the Minister of Justice understand that some of us are a little concerned about this question, on top of the fact that for the first time for a very long time the government overhears a motion of censure and apparently does not intend to follow a motion of censure, at least as usual, before it has been in the Chamber, and by the way, we also have an outstanding one in relation to the resolution on the Climate Act and that a pattern is beginning to emerge here which makes it appropriate to ask this question. Or does the Minister for Justice think that it is really such polemical and persecution of innocent politicians with or without good hair that the parliament is currently so concerned about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122505	Of course, the government is following a motion of censure. Anything else would be a violation of the Constitution. But what we are talking about here is extra-parliamentary activity; it is just expressions. And there's a big difference there's a big difference. There may be a long time before something happens, and a government must be allowed to act. And if sir... Martin Lidegaard asks about the more principle, I would have liked the then bourgeois government not to have signed the Palestinian Special Act, which has led to serious accidents for this society. I would also have liked the then bourgeois government not to have followed, for example, in the 1980s. The Radical Left and the then left-wing majority in footnote policy on which Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, who is all familiar here, once said: It is a pillar of shame. He's ashamed that it happened. So it took what, 26 or 27 years? Now I don't remember the history. So I don't think you can see that square on it. But the examples I mention here are very special. These are some who, in the light of hindsight, probably should have been handled differently, but I wasn't there then. However, it has had great costs for Danish society and for the vision of Denmark in foreign policy that the two things were allowed to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122624	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122626	Thank you for a good debate. At any rate, it seems to me that there is now a picture that we are a majority here in the Danish Parliament who would like to have more insight into the documents dealing with the Iraq war and the Afghanistan war. Of course, for us in the Enhedslisten, it is also important that this happens in a way that takes care of sensitive personal data, etc. It has to be said that the whole process will be much easier if the Ministry of Justice helps to put a good framework around it. So, as in recognition of the fact that there is now a majority, would the Minister not say: yes, I would like to enter into a serious discussion on how best to achieve the openness that is now being sought by a majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122718	So, I think it is too early to conclude, understood in the sense that Mrs Mette Bock also said that there are many outcomes rooms. After all, with all possible respect for the part of the Danish Parliament that Enhedslisten constitutes, it is not the government's most important duty to support the Enhedslisten agenda in these contexts. The government has its own, and we will, of course, work on that in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122744	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122745	It is in many cases that the government has a different agenda from the Enhedslisten. I hope so). But it has to be said that, after today's debate, it is clear that we are, after all, a majority of parties who think it is very important to have this transparency about the documents in relation to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. So can the Minister still put his hand out a little while longer and say that the Minister would actually like to take an active part in this and work seriously on the next piece of legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122815	I can guarantee that I am working seriously and actively on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122821	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Bock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122824	Thank you. I'm just starting to worry again, because now we're talking into who's to blame for what and who did what when, and that's a little too bad. But can the Minister admit that there is a difference between acting wisely and acting wisely? You can act wisely in such a way that you can think tactically and legally and everything else, but it is not very certain that it is wise to do so, even if you have the right on your side. Therefore, I would like to hear whether the Minister can confirm that the Minister is willing now, with an open mind, to enter this room where we have described a number of options and to discuss how we can move forward, not only by putting power and law behind us as a Parliament and saying that we are now beating the Minister of Justice on top of our heads, but so that we can actually find a solution so that we do not have a conflict, in this case between the legislature and the executive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122917	How am I supposed to answer Mrs Mette Bock's question? So, I actually think in my concluding remarks I tried to say that this government is very aware of the situation it is in. And I very much agree that acting is not always the same as doing smart things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226122936	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. I should like to know if anyone else wishes to speak. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226123000	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 1 March 2016. We go first to the explanatory statement from the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mrs Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226123031	Thank you. I think it is very well planned that, following the previous debate on the motion for a resolution, we now have a question on the Public Service Act. The question is that we are asking to know what the Minister can tell us about the consequences of the amendments to the law on public disclosure in the administration adopted by Bill No. L 144 in the parliamentary year 2012-13, including what forward-looking considerations experience gives rise to. The reason for the question and for the call for this question debate is that it is now just over two years since the revised Public Procurement Act came into force. This means, of course, that the first experience has been gained with a number of controversial provisions, the introduction of which includes: gave rise to the signing of 85,000 citizens of Danish civil society in protest. They were worried. We had a large journalistic corps which, of course, was also concerned, because this is a large part of the basis for their work. And we were also able to see that this gave rise to a deep division here in the Folketing quite across traditional political divisions. Since its adoption, several newspapers, including Jyllands-Posten and Information, have documented that the seven-day deadline for access to documents guaranteed by the new law is very often exceeded by several weeks. The daily newspaper Information has also identified that the highly discussed section 24 on information for ministers has been applied throughout 360 out of 410 decisions, while section 27 on the exchange of documents between authorities, etc. has been used as much as 50 times. So even if it were envisaged that the law would not result in a restrictive use of the clauses, then practice shows otherwise. And that is the reality that speaks. The fact that the law has given rise to secrecy and cover-up must of course give us all cause for reflection, and I must not hide the fact that the questioners have noticed that there is a certain amount of grain in the political landscape. That is why it is so important to gain insight into the government's thinking and also to have a debate on them in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226123253	Thank you. That was the reason. Then we move on to the answer, and it's with the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226123308	The subject of the question today is the consequences of the changes to the rules on public disclosure adopted by the new Public Procurement Act and the forward-looking considerations it gives rise to. Before embarking on the forward-looking reflections which the question raises, I would like briefly to outline what the new public law is about. Not least, I want to do so because, from the point of view of the debate, a large majority of the Danish Parliament adopted the new law at times. The new law was adopted in June 2013 and entered into force on 1 January 2014. So the law has now worked for just over two years. The Act replaced the previous Public Procurement Act, which was from 1985. The new law was based on a political agreement reached between the then governing parties, the Social Democrats, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party, as well as the Left and the Conservative People's Party. The new law and the political agreement were based on a thorough preparatory work by the so-called Publicity Commission, which had been given the task of drafting a new public law. The purpose of the Commission's work was to strengthen the basic principle of openness and democratic control of the Public Service Act and to adapt it to today's circumstances. Particular attention was paid to developments in relation to the use of state companies, outsourcing, digitisation and changes in cooperation structures in the administration. The proposal drawn up by the Publicity Commission was essentially the same as the one adopted by a large majority of the Folketing as the new Public Procurement Act. In many ways, that law continued to build up the basic principles of the law previously in force. At the same time, however, the law contains a number of new rules. On a number of points, these are rules which extend the transparency of public administration, but there are also rules that restrict transparency in relation to the previous law in force. I would like to highlight some of the amendments made to the law. The new law extended the scope of the law to include the National Association of Municipalities and Danske Regions as well as certain state-owned companies. A right to so-called data extraction has been introduced. In other words, if requested, the authorities must compile data from their databases. There has also been an extension of the so-called extracurricular obligation, which now also includes so-called internal professional assessments. This means that there is access to the professional basis behind legislative proposals and other policy initiatives, even when they are only provided by internal documents. These are major extensions of openness. And that is just part of a whole series of enlargements that have happened to the law. However, it can be noted that the focus of the debate on the Public Procurement Act has not been on examining and clarifying the expansion of transparency that has taken place with the law. Both before and after the adoption of the law, the public debate focused solely on the limits of transparency that have been imposed on the law. In this context, particular attention has been paid to the new provisions of Articles 24 and 27 of the Act. no. 2. And section 27, no. 2, provides for an exemption from access to documents exchanged between a minister and members of parliament in the context of certain political processes. Both provisions aim to protect political processes and those processes are an indispensable part of the drafting of legislative proposals and other policy initiatives. The rules ensure that there is an opportunity to exchange proposals, views and ideas within a government with its own official capacity and in a negotiating situation with different parties, without there being any insight into them. What is basically insight into is the final result, the facts, the professional assessments that have led to the outcome, but, by their very nature, not the preliminary proposals and exchanges of views that have been part of the process. After all, they do not affect what is going to apply to the individual citizen. When you hear the debate, you almost get the impression that the concern to protect the internal decision-making process in a government and in a political debate is not a legitimate democratic concern. One gets the impression that the best thing would be for discussions between ministers on the content of political initiatives and that discussions between government and party rapporteurs on political agreements should take place in TV2 News directly or in other forms of completely open forums. I do not agree with that. I do not agree with that at all. There is hardly any organization, company, association or anything else that can work without the possibility of internal discussions, which are not shared with others, about what to land on by solutions in different situations. This applies to political parties. This applies to other associations. And that probably also applies to mediaed actions. It is clear, of course, that for a government there must be a very different degree of openness than for private associations, political parties and mediaed actions. That's why we have a public law. But if we do not recognise at all that governments with their own official apparatus also need to be able to exchange ideas, views and proposals both internally and in political negotiations, without having a look at them, then the debate is completely off the rails for me. It is not to say that it cannot be quite understandable that, by its very nature, positions other than those of the government can be taken on whether, with the new public law, we have hit the right cut on that point. You can. However, there is a tendency to completely ignore the considerations underlying the rules. There is nothing new in the fact that the internal and political decision-making process is protected by the Public Act. A number of documents could also be exempted from access on the basis of the public notice previously in force. However, the regulation in the 1985 Act was somewhat more random and incoherent than it is today. Before the new Public Procurement Act, documents could thus be exempted from exchange of documents between ministries on public access to documents, but not documents exchanged on notices or other policy initiatives. Documents exchanged between offices and departments of authorities could be exempted, but if documents were exchanged between other ministries, they were subject to public access to documents. Documents prepared for ministerial meetings could be exempted from access to documents, even if they had been exchanged between ministries, but if the documents had been prepared for discussion at official level, they were subject to public access. The new law lays down a clearer definition which focuses on the context in which a document is exchanged and, if the exchange takes place as part of a political decision-making process, the documents are not, as a rule, subject to public access to documents. We can agree or disagree with that, but that there is a need to take account of the internal political decision-making process, there is nothing new in it. At the same time, of course, I recognise that the provisions I have just mentioned in particular have given rise to considerable debate. And, as you know, it became part of the political agreement on the law that, at the beginning of the new year, when the law has been in force for three years, an evaluation of these very provisions must be initiated. In the first place, it follows from the agreement that the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament must be asked to state whether the practice of the authorities in accordance with the rules is in accordance with the rules. On the basis of the Ombudsman's opinion, the Ministry of Justice is required to draw up a report on the experience gained with the provisions and on the law, and whether there is a need for change. That statement will be debated here in the Folketing. I think it is really important that we have a thorough and consolidated work in this way to base our discussion on the Public Access Act. In the circle of parties behind the political agreement, we have now started discussing the closer process for the evaluation process. So, in relation to the question of what forward-looking considerations the experience of the Public Service Act gives rise to, traces have been laid for the collection of experience, and that is the clue the government intends to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226124205	We are grateful to the Minister and we shall now proceed to the debate. The first is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226124243	Thank you very much. The opposition of the Liberal Alliance to key amendments to the Public Service Act, which was implemented with L 144, is probably well known to most of us in this Chamber. And I would like to stress straight away that all changes are not necessarily bad changes, but there were particular areas of this law that were deeply problematic. On the second reading of the draft law, Mr Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, together with the rapporteurs of the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party amendments to remove the disclosure restrictions in § 22, § 24 and § 27. We did that because it was precisely in the regulations that the dog was buried. These were the provisions that we could subsequently see gave the law the nickname of the blackout law, and these were the provisions that restricted the ability of citizens and the press to look at the rulers in the cards. It was section 22 on calendaring, about which we had been told that the tightening should stem the harassment of behaviour, which could not, however, be documented to have taken place. It was Article 24 on informing ministers about which we were told that there was a need for a free space, but where we could not be told what the problem was with the space that already existed. And it was Article 27 on the exchange of documents between authorities etc. that changed the balance of power between the government and the Folketing because documents drawn up and exchanged between ministers and members of parliament on legislation or other similar political process were exempted from the right of access to documents. As I said in my first speech, the press has now documented the widespread use of the rules restricting public access. This is an incredibly sad development which we in the Liberal Alliance believe must be reversed, and fortunately it seems that we are not alone. We must stand on the side of the citizens, and we must do so in a democracy that insists on being open. I note the continued opposition to the rules of the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten, just as I am delighted that the Danish Parliament's newest party leans on their values and also wants more openness. I also note that there seems to be movement in several of the parties that originally voted in favour of the amendments to the Public Access Act, and I would, frankly, like to sign for that. I think it is good that one can also recognise sometimes that one might not have thought quite as well as one should. And it's never a shame to get smarter. Chairman of the Conservative Party, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen said some time ago that by this law we have gone too far. SF's rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, said: "It was a huge mistake to pass that law, and we have realised that. ▪ Radical party leader, sir. Morten Østergaard, stated: "We are and must be prepared to look at the discussed paragraphs, and I believe that they need to be revised so that it ensures an openness and insight, which we have some assumptions about is not there to a sufficient extent. I think you should sign for that. That's great. The journalist stand has also maintained their criticism, the Ombudsman has contributed with his criticism, and the citizens have continued to revolt over the rules. That is why, on behalf of the Liberal Alliance, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, I should like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the Government to abolish the disclosure limitation provisions in Section 22 on calendaring, Section 24 on disclosure of ministers and Section 27 on the exchange of documents between authorities, etc., which were part of the amendments to the Public Service Act in the parliamentary year 2012-13. • V 24).
ParlaMint-DK_20160226124653	The proposal for adoption is the subject of further negotiations. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226124703	I just need to get it right. Does this mean that those parties seriously propose that we simply abolish reported paragraphs without going back to the provisions of the old Public Act of 1985?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226124720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226124722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226124724	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226124727	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226124730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226124732	I can't say anything else. If there are stronger arguments for us to look at whether something else should be included, we need to discuss it. But what lies in this proposal for adoption is that we simply abolish the paragraphs in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226124743	Thank you. There will then be no further brief comments and we will go to the rapporteur for the Socialists, Mrs Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226124754	Thank you. The new Public Procurement Act entered into force on 1 January 2014. The law contains a number of rules on access to documents. The Public Service Act regulates general public access to documents held by administrative authorities. The right to seek access to documents applies to everyone, and the purpose of the Public Procurement Act is to ensure the transparency of public authorities. That is, in fact, the purpose of the Public Prosecution Act. Rules on exceptions to the right of access to documents are contained in Chapter 4 of the Act. Internal documents may be exempted from access to documents. This applies, among other things, to: political negotiating notes, internal e-mails, etc. In addition, the Publicity Act contains a number of rules relating, inter alia, to: data extraction, journaling, mailing lists and more publicity. In relation to the specific question put by the Liberal Alliance, on the consequences of the law, we find in the Social Democrats that it is part of the political agreement on the law that an evaluation should be initiated after three years, i.e. three years. by 1 January 2017 at the latest. In those words, I shall read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservatives. Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Minister of Justice has stated that the parties to the political agreement have started discussions on the subject and on the date of the agreed evaluation of the Public Procurement Act. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20160226124943	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the further negotiations. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226124950	Now both the Minister and the rapporteur mention this evaluation, but can the rapporteur confirm that the evaluation which the Ombudsman is to carry out relates only to whether or not it is administered in accordance with the words of the law, and therefore not to the question which the rest of Denmark is interested in, namely whether the law has led to a much greater secrecy and a much worse possibility for citizens, journalists and organisations to control the work of the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125021	What I can confirm, and this is also what is apparent from the proposal for adoption, is that the parties to the political agreement have begun discussions on the subject and the timing of the agreed evaluation of the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125035	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125037	That sounds really interesting. Could the rapporteur perhaps clarify this a little more? Is it yet again being discussed in a closed circle of parties that a faster evaluation will be carried out, which must also include the consequences of the law on transparency, and not just whether it is administered in accordance with the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125104	No, it is clear that when an agreement has been reached between some parties in an agreement circle, the discussions are also taking place in that area of agreement and not in the Parliamentary Assembly. So what the wider themes and timing and discussions about it mean in this respect, we take in the conciliation circle and not in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125129	Mrs. Josephine Fock, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125132	Thank you. It is the same theme: I am really curious about what social democracy will bring to the table in connection with such a discussion. Is it, for example, that the time has to be brought forward so that it becomes a faster evaluation, and what is Social Democracy thinking about the content part?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125151	Social democracy thinks that we have an agreement on a law. And that law has a very clearly defined purpose, and that, of course, is what we are discussing in the contract circle about this law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125207	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125208	Thank you. This may not have made me very much wiser, but then I would like to ask you this: make the impression on the rapporteur, among other things. On the basis of the articles in the Information, how often does the Public Access Act refuse access to documents to provide more access to documents, but that it is practically used only one in five times, as it has been calculated?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125235	As a general rule, when I read articles in the newspapers, I read them with interest, but precise figures must also be read with some thought, because they can be produced in many different ways. That is precisely why this majority of parties decided that there should be a definite evaluation by the Folketing and not by random newspapers. This is the evaluation that will take place by 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125309	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125320	Thank you. The debate we are having on the Public Access Act here today is an important debate. When I say that it is important, it is because we are very much in favour of the free press, the Folketing and the public in general being able to control the government and the way power is managed in Denmark. This is where the Public Service Act plays a major role, especially the restrictions that were made during the last parliamentary term by the law and that gave the law the nickname of the law of cover-up, a name that I think hits quite well. For example: The so-called ministerial service rule makes it much more difficult to control the approach of essential information that flows to ministers, either from other ministries or from officials. It has the clear effect that the government apparatus, whatever parties may have the power of government, has greater muscle compared to the Folketing, which is set in the world to control the very way the government handles power. But it also puts a strain on the press's ability to act critically against the rulers. In 2013, several media could tell about major cases that would never have been brought to the public's attention if the new Public Procurement Act had existed at that time when the cases were revealed. It is extremely worrying when matters that can change the way we want to do things are not brought forward and included in the public debate, because that means that things are true and that something that might be relevant to the public and to the Folketing to talk about and perhaps change never comes out. That's a problem. It is also on that basis that I can announce that we want to take a stand on those paragraphs that significantly impair public insight, that is. I would also like to extend a hand to those parties which helped to support the amendments to the Public Access Act last time, those parties which, according to the press, may have come to mind other things and are now seeing the problems. I have full respect for that. To those parties I would say: it is never too late to think about new ideas; it is never too late to change things that you think work badly or that you may not be so proud of. It is therefore an extensive hand for the so-called transparency troika, the SF, the Conservative People's Party and the Radical Left, because the position of those parties is very much crucial to what the possibilities are for changing the law. I hope that it will turn out to be a real transparency troika. I hope that the Folketing will take a stand against the rules that should be changed to ensure access to control of power. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125613	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226125635	That fg. President Yes, I fell into bad company with a member of the Bureau, I regret that and I would also like to point out where we are. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the Parliamentary Chamber. It is not culture night, nor is it the annual Christmas tree party where you break loose and everyone has access, we are in a meeting, and that means that we who are sitting in here are members of the Folketing. We are the country's legislative assembly. The work we are dealing with is important, it requires thoroughness, it requires thoughtfulness, especially when we need to revise the major laws to which the law on public access to justice belongs. The law we had was from 1985, so it's not a law you just change in time and early. This is done when it is needed when the tooth of time has gnawed into the law to such an extent that the law needs to be revised. And then we don't just sit down like that and talk to each other about what we think and what we feel, then we ask someone who understands things, sit down and write a report. And that's what we did when we last changed the Public Access Act. We took a position on the basis of a report to use a radical slogan: we are listening, end, new paragraph, also to experts. And a public law came out of this, which already gave a great deal of debate at the time of its adoption, to put it mildly, and this led us to decide that we would evaluate the law after three years. Again, it should not just be what we thought and what we meant and what we felt, but we should have expertise brought in; we should have the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament to carry out a thorough review of the provisions of the law and of whether the law lived up to our intentions etc. Following the agreement, that evaluation was to begin here on 1 January 2017. I personally believe that sunset clauses and evaluation provisions, etc. is really healthy, good and sensible. Especially when we are dealing with large-scale legislation, there can be very good reason why we should sit down and evaluate things and talk them through thoroughly: if we found the right cut, is there any reason to change things? However, I do not think it is a good legislative approach that we are beginning to waver, that the ice in our stomachs melts because we are encountering a little resistance. We knew that we would do so even when we passed the law. There was, to say the least, a lot of resistance back then and naturally enough, for those who write the newspapers were also those who were subject to the restrictions of the law on access to documents. And it is no wonder that as a journalist you want to have as much access as possible. I believe that if journalists could be allowed to decide, they would sit in our group meetings and be able to report diligently what was going on there. But it is not only journalists who decide how much publicity we should have; it is therefore a balanced consideration, on the one hand, with regard to the public and, on the other hand, with regard to the fact that in politics, as in all sorts of other things, there is a need for a confidential space in which different things can be discussed. Then there have been some investigations which are now being used by the Liberal Alliance to conclude that the Public Service Act has been very terrible, that it has pulled a cover-up over the country and that it can hardly gain insight into anything anymore. This is among other things. a study by the newspaper Information with a journalist named Ulrik Dahlin, in charge, the very same Ulrik Dahlin, who stood down in the palace square with a sign and demonstrated when we passed the law. So it is one of the demonstrators that we are now taking as a witness of truth that the law does not function according to its purpose. And what has he arrived at? Yeah, he's one of them. A number of decisions have been made which have not been made available to the public. Yeah, but there was that old law. After all, it is as if the proposers believe that in the old public law you could have access to everything between heaven and earth, and now with the new law you cannot have access to anything. Unfortunately, my time is running out, I hope, not as a member of parliament, but as a speaker in this debate, and I would just like to draw attention to one small point from the proposal for adoption which I have heard read out and which I have to say shakes me and bears witness to how little has been done about what this is all about. It is proposed that the restrictions on public access to documents set out in section 27 should only be completely removed. For example, it will. The Court of First Instance has consistently held that the Court of First Instance has no jurisdiction to rule on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters relating to equal treatment for men and women in matters relating to equal treatment for men and women in matters relating to equal treatment for men and women in matters relating to equal treatment for men and women in matters relating to equal
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130200	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130205	Now I think this is paragraph 27. 2 as far as I'm aware. I think, when you hear this debate, that you could ask yourself who has not been so thoroughly involved in the matter. So, on a question just now, the rapporteur was given the impression that if section 24 is abolished, there is no longer a closed room. That is not correct. Within the individual ministry there is still a closed room, in the legislative preparatory work there is still a closed room. So why don't we try to get a little serious now? I therefore agree with what the rapporteur says that this is not an entertainment show, even though we may be in doubt these days. But the fact that legislation has been implemented, which turns out to have exactly the consequences not only of journalists but also of all experts in the field of administration, also means that, as a politician, not least when you are a member of the Danish Liberal Party, that is to say, a party to protect the interests of the citizens vis-à-vis the State and have it as its main objective, I would say to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130311	So, in the draft text for adoption which was read out and which I was reading, there is no provision for section 27, paragraph 27. 2. And Article 27 also contains paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Article 27. 4 which deals with an exchange of letters with lawyers for the purposes of legal proceedings or a decision as to whether or not to proceed with legal proceedings. Then you have to write what you mean or say what you mean. Well, it's sloppy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130334	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130335	What is somewhat sloppy in this process is the way this law has been implemented, contrary to what everyone with experience in this area said. And what is somewhat sloppy is that you will not now recognise that Denmark has been given one of the most restrictive public laws if we compare with the countries we have around us. And this has consequences every month for the ability of citizens, journalists and organisations to look at the work of the government. This is a threat to our people's rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130414	No, I'm very much opposed to lawlessness... I am... but to call the adoption of the law of lawlessness approaching the absurd. A report has been written and there was debate. I do not think I have ever seen such a wide-ranging debate. And we had hearings and back and forth. So, fair enough, one disagrees with the result, but to call it sloppy, I do not think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130444	The next question is Mrs. Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130446	Thank you. I think it is really nice to hear that the Left is also a party that listens. And we know that a group of people had been set up to advise on this. But can the rapporteur confirm that this group actually disagreed with what should be said about these particular paragraphs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130510	I assume that the report is being considered, and it is true that there were minorities in very few areas. There is then one of the Members, Mr. Oluf Jørgensen, who has since spoken out in a number of areas where he was not in a minority, for he followed the majority. But apparently he's changed his mind since then.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130535	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130536	I am glad to hear that, because I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is, of course, the responsibility of politicians to make decisions, even if experts and people with different insights from the political point of view recommend different things. We just disagree on what kind of recommendations we have to follow here. The rapporteur then says that there were a number of journalists who disagreed on this, and some of those who have worked on it here are a journalist from the newspaper Information, who was also in the square. We may have many journalists in this country, but we do not have 85,000. This isn't just about something that some reporters have an interest in. It's a citizen's interest. - Sir... Dan Jørgensen confirm that we do not have 85,000 journalists in Denmark and that there are other than journalists who have taken an interest in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130623	Well, first of all, I can confirm that my name isn't Dan, but Jan, and second of all, I can confirm that there weren't 85,000 people out in the Palace Square. I actually took a picture and talked, and now I don't remember how many it was, but it was at least under 500. I assume that reference is made to the number of people who signed an Internet vote. And yes, it is true that there was a great deal of debate on the matter at the time of that. And I am not saying that there is nothing in the Public Service Act that may need to be amended. What I am just asking is that it should be on a thorough, objective and enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130702	The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130706	I chose to take the floor when I heard the rapporteur mention a journalist by name and problematize that he was standing down at the Palace Square and demonstrating. I hope I do not have to take the view that the freedom of expression or assembly of journalists or public servants is being denied by a liberal politician or anyone who might be interested in the legislative proposals we are discussing in this House.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130735	No, I don't understand. But I think that maybe the articles you then write on the same subject are not entirely one hundred percent objective, but are part of it. Of course, as a journalist, you should also be allowed to make a party contribution. But we just have to deal with it as a party contribution, and not in the same way as a report on which a Commission has worked. And if we go in and look at the things that have emerged, we can see that, for example, we have gone in and said that the average processing time is not 7 days, but 7 weeks. But it's wrong, and you can see that when you go in and read the article. The average length of proceedings in the public access to documents applied for was 7 weeks, i.e. the small sample in which Article 24 and Article 27 had been applied. However, it has not been possible to examine the overall duration of the proceedings. And I guess that's what's interesting. I recognise that the study that is being carried out has been a great deal of work, but it is very, very flawed and many of the conclusions that are being drawn are completely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130844	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130847	The chairman of the Danish Journalist Federation also takes an active part in the debate, and if all the journalists who have written about it here may also have a personal opinion on it, should it be part of the party's contribution every time newspapers and their responsible editors have agreed to the line that the newspapers or other media adopt when they engage in journalism about the Public Service Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130918	I think we can conclude that just as far as this law is concerned, the sun and wind have not been so divided in the articles that have been about the law. It has probably shined a little through what the journalists and editors themselves had in mind about the law, and this has not only been expressed in the leadership. So much I think we can conclude, and so I think that the press gallery that is now empty will agree with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130951	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226130955	I am going to follow up on this, because I have to say that the way we are talking about journalists surprises me a little. So, for me, journalists are part of what supports the fact that we have a good and transparent democracy. We need to provide journalists with the working tools that enable them to actually carry out their work. Somehow I think that the discussion here has taken the wrong turn, and I certainly hope that the rapporteur agrees with that. When we have a special journalist here who has had a particular interest in trying to investigate what has actually happened with the Public Access Act, I can only as a member of parliament be extremely happy that there is someone who has time and profit to dive into it. And that is one of the reasons why the alternative also helps to put forward the bill that we are presenting here later this year together with the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten, in order to roll back some of these paragraphs, which are, in my opinion, inappropriate, to the best of my knowledge. The question I would like to ask is: does the rapporteur not get an impression on the articles that have been in Information on how the law is being applied?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131109	Well, I love journalists, I love a free press, I love living a country where you have freedom of speech. I cannot understand why I should have asked such a question. But that there should be complete, total openness on everything, I do not think even the alternative. We're gonna have to find the right cut. But just to go into matter in what has been in the articles from Information, I would say that one writes, for example: How many times has section 24 been applied? It is then used 360 times in 11⁄2 years. Then you conclude that there are many. But 360 out of how many? We don't know. How many times was access granted in the past? We don't know that either. And how many of these 360 decisions would have been granted access under the previous law? It has not been elucidated either. So I think that Mrs Josephine Fock must agree with me that it is a rather nonsensical study when you get a figure called 360. If I may raise a counter-question, I would ask: what should the figure have been before the alternative had satisfied itself and said: okay, this is not so bad anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131222	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131226	Now the alternative is also very much attached to the Ombudsman's statements. I think it is important to draw attention to the fact that the Ombudsman says that this is a very important part of all political activities within the central organisation, which is now exempt from the right of access to documents. Among other things, it does. impressions on me. But I would like to ask the question which the Ombudsman actually points out to him, in any case, that the public clause, that is to say the possibility of giving the public more access to documents, is not actually being used very much: does the rapporteur not think that it is a problem that it seems as if no concrete assessment is being made in relation to the fact that the ministries can actually
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131308	We don't know yet, and that's one of them. Therefore, we have asked for a thorough evaluation. Because I fully agree that the public is to be used, and that is why we wrote into the Public Service Act that public opinion went from being something that one might be able to think it might be that the ministries use the public in different ways, and that the right practice has not yet been found. I will not reject that at all, but what I am saying is: let us now have a thorough examination of it, rather than having a hush of wild animals proposing some changes which, if we adopt the proposal for adoption by the minority, will mean that we will have a rather strange legal situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131357	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131404	Thank you. The rapporteur refers to a very thorough study of the whole way in which the new law has been dealt with. I would really like to ask the rapporteur whether it does not take a very long time to carry out such a very thorough study and whether the rapporteur does not fear that, in the meantime, the length of time that may be required for us in the Folketing to have the final evaluation, if there are real problems with the Public Service Act, will be faced with a situation in which it may have quite significant consequences in relation to information that could otherwise have been made available. Is it not a concern of the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131437	Now the Public Service Act has been in force for more than two years, and I have to say that since then there has been a story or two, and perhaps even a story or two, which both the sitting and the previous government would have liked to have been freed from, so it is not the case that we now have a public law which has made it completely impossible to create revealing journalism. So no, it's certainly not a fear that makes me unable to fall asleep at night. I would be more afraid that we were doing some sloppy stuff to now quote the Enhedslisten from the past if we went in and made a change without having the evaluation we agreed on. Can we move that evaluation forward? I will not deny that at all, and that is what we are discussing with the Minister for Justice between the conciliation parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131531	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131535	Does the rapporteur have an impression when prominent editors, journalists who have achieved a great deal of success in uncovering cases which have, of course, been very burdensome for at least some ministers, come forward and say that the new public law gives rise to great difficulties in relation to the way in which power is monitored? Does the concern of such prominent people not impress the rapporteur at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131605	It sounds as if the Danish People's Party believes that nothing makes an impression on the Left and on me. Of course it makes an impression, and that's why we're evaluating the law. Well, if we hadn't cared about the criticism that had been raised, we would have just said: well, yes. But it makes an impression, and that is why we have decided to carry out a thorough evaluation of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131631	No one else has wanted short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226131657	Today, we are again discussing the new law on publicity or the law on cover-up, which it has rightly been renamed in the hands of the people. A majority of the Danish Parliament passed this law, despite the fact that all warning lights blinked, despite the fact that a large majority of the Danes were opposed, despite the fact that virtually all experts agreed that the people with the changes would be deprived of important opportunities to keep an eye on the government's work, despite the fact that one could not give a single example of how the old public law created problems in relation to this famous closed room. For me, it is still a mystery that parties, which I normally consider to be very important to democracy, to the openness of the Socialist People's Party, the Radicals could contribute to this. In fact, I think there is a heavy responsibility on the shoulders of the parties concerned. And developments since the law was passed have unfortunately confirmed that there was a foresight in the warnings that came. The Dagbladet Information has already been referred from up here, and they have made a review of how 17 ministries have applied these new paragraphs, and the result is very telling. In hundreds of cases, the new paragraphs have been used to deny journalists, citizens, organisations access to documents which have been the basis for important political decisions. These are matters such as DONG sales, these are matters such as the Togfonden DK, these are matters such as the Nets scandal, which journalists have been unable to get to the bottom of because they have been unable to get anything but crossed-out pieces of paper. It has not been possible to find out whether the government, for example, is in a position to do so. has acted contrary to warnings from government agencies under the Ministry in question. Let us just take a topical example of how the darkening law can stand in the way of controlling the government. We have a big discussion on the agricultural package and if anyone in the future wants to gain insight into what has been of warnings from, for example, this whole process. governments, e.g. Whether this agricultural package would bring Denmark into conflict with EU directives is something that we cannot get an answer to because of the new rules of the Public Service Act. We have also just heard the history of old documents from the Iraq War, which have now been chosen with retroactive effect to grant access in the light of the new rules. What has emerged is that this public law, which was warned, is a rubber clause which the government can use as it please to avoid access to the documents that burden the government. It has become increasingly clear and has been reported from a number of the parties involved, fortunately, that there is a need to change the law and to put an end to the problematic clauses. In fact, we are in a situation where a majority in the Folketing is no longer in favour of the darkening law, and that is an important step forward. At the same time, the parties then say that they are bound by the settlement that has been reached, and therefore, for example. We cannot vote in favour of today's agenda, of the Liberal Alliance and of a number of other parties, including my own, and that is also why we must be a little surprised that the three parties which are now opposed to this law did not resign before the elections, but only raised the criticism immediately afterwards. So we are in a rather bizarre situation, where the law does not have a majority, but still continues to function to the detriment of our people's government, and that is also why the Enhedslisten has tabled a motion for a resolution which is about to be debated and which repeals these paragraphs, but after a parliamentary election, so that those parties which are now part of the conciliation can vote in favour of the law so that we can put an end to this situation. Of course, we support this today. We have done all the way to the adoption that abolishes these famous paragraphs of the Public Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226132210	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226132216	Well now the rapporteur also relies on the article from Information, where a study has been carried out and asked how many times § 24 (1). 2, has been applied and how many times § 27 has been applied. And it has then been concluded that the two provisions have been applied 410 times in total in 11⁄2 years. How low should that number be before Enhedslisten would say that it was actually okay? That is my one question. My second question is: Does the Enhedsliste know how many of these cases would have been denied access under the old law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226132256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226132258	Basically, this isn't so much about the quantitative. It is a matter of making a law that allows the ministries and others to exempt access to documents on very unclear grounds, which means that it is actually a rubber paragraph. I have great confidence in ministers and politicians, but at the same time I think it is a human and generally accepted characteristic that if there are opportunities, when you are in a situation where you know that a document will burden the Minister may use them to refuse access to documents. That's what's worried about this. It is more decrepit in it than it is in quantity. But, of course, it is said that a completely new paragraph with a completely new basis for refusing access to documents has been used that number of times.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226132404	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226132407	Then come up with a suggestion that's less rubber in it. Well, what is being proposed is simply to remove the provision. Why, then, can we not get an idea of how to formulate the provision clearly, precisely and inexplicably?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226132429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226132431	Well, as we also said when the bill was being discussed, we thought that there was in fact a room in the legislation in force which provided these opportunities. And the conciliation parties did not manage to give a single example of where this closed room had been needed, but had not been able to use it despite numerous questions in the Folketing, in television debates and all sorts of other contexts. I do not really think that responsibility lies with us. The responsibility rests with the parties which have introduced legislation which currently restricts the ability of citizens to supervise the government and thus also to monitor whether, for example, there is a need for legislation. the abuse of power.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226132518	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226132539	Then we will be debating the public law once again. This is not the first time it has happened, and it is probably not the last time it has happened. We believe that what is problematic in the current Public Procurement Act is Article 22, the right of access to documents, that it does not cover matters relating to the organisation of calendars, we believe that it is section 24 on ministerial services that removes the right of access to documents and information that is exchanged between ministries and that it is assumed that ministers may need today, and we believe that it is section 27. 2 which removes the right of access to documents exchanged between ministers and members of parliament and which deal with legislation and other political processes. Together, these clauses constitute a comprehensive opportunity for cover-up, I would actually go as far as to say, of the work of the ministers. We must recognise that this is not enough publicity in relation to the law on public access to documents. What the Public Service Act is set in the world to ensure is freedom of information and expression, it is the participation of citizens in democracy, it is public control of public administration, it is media communication of information to the public, and it is confidence in public administration. With the paragraphs I have mentioned here, I believe that the law does not live up to its purpose. You can be tempted to call it a real blackout law. For the alternative, transparency is a core value. It is a value which we believe should be defining also for the Public Act, not in a year or two, when the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament has finished his inquiry, but now. After all, we have already had a feeling here that there is no majority in favour of going in and amending the Public Access Act already now, and I think that is actually problematic. I find it problematic when, in 2014, the Ombudsman found out in relation to paragraph 24, and now I quote what he said, namely that it includes very substantial parts of all politically influenced activities in the central administration. This is therefore a very substantial restriction on the right of access to documents. He also said that it is very, very much of the political activity in the ministries that is caught by both the one and the other rule. We must note, I believe, that the contentious paragraphs, not least section 24, are actually rubber clauses which are widely and widely used, large and small. And I would like to quote the articles in the newspaper Information, because in this it is calculated that the officials use the paragraphs in question to a large extent. The figure of 360 times in 11⁄2 years has already been mentioned here from the platform. In addition, in relation to the discussion about which figure would then have been a true figure, I think that when only one in five cases gets more publicity, that is problematic. This suggests that there is not a sufficiently concrete assessment of the cases in question. Then there is the whole debate, which is also in public, about the distrust of politicians in general. I think that is why so many people, among other things. have stood down here at Christiansborg Palace Square, but also have also debated these things on Facebook and other social media, that it is important that there is openness in the administration and that the public can keep track of what we are doing in here and what ministers can do. That is why we believe that we should now withdraw the paragraphs referred to, which were not in the previous Public Service Act. So that is what we have also proposed in the bill tabled by Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party, which we of course hope other parties can support, not least the Liberal Alliance, I can hardly imagine anything else, but also those parties that have now indicated that they are willing to look at the public law. In addition, of course, I look forward to reading the Ombudsman's report when it arrives, because what we are proposing with our legislative proposal is to roll back the disputed paragraphs. In addition, I believe that we should have more ambition than that, so that we also have a public law in place in the long term that meets our name and that gives public opinion in the administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133025	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133030	I should just like to ask you about this in more public terms, because I do not think it is possible to conclude, as the rapporteur does. Well, is one in five many or few? We do not know that, because we have not seen the things that have not been made public. The Ombudsman will have that opportunity. The Ombudsman can see what it is that has been decided not to give public opinion in. The rest of us can't. So one in five can be many, it can also be few. We don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133102	So in my optics, it is high on the basis of what the previous public law was like. After all, it gives a signal that the new paragraphs are being used very, very actively and without any concrete assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133116	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133118	You can't conclude that. It cannot be concluded that no concrete assessment has been made because one in five cases has been made public. You can't do that. If one sits with the document and can read it and can see what it says, one can judge whether it is reasonable or not that there has been more public or not given any more publicity. But one cannot come to that conclusion on the basis of a figure. And then tell me, what was the number supposed to be? If it had been two out of five, would the alternative have been satisfied? If it had been three out of five, more than half, would you have been satisfied? I do not think this discussion makes much sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133201	Well, I think it does. It goes from having had the original public law to making a new public law with these paragraphs, and I think it is remarkable that those paragraphs are then used. automatic. We have to say that when it is only in one of five cases that more public opinion is being given. I cannot say what the correct figure should be, but there is at least a signal that only one in five cases gives more publicity: the use of paragraphs per year. automatic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133239	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line and the next one is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133302	Thank you, President. In the Radical Left, like most other parties here, I think we are very concerned that all citizens in Denmark have and can gain insight into the political decisions that we make here in the Folketing and on what professional arguments we base our political decisions. It is absolutely essential for a wise democracy that it is an open democracy. I also think it is crucial for a wise democracy that politicians are free to discuss political ideas and ideas without constantly risking a leak. That is what you do most from your own, so it can be difficult but also without having to discuss the participation of the Extrablade in every thought you make yourself. On the one hand, the law we are discussing here was one of the most well prepared for years of work by a Publicity Commission, but on the other hand there were precisely discussions which also led to some of the paragraphs in their final form being different from what the Commission had recommended. Now we have had the law for just over two years, we have been following the practice very closely, and there are a number of things that come to light which we in the Radical Left believe should be examined more closely and should be examined now. Special section 24, but others also think we're gonna jump in the eye. This seems to be an extremely uneven practice applied in ministries between ministries. And citizens' success in seeking access to documents must not be allowed to fall by what kind of ministry they seek access to. Here, too, in the Radical Left, we must openly recognise that the way in which the paragraphs are drafted offers too much room for manoeuvre for the administration of the rules. This is also one of the points raised by the Ombudsman on his own initiative, and we take this very seriously. That is why we want to change the rules. We have said this very clearly. And that is why we are pleased that in the conciliation circle we now have a process with the Minister of Justice. We respect that process and we look forward to moving it forward. I hope, of course, that we can find common ground here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133545	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133553	First of all, of course, I would like to sign off on the fact that you have chosen to say that it was not good enough. It's a huge step forward. But how patient is the Radical Left to have the rules put in place, as the rapporteur says the party wants? I mean, is there a deadline? Because it is, after all, every month that this law is in operation that it will have these very, I think, negative consequences on the possibility of supervising the government's administration. So there's a deadline? When can we expect a new public law to be passed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133631	A process has been initiated with the Minister of Justice. I believe that most politicians are born impatiently and I think the rapporteur will agree with that. One must have an incredible amount of patience in order to be able to exist in politics, especially in Danish politics, and yet one must also be born impatient, because that is the way to have momentum. I am very pleased that we have set in motion a process with the Minister of Justice and I hope it will go quickly. But there's more to it than that. I would also like to say frankly, as I said here, that we respect the fact that we are part of a conciliation that has set that process in motion in that conciliation circle. And we are going to work for that with all the impatience we can drive forward so that the process is driven forward as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133733	I didn't think the answer was clear. But that is a fact, and we also heard from the rapporteurs that there is no consensus in the conciliation circle. After all, we have parties which, I think, very strongly defend this public law and these provisions on less publicity, as we may well call them. What if you don't get an agreement until the summer? Will the Radical Left then be prepared to use the majority we have in the Folketing, which actually exists and which will end this? I am aware that a settlement is bound and that it is possible that it will enter into force only after an election, but are you ready to take that step? Otherwise, there is not much to be done about your impatience.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133815	Well, I think we have said this very clearly: if you can't drive it through this process to any change, then the last thing is to terminate the settlement that you are a part of. And we're ready to do that, too. But now we have a process, and so we have confidence in it, and that is why we are part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133839	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133842	Thank you. It was a bit on the same errand, one can say, because now we just saw yesterday that it is out in Jutland-Posten that many of the documents dealing with the Iraq and Afghanistan wars do not come out because they use the Public Service Act here to cover them up. I certainly do not believe that, as a democracy, we can have an interest in this happening and that it is being shut down. How long will Radicals wait until they say, like, that this has to be done and we have to stop the way the Public Service Act works? Was it this summer, or what is the time horizon for how patient the parties that have realised the problems will help to get something going?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226133940	I think, and this is what I was trying to say to the previous rapporteur, that we must be born with great impatience, but have some patience in politics, because the aim must be to change. That is what we want here, and it will end up with that too. And then we want to have a proper and respectful process about it. We have got that going now, and we will respect that. I am sure that in the end we will have a new and revised public law. That's what we're working for. There seems to be a majority in favour of this, and that, with all due respect, is the way it is going, precisely in democracy, so we will end up with that. We are in a conciliation circle that respects the fact that there is a process to do so. We've started it now. I cannot set a precise date on when that process ends, but I can say that if it does not end with changes in that process, then the consequence is that we have to terminate the conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226134044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226134046	I really hope that it will be as soon as possible that this conciliation will end, because it can be said that every day that goes with the situation we have now, there are important things in the political process that do not come out in the light of day and that we and the public will not be able to deal with and discuss and do anything about. I certainly do not think we can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226134111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226134113	I agree that there are cases which are not well explained and where it seems that there is too restrictive a way of practicing them. That is also why we have made the decision that we want to change these rules. But I also believe that the very best thing would be for us to find changes in the process we now have with the Minister for Justice, because in that case they will come into force more quickly than when we terminate a settlement which can only apply from after the next elections unless we have elections, you can never know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226134150	The next question is Mrs. Josephine Fock. The alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226134157	Thank you. I am also very pleased to hear that the Radicals are willing to look at the public law. What I would like to ask is what the Radicals are bringing more specifically into the negotiations. Is it Article 22, i.e. the right of access to documents, which does not include proceedings relating to the execution of calendars? Is it section 24 on ministerial service? And it's section 27. 2 which removes the right of access to documents exchanged between ministers and members of parliament? Are these the three paragraphs which the Radicals intend to change and bring back to what they were at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226134227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226134230	Yeah. We are particularly concerned with Article 24 and Article 27, but we have not fully grasped certain elements. In this way, I agree with some of the previous rapporteurs that there is a need to look into things in particular. We would like to have them examined thoroughly, but also quickly, which means that we should not wait until 2017. This is very important to us, because it is also there that we can then identify the problems that have arisen with the various paragraphs. We are particularly concerned about the very limited practice which appears to be particularly common in some places and the very diverse practice in relation to section 24 and partly in relation to section 27. I'll be honest with you, we're a little less clear about this calendar thing. I think it is particularly important to have open access to the personal calendars of ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226134329	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226134333	After all, these are not the personal calendars of ministers. In other words, personal, private agreements can be exempted. But thank you for that answer. Then I'll see if we can get closer to the deadline. Is this work gonna be done before the summer break? I'd like to hear that. And I would like to ask whether experts should be involved in this work or whether it is the conciliation circle itself that should sit with it without the involvement of others.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226134357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226134400	We can't get any closer to a date. Now the conciliation circle has a process, and it will of course be in everyone's interest at least in the interests of the Radical Left that this process will have a momentum, and that requires that things be examined in order to change them. And that, of course, requires technical assistance and experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226134423	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226134432	This summer I wrote to the Minister of Justice and the parties behind the agreement to have a meeting. It was immediately after the newly elected government announced that the Iraqi Commission would be shut down, and that is why it is so appropriate, as Mrs Bock also mentioned today, that we are discussing these two things in continuation of each other. The closure of the Iraq Commission was another case on top of a number of cases that have illustrated that the Public Service Act is not working and that there are things that do not come to public knowledge. Unfortunately, this approach to the Minister of Justice was of no use, but a few months later there was a joint request from the party leaders for SF, Radical and Conservative respectively, who asked for a meeting. It's a little difficult to ignore three out of five conciliation parties and we have had that meeting, albeit after some time. It was a meeting in which it was made very clear, without having to refer to it in detail, on the part of the three parties, that we naturally respect the fact that we have reached a compromise. But we also made it very clear to the Minister and the other parties, and we have also done so to the public, that we cannot ignore the fact that so many cases have come to light that there have been too long replies; that the principle of publicity is being used incredibly unevenly and too small a scale; and that there have been a number of problems and cases where it was not just weeks and months, but rather years, journalists have had to wait. From the SF we fully acknowledge our responsibility to make the Public Act. I mean, it was a mistake, but you have to stand by what you've done. That doesn't mean that you can't try to change what you don't think is working, and that's our starting point, especially with regard to section 24 and section 27. Oluf Jørgensen, as I think most people can agree, is a bit of an expert on public relations, and he has done a research project. In this research project, he concludes that Denmark is the country among the five Nordic countries with the least publicity and that Denmark has less publicity than the EU. In 2008, the European Court of Justice established the right of access to advice from the legal service of the Council of Ministers, and a 2013 ruling established the right of access to proposals that form part of the political decision-making process of a ministerial working group. It's not surprising to compare it to that at home. So in this way it is clear that in the two cases there is much greater scope for access to documents and public access to documents at EU level. I do not think it is satisfactory that we in Denmark are so far from that level and that we are making a proper bottom scraper in relation to the countries with which we usually compare ourselves. There have been a large number of cases over the last few years, and for example. there are errors in the impact calculations of the benefit reform and the support for solar cells among many, many cases. We have a process in progress, as my radical colleague also mentioned. It is important for us that something happens quickly. We respect the fact that the Minister has invited us to a new meeting. The prerequisite for what we are discussing in the Chamber is, of course, what I believe most parties actually accept, namely respect for the conciliation that has been reached. Whether you have become wiser or have been informed by the problems in the legislation, there is respect for conciliation. Otherwise, I think it will be the end of conciliation in the Folketing. That means, of course, that, if we are to have something changed, we must have it changed in the conciliation circle before an election. But it is also clear that if nothing changes, the SF will terminate the settlement. This is not the first time in the history of the world that this has happened. Finally, I would like to say that the poor person is constantly being referred to, I would almost say, the Ombudsman, who is being strapped to every wagon. It is pointed out that the Ombudsman must carry out an evaluation. But may I remind you of what the Ombudsman says over and over again, when he may feel that he is becoming a little abused politically: an Ombudsman cannot say whether a law is good or bad, an Ombudsman can say whether it is followed by the spirit and letter of the law. It is we in here who must judge whether we think it is right and proper or whether we should change the state of things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135011	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135014	I fully recognise that a settlement must be respected. That is why I am a little upset that the SF goes out immediately after an election, i.e. a few months, no, not even a month after an election and says that you no longer stand for the law. And you have not announced the same month before, that is, before the elections, whereby you would have been free in a new Parliament. But it's all history now. So what I really want to ask you is, what's it gonna take for SF? What is needed in this agreement if we are not to terminate the conciliation process and, together with the majority that may establish itself, we are to adopt something? What I think many of us are a little worried about is re-experiencing the process that was up to the last adoption of the Public Prosecution Act, where suddenly all sorts of small compromise proposals were made about public opinion, which did not really prove to be worth the paper on which they were written. So what are SF's demands in these negotiations? What kind of demands are you going to negotiate with? What is going to happen to the Public Service Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135122	I think it is quite clear that it should be taken into account in a process that some of the experts I would call them experts, that one can always discuss whether they have been there with deep concerns and specific cases where they think it is very illustrative that the law does not live up to the level we should have in Denmark. Among other things: Oluf Jørgensen and others have been in to give a number of examples of where public health interest, environmental interest and other things are not being taken into account. As I said before, we have the main focus on paragraphs 24 and 27. I agree with the rapporteur, and I also think I may have said it between the lines that the principle of public access should not even be written into a law. It is a rubber paragraph without time on earth; it is something that sounds good and which some ministries practice and some do not. We should have a much more precise law guaranteeing some specific rights and obligations, and not if you think, you can give the public a little more access.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135230	You have Section 24 in focus, but the rapporteur cannot become a little clearer as to what that means. So, that means that section 24 of the function it has today, where it e.g.. can be used to shut down the communication between an underlying board and a ministry which is one of the examples that has been promoted should be gone? Or is it just a little embellishment that needs to be done? What can we expect from the process if the SF is eventually to be included in an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135306	I'm not finally gonna lay down on it now. I think it should be a discussion and it has not really started yet, I would like to acknowledge that. I mean, we have had one meeting where it has been established from the side of the three parties that we will look at these things. But I would like to say so much that, in relation to section 24, I think we should look at whether we cannot restrict it much more. I think there may be a confidential space, but at the same time I think it should be limited both in time and form. There may be plenty of good reasons why there may be a confidential space for a limited period of time, but we think that access to documents cannot be sought for long periods of time. These are also some of the cases we have seen. And the really bizarre thing is that compared to, for example, MRSA, which is even out of the question in relation to the excuse, I can see from the President that I have to finish. I will give my example in the next answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135413	That was well seen by the rapporteur. The next question is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135420	I do not know whether the rapporteur's answer fits in with the question I am going to ask, but she can try. The rapporteur says from the platform that she will denounce the law. You can have the attitude to politics that you can choose on and off, as little as it pleases you. But can the rapporteur not explain what the legal text says about the possibility of breaking out of the law and terminating parts of the law, as the rapporteur says in his speech that she will consider?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135454	I don't have the text of the agreement in front of me. The rapporteur must be a little more specific about what I should quote after memory. Of course, an agreement or a settlement can always be denounced, but what we want is to talk about in the circle of parties that are behind this. It may not be possible, but I hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135514	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135516	But I am rather more interested in where the rapporteur, when it is now apparent from the rapporteur's speech, that SF will seriously consider terminating parts of the law • finds the basis for it in the text of the agreement. For the rapporteur must have been aware of this when she has it as part of her speech here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135542	I think we are either talking right past each other or the rapporteur has misunderstood what I said. I said in my speech, like my radical colleague, that, in the extreme, you may have to cancel a settlement. It may also be an agreement. If you feel that all options have been exhausted and that new information has been provided or you have been wrong, or whatever the reason is that you can no longer stand behind a law and want to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135614	The next question is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135621	Thank you. I have to say that I went to this debate with no hope that anything new would come out. However, it did so anyway, because SF tells us that the principle of public access to documents is to be removed from the law on public access to documents. That's the news of the day. The abolition of the principle of public access to documents means, of course, that, in cases where the law states that a ministry is not obliged to hand over the document in question, it will be forbidden to do so. So I find the suggestion exciting that SF comes along.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135702	I did not hear a question, but then I will try to draw a question from the rapporteur's comment. What I mean is that I actually think that it is quite a bad thing to have paragraphs and parts of a legal text that are so up to interpretation. And that's not just something I'm standing up here saying. After all, we have seen that there is an extremely large difference in how to interpret more public opinion in different places • extremely large difference. I'm not making demands from up here. I say that if you were to look at it again, perhaps you should clarify it more, remove it completely and replace it with something else that was more precise. I do not think that in practice it has proved to be working as it stands today. It is simply too fluctuating how it is used.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135800	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135803	In other words, if we abolish the principle of public access to documents, this means that you either have the right of access to documents or you do not have the right of access to documents. And if you do not have the right of access to documents, you cannot have access to documents, even if it would be completely unproblematic to grant access to documents. So what the SF is proposing is to remove an opportunity to give access to those cases where one does not really have the right to have it, but where the Ministry does not think that it does not really do so. Thus, an opportunity to provide more access to documents would be removed than the law actually states that it should be granted. I think that was today's news. I don't think anyone else has noticed, but at least it's from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135850	What I am saying is that I think that, as it is today formulated in the public law and as it was incorporated into the law at the time, it is a bit to make something up. The discussion at the time was that things had to be balanced a little. There were some things that were reduced, and then there was an extension in other areas. The principle of publicity has been used to make up, to restrict in some other areas, and that is why I want it to be clarified and applied in a much more systematic and uniform way. I do not think it is fair to ask questions to a ministry, but to have no right of access to documents, and then to have something more public, or some more information, while you cannot get it in another ministry. So that is actually more of a clarification I want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135943	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226135947	Thanks to the SF for having a positive approach to changing the Public Access Act. We're really happy about that. I could understand that it is primarily section 24 and section 27. 2, which SF brings into the room with the conciliation parties, if I heard correctly. Then I would actually like to ask about section 22, which is about calendaring, about what then justifies the calendaring of ministers, among other things. is not quite so interesting to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226140024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226140025	Our main focus is section 24 and section 27. We consider them to be the most serious problems. I am not opposed to looking at paragraph 22, I just think that it is on a completely different serious scale that we have seen examples in relation to paragraphs 24 and 27.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226140042	Next question is Mrs Eva..., sorry, there was a follow-up question. The questioner again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226140048	Well, I'd like to go back a little to the deadline. When does the SF envisage that there will be a result of this discussion between the parties to the conciliation so that we can get the public law reviewed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226140102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226140104	As soon as possible. We've had this meeting with the Minister of Justice, and we need more meetings. It's pretty early for the parties in the circle to look at this differently. So we have to see if we can agree at all on how to improve the law on public access to documents. In this way it can be said that nothing would happen at all if there were not this process, at least not on this side of an election, because we all recognise that there is a conciliation circle that must be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226140142	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226140146	Thank you so much. After all, in the Enhedslisten, we have from the outset said before the Public Act, because we feared that too much would be darkened. And that's exactly what we can see has happened now. That is why I am very pleased that the SF and other parties have been out to mark and say that this is not good enough, you want to do something about it. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: if there is a deadline for how long this must take, you can put a backstop on when the SF loses patience, because it is virtually every day, you can say that journalists are denied access to documents. So there's a deadline? I would also like to ask: if suddenly elections were to be called out, is that something we are discussing at the moment? will the SF hurry to cancel the settlement so that you are out?
ParlaMint-DK_20160226140246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226140248	We would have liked it to have changed better yesterday than tomorrow, but there will be a process now. I cannot stand up here and say how long it will last, but I would say that because we respect the fact that we have reached a settlement and I hear the other parties respect that, there will be nothing happening on this side of an election if it does not happen in the conciliation circle. So I want us to get some concrete work going as soon as possible. I fully agree with the questioner. It actually matters how long it takes. But it is also quite clear that if nothing happens and elections are held suddenly, then we will hurry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226140331	There are no more questions. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226140345	On 3 October 2012, the S-R-SF government concluded a political agreement with the Left and the Conservative People's Party on a new Public Act. Following the agreement, on 7 February the Government submitted a draft law on public administration. Now we have had the opportunity to see how the law works, or rather it does not work. President of the Radical Left, sir. Morten Østergaard himself has acknowledged that the agreement reached when he was in government is not working as intended. In his own words, we didn't really hit the first time. I think that is actually a very good realization. The point of introducing the Public Access Act was to extend transparency, and the new Public Access Act is also an improvement on the previous one, but we must also recognise that the law has had negative consequences, and we will rectify them. We are several parties who agree that the law is not optimal • in fact we are the most • and it is no longer a question of whether the public law is being amended. It is a question of when it will be changed. That is why I also believe that we should agree that this law will be subject to a service review as soon as possible. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that we should concentrate in particular on three paragraphs. It's paragraphs 22, 24 and 27. That is why, in the first place, we, together with the SF and the Radicals, have also asked the Minister to call the conciliation circle to discuss the possibilities. There has been the first meeting, and there I have full confidence that the Minister for Justice will call for further discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226140511	We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will not take place until Tuesday, 1 March 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160226140527	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 1 March 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
