ParlaMint-DK_20160202130014	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130024	Thomas Jensen (S) has applied for leave from 2 February 2016 cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130054	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Social Democratic Party of Western Jutland, Anne Paulin, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 2 February 2016 on the occasion of Thomas Jensen's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130117	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. That concludes voting time. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The Committee's position has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130154	The debate is closed. I shall see if anyone wishes to speak. Mrs Pia Adelsteen does. Here you go. There's a correction. I am now told that the rapporteur cannot speak, because the debate is open to two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 19 by Mrs Pia Adelsteen (DF), Maja Panduro (S), Erling Bonnesen (VU), Carsten Bach (LA), Emrah Tuncer (RV) and Mette Abildgaard (KF), and we shall proceed to the vote. That concludes voting time. In favour, 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against 20 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 19 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 20 by Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL), Christian Poll (ALT) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130329	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130352	Thank you. We have wanted to send out the clear signal that young foreigners who have been born and raised in Denmark and where integration has succeeded can become Danish citizens. In this way, we have wanted to use the opportunities to provide citizenship to actively promote integration. Once you have been there and talked to the people who have received such citizenship, and when you see what it means to them, there is no doubt that it is absolutely an element that will promote integration. They'll be proud and grateful to belong to us and to be here. I also think that we should recognise them, and that is why I think that the change that we are making now is very good, because children and young people who are born and raised in Denmark are of course Danish. That is what Mrs Karen Hækkerup said when, as a Social Democratic Minister for Justice, she introduced the possibility that young people who were born and raised in Denmark and go to school here can obtain citizenship without having to go to a citizenship test. In a few moments, the Socialists will be voting in favour of knocking back developments and abolishing that possibility. The Social Democrats have written in the report to the law that they basically believe, and I quote: 'The fact that foreign nationals who were born and raised in Denmark and who have passed the primary school's final examination have proved that they are integrated, so that they should not be required to pass the test of nationality. That is why the Social Democrats have worked to create political support for this group to be exempted from the test of citizenship. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved, but it remains the view of the Social Democratic Party. Why, then, do the Socialists not vote against? After all, you yourself did a lot of work on the fact that it was not part of the agreement, and at first reading Mr. Mattias Tesfaye that you were going to table an amendment, but you haven't. I therefore find it difficult to understand this differently from the fact that the Socialists would like to say one thing, but vote something else, for the sole reason that there must not be a single place where there is a difference between what the Social Democrats and the Left and the Danish People's Party vote in the foreign policy. Because, boy, think of some people who would say that the Social Democrats were pursuing a lenient policy? It is symbolic policy, but it is obviously the most important thing for the Socialists right now. I hope I'm wrong. If there is a good reason for the Socialists to vote in favour, then I would urge the rapporteur to come up here and give it the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130651	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Sir. Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130709	Thank you to the Radical Left for the call to come up. It is true that at the first reading of this bill we announced that we wanted young people born and raised in Denmark not to pass the citizenship test. That remains the view of the Socialists. What is the challenge is that it is not in the legislative proposal that we are adopting now that we can change it. It will be amended in the political agreement, which forms the basis of the circular, which in turn forms the basis of the bill, which we will, moreover, first deal with later, namely the law on the granting of Danish citizenship. That is why it is not possible for this draft law to table such an amendment, and that is why we have examined with the parties to the agreement with which we have concluded such a political agreement the possibilities of whether there is a basis for amending the political agreement, but unfortunately there is not. That is why we have written in the contribution to the report that we continue to support the idea that, if you were born here and passed the primary school's final examination, it should be possible to obtain an exemption or not to pass the birth test. For all of us who sit on the Committee of Insights, this may make sense, but for all of you who may never have put you into it, it may seem a little complicated. But that is the starting point. That was the amendment. The reason why we are voting for both L 53A and L 53B is that we basically do not believe that the people who are here and who are Turkish, American or Chinese citizens should be able to obtain their Danish citizenship per year. automatic; we think they should apply for it on an equal footing with everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130851	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130856	Thank you to the rapporteur. I just want to know if that means that, if there is a new majority in the Folketing after the next elections, the Social Democrats are ready to change that legislation immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130919	No, I can't guarantee that. This is, of course, because we have reached a political agreement and whether it needs to be changed is just one step or two above my pay scale, so I cannot deal with that right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130929	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130932	Excuse me, can't the rapporteur just acknowledge that this is pure hot air? An agreement has been reached which contains an element that is vertically opposed, and one has done so in such a way that one cannot even say that for what one is vertically opposed and which one is telling one is vertically opposed, it will not matter if one votes for the Socialists, because the Socialists have ensured that it can ever be changed again. Isn't that hot air?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202130959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131000	First of all, I have not said that it can never be changed. Secondly, when people are moved automatically from being able to obtain citizenship and have to apply for citizenship, it is not only the test of citizenship that is required. There are also a large number of other things that are required. Therefore, what we write in the contribution to the report is that, in relation to the individual element of the citizenship test, we are in favour of the fact that, if you have passed the primary school's final examination, you must be able to obtain a derogation or not participate in the citizenship test. That does not mean that it is the same as that one should be able to get it by declaration. These are still two very different ways of acquiring citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131039	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131043	In the discussion we had about the agreement reached by the Socialists with the blue parties, it was quite important for the Socialists to say that this deal with young people was not part of the agreement. So will the Socialist rapporteur confirm that this was not part of the agreement with young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131101	I can confirm this very easily: it was not part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131106	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131109	If, therefore, the Socialists do not have to vote in favour, as it was not part of the agreement, why on earth do the Socialists choose to vote in favour when they oppose it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131122	It is again due to a misunderstanding. We are not opposed to young people born and raised in Denmark being moved from being able to obtain a declaration to be able to apply for Danish citizenship in line with others. We are not opposed to this. We simply believe that when they apply for it in line with everyone else, and if they were born and raised here, and they have passed the primary school's final examination, it is reasonable that they should be able to obtain exemption from the one element relating to the test of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131148	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131200	Thank you. After all, the Left voted against the proposal by the previous government to introduce a declaration for this group of young people we are talking about. And there were several reasons why we did. I would say that what surprised me most personally was that even the argument we had, that it meant that this group was not even being cleared by PET, was completely bouncing off the then government. Thus, one had been able to stay on the cadastral called Denmark until the age of 18, yes, then there was a citizenship closest to per. In other words, there was no need for this group to do the security check we're doing on everyone else. That is why I am pleased that the Socialists and the government are today looking equally at this issue. Then there is the question of the birth test. I would have liked to see Mrs Lotte Rod and everyone else discussing that citizenship test a little bit down. Well, it's not a question of being subjected to mild mental or physical pressure or anything else to pass a citizenship test. There's a curriculum; there's a book you can read; and who knows, you might learn something about your country, your culture, your history. It's not like we're doing harm to anyone. This is something that we could perhaps all benefit from in reality, i.e. to read that curriculum and learn a little more about our country and our culture. So it is just a test of citizenship which is relatively easy to pass, and with it in your hand you can be even more proud that you have now acquired Danish citizenship. So it's a small appeal but I'm afraid it falls on rocky ground that you shouldn't make this the big, bad animal in the revelation. It is therefore a question of a test which is relatively easy to pass and which requires that you have read a curriculum and that you learn something along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131401	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131406	Thank you. But I am getting a little confused now, because the rapporteur from the Left says that he is pleased that we now agree with the Social Democrats on the question of no longer obtaining citizenship by declaration, is it not? And I just understood sir. Mattias Tesfaye, that the social democracy at the negotiating table had fought like lions against this. Can we not get clarification from the rapporteur of the Left: has it even been discovered that social democracy has fought? Is that something the Left has noticed, or has it perhaps been more like such a little fly on the cheek?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131446	I'm really sorry, sir. Søren Søndergaard is confused. This is a bad thing, and we must somehow make sure that something is done about it. But I cannot go into detail as to whether the Socialists have been paper tigers or dangerous lions in the negotiations. I think that is something that should be left in the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131506	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131508	No, but I would like to say to the rapporteur that the rapporteur's speech, if he stands here and claims that there is agreement between the Social Democratic Party and the Left, does not fall a little short when we have just heard the Social Democrat rapporteur explain that there was absolutely no agreement. In other words, does the rapporteur speak untruely, or has there been no record of any opposition on the part of the Social Democrats in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131533	No, I don't usually speak untrue; I don't. I don't think that's a bad thing, and then, especially from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament, so I don't understand why Mr. Søren Søndergaard brings up. What I said and we can try to rewind the tape afterwards was that I am pleased that there is agreement with the Socialists on abolishing declaration access. And then there's the question of this citizenship test, understood that we're not quite in agreement. But it has, as Mr. Mattia Tesfaye so brilliantly explained, nothing directly with the bill we are now adopting here to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131604	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131608	Thank you. The rapporteur is quite right in saying that the abolition of the nationality test, that is to say not to be opposed to it, falls on stone ground. At least it does here in the Alternative. We think of the children who grow up and feel that they are different from other children. Other children are Danish, but the children who grow up with them and who feel that they are Danish because they were born here, and because their parents are also Danish, they still have to take a birth test. Can the rapporteur not at all understand that this constitutes a psychological barrier to feeling Danish for the children who have to take a test to be allowed to be so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131644	I actually thought that in the alternative it was exciting to be different and that we should not all be so alike, but I understand that this is not quite the case. Well, I can understand that for a lot of people it may seem a little superfluous to have to go up and answer some questions in such a test. I can understand that. Conversely, there is also a reality in which, unfortunately, we have to recognise that there are children and young people who grow up physically in Denmark but who are not mentally in Denmark who are oriented towards the parents' home country, who do not attend Danish primary school, but perhaps in a Muslim free school etc. Unfortunately, there are children who grow up without being properly integrated. That's a huge challenge, but I'm sure we can explain that we can't go in like that and say, "But we think you might have to go up to a citizenship test, and you're going up to a citizenship test, and the rest don't have to." Of course, it has to be the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131743	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131746	Yeah, and that's why we don't think there should be anyone at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131754	No, and we disagree about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131756	We thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131804	Thank you. This bill is part of the agreement that we in the Danish People's Party entered into with the government, the bourgeois parties and the Social Democrats, and that is to make up for the Slendrian who has spread in relation to citizenship. Because I am fully aware that in the case of the Left and the Radicals, they would like to give out citizenship in long terms. That is the way it has been, but we are just saying that demands must be made, and this is not only due to the people it concerns. Because I think it's a good thing to make demands. It is good that you demand that you know the Danish language. It is good that you demand to be in Danish history and know something about Danish culture, but it is certainly also in order not to create a parallel society of citizens who are not at all integrated into Danish society and who may never be. Therefore, this bill is a guarantee that the people who acquire citizenship can actually speak Danish and speak an understandable Danish. What was the problem with the declaration approach was that, when you were 18 years old and were born and raised in the country, in any case, you just got citizenship per person. Declaration. We believe that it is absolutely essential to ensure that the people who give citizenship can, of course, the Danish language; that is all it lacked. Then I would like to pay tribute to the parties to the agreements, and I would also like to praise the Social Democrats, for taking responsibility. The Enhedslisten, the Radicals and the Alternative could certainly learn something from that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131954	There is a brief comment from Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202131958	Can the rapporteur not at all imagine creating a parallel society by saying that if they do not fulfil certain conditions, which they may not be able to fulfil, they will not have Danish citizenship and that the young people who are now going to pass a test feel they will grow up in a parallel society where they will be excluded from everything that automatically comes to their classmates?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132024	I remember very well what was happening in the 1970s when it was said that every demand and every task that was made to the individual was, as it were, a violation and that they were psychologically traumatized by it and so on. I just think that it is absolutely crucial for the society we have today and for our descendants that we ensure that the people who acquire citizenship actually know the Danish language and know something about Denmark. I know that Mrs Ulla Sandbæk does not make those demands and that she does not think that these demands should be made if it were up to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, all the people who came to Denmark were granted citizenship, I am quite aware of that, but that is just not our policy. In fact, we believe that you are doing your children and grandchildren, your descendants, a disservice if you continue along the path that will just destroy Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132121	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132123	I do not think that everyone who comes here should necessarily have citizenship; of course we should have lived here for a number of years, and we should want to become a Danish citizen ourselves. But what puzzled me was that the rapporteur said that it would create parallel societies if people were given citizenship, and I simply do not understand that argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132146	I believe that it creates parallel societies if it is the case that citizenship is given to people who cannot speak Danish or who speak very badly Danish, some people who may never be integrated into Danish society. I think that actually creates parallel societies. And that is what Mrs Ulla Sandbæk is doing: she is passing on the problems to future generations, and others will be able to solve them. Because you can just stand there and seem incredibly tolerant and neighborly at the expense of future generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132219	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132226	When you hear the rapporteur, you almost understand that he thinks that the legislation we are about to adopt is too weak. So I would just like to hear what kind of demands the Danish People's Party would like to see introduced. If this is almost too little and that is how I hear the rapporteur I would like some answers to what it is actually going to be. I mean, when do you really speak Danish? What kind of demands does the Danish People's Party think it is necessary to live up to in order to be such a real Danish, as I understand that one should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132251	You have to know the Danish language and be able to do it properly. I think this is a prerequisite for obtaining citizenship at all. Citizenship is a reward for proper integration. That is the starting point, and that is why we must, of course, be able to use the Danish language. And there we have set the bar so that it is a 9th grade in relation to the first second language or the first foreign language you speak, and we do not think that is too much to ask. And yes, we stand by this deal. We think it's good and fair. We think, of course, that it takes care of the fact that when you have, so to speak, got through those demands, you are living up to the conditions that should be imposed at least in relation to obtaining Danish citizenship, that is the way it is. So we stand by the agreement we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132341	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132344	It is always a good thing that you stand by the agreements you have made, I think, because there are many of us who can be happy in many ways. But that's not really what I asked. Because now you can hear about this 9th grade, etc., but if the Danish People's Party had to decide for themselves, what kind of demands did they have to meet? For now we hear that it is something of language, and it is even more stringent in relation to what is contained in the proposal in question. What does the Danish People's Party think would be the best way to make some demands in terms of Danish citizenship and language, and what kind of integration is one talking about? Does it also require a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132420	I mean, read the deal. We are in favour of this, and that is what I am defending here today. Surely I can think of some demands that we have made and are making which we would like to see implemented in the long term. But we stand by the agreement that we have reached. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132436	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132440	Thank you to the rapporteur. After all, this is not about giving citizenship to everyone. It is about giving citizenship to people who have been born and have lived their entire lives in Denmark and who have not committed any crime. That's what we're talking about. That is precisely the group under discussion here. But I understand that special requirements need to be made. There must be discrimination in relation to that group, fine enough, and that is for them to be able to speak Danish at a 9th-class level, and they must know a lot about the royal line and various other things. But why is it just them? What is the real reason why this requirement is not imposed on everyone who wants to be Danes and have Danish citizenship? Why are only those who come here or do not even come here, for they have lived here always? What about those whose grandparents have come here? Why should they not also be checked just because their parents have acquired Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132537	I think that is a strange question. When we make demands on young people born and raised in Denmark, it is because I do not believe that it is ensured that they actually speak the Danish language and speak Danish. I assume that if you have grown up in a family where Danish is spoken daily and where the Danish language is the mother tongue, you can then speak Danish. It's self-evident. But I would also like to say that when I say as far as the alternative is concerned that they just want to distribute citizenship, I could say the same thing to the Enhedslisten. I have never heard Enhedslisten make a single proposal to make some demands. It is always just a question of having citizenship, and that we must have more citizenship. I think that if you want to be taken seriously in this discussion, you should at least take responsibility instead of acting as Santa Claus and just handing out citizenship. So that is my personal opinion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132640	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132642	That's where I'm gonna have to correct Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe, for example. As far as the Royal Family is concerned, where the Danish People's Party generously distributes citizenship to anyone, we have demanded that they should be faced with the same demands that everyone else is faced with. So we actually have examples that we have made greater demands. But can't I just ask that again? How's that hanging, sir? Christian Langballes's reasoning together when it comes to being able to speak Danish at the 9th-class level and being able to speak the royal line, and what do I know when there are a lot of people who have lived in Denmark for generations who can't? Why? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132720	Well, I know that Enhedslisten is touring around with the methodology that people have to stand up and then respond to the readiness that must come as something that one thinks, so to speak, lies in their thoughts already. What is at stake is that when you take citizenship and have to take a citizenship test, you sit down with a textbook and prepare yourself, and then you go up to the exam, like Mr. Søren Søndergaard and I did when we were in the 9th grade; it is really so simple. And then you prepare for the exam, and then you go up. It may be that there are some things in the exam you have forgotten, but there is a basic knowledge that hangs on, and that is the purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132808	There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132819	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. That concludes voting time. In favour of 86 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132854	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132922	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. That concludes voting time. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202132951	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202133023	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202133057	Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democrat, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202133118	Thank you. We have tabled an amendment on the part of the Social Democrats. I can say that in the United States President Obama has just announced that the Americans need pay statistics in the fight for equal pay in the United States. At home, then, we choose the government, or rather, here, by a bourgeois majority, that Denmark should go the other way. So it is not a brilliant piece of legislation that we are out in here, and I have not yet succeeded, in spite of three consultations and 33 § 20 questions, I think I am up to, of such a more technical nature, to get a coherent argument out of the government as to why it is so important to roll back large parts of the legislation on gender-based pay statistics. We know that this has negative effects on equality, but what the gain should be is not certain. I see this bill as one major attempt at the equal pay struggle in Denmark, and I believe that what we are out in here is deeply serious for the fight for equal pay. And if this is adopted, I would also like to ask the Minister for Employment for a cup of coffee at home. Then he can say hello to my daughter and explain to her why she's 17 percent. Worth less in pay than the boys are. I simply do not think there is any reason for this. This isn't a very clever bill, but nevertheless, we're trying to help repair it. We have tabled an amendment aimed at remedying some of the worst damage to this bill, and that is what we will be dealing with and having to vote on in a moment. In this amendment, we call for companies which already receive gender-based pay statistics from Statistics Denmark to share their knowledge with employee representatives. Because if you are going to have a sensible conversation with the individual company about a possible pay gap in the company, it obviously requires both employers and employees to have the information. It cannot help that only employers have the information, and then employees, if they are lucky, can have access to the information. So with this bill, if it is voted through, we are obliging employers to share relevant information with employees so that the individual company can have a healthy and sensible discussion if there are problems to be solved and the problems can be solved locally at the individual company. It is part of a healthy business culture that you have an open dialogue at the individual workplace about possible problems in the company and that you try to solve those problems in peace and with good will. So that is what we are discussing here now, and it is not very clever either for companies or for employees' rights or for the equal pay struggle. So I think we should be helped to make this legislation a little less disastrous and vote through this Social Democrat amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202133438	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202133443	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur briefly: is there anything today that prevents companies from sharing that information, and is there anything after the adoption of the bill that will prevent companies from sharing that information?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202133454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202133457	No, but perhaps the rapporteur himself can hear the absurdity of the rapporteur's question. This is not about whether companies are allowed to share relevant information. It's about sharing relevant information. The rapporteur can, of course, use his second question to follow up and take a little more interest in employees rather than always taking an interest only in employers and the fear that employers may be forced to live under the equal pay law. So ask the second question, Mrs Jane Heitmann, and give you a little more interest in the employees, because that is what this is all about. It is a question of guaranteeing employees rights which cannot be taken away from them. That's why this bill needs to be implemented. So here's the second question, Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202133548	We just have to remember to address each other in the third person. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202133604	Thank you. It will be much easier when we answer the questions ourselves. That's a good answer, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff gave. I fully agree with that, and I would like to strike a further blow for this amendment tabled by the Socialists and draw the attention of the High Things to what the bourgeois parties and the government are doing here. I would also like to say that I am very pleased that five parties have managed to agree on a joint report contribution to this bill, just as we also had a joint report contribution to L 88 which we have just had for the second reading. After all, it promises well for the future, namely after the next parliamentary elections, when this government has run tired in its own contradictions, that we can then roll back the deterioration that the bourgeois people are setting up here. And a contradiction of the very large dimensions we have in this bill and in the whole argument for it. During the discussion of this, we have had to listen to long tirades about how hot people in the bourgeois wing are in favour of equality and equal pay, but it is difficult to stand through the tirades and they meet when they come forward with legislative proposals that deliberately reduce the opportunities to fight for equal pay in this country. Let me freshen up what the consequences of this bill are and why it is good that the Socialists are tabling their amendments. The consequence will be that somewhere between 400 000 and 500 000 employees will no longer be covered by rules on the production of equal pay statistics. The statistical tool to be used is deteriorating in such a way that no specific concept of pay is required, which makes it virtually impossible to use the statistics for the overall exercise we also have, namely to keep an eye on how equal pay is to be achieved in the future. Employees covered by the rules on pay statistics lose a number of rights. They lose the right to be informed that they are subject to the rules; they lose the right to receive the pay statistics; they lose the right to have a discussion of it. At the same time, the possibility of sharing the statistics with colleagues and broader into society is limited if employers hand over the statistics in all confidentiality in the cooperation committee. Most of the government's arguments have been tampered with. One argument remains to be considered. This is what the government is trying to do to ease the burden on businesses. We have been documented that all companies must do the same as they do today, namely send in salary information to Danmarks Statistik, so no burden has been relieved there. So what is the burden for which the government will relieve companies? This is the burden of having employees have the right to be given the statistics and that employees have the right to have a discussion with the management, something as cautious and innocent as a discussion, yet a right to have such a discussion with the management. It is this difficult burden that the government and the blue parties will now remove. Therefore, allow me to conclude once again that behind all the tirades that we should have some more equal pay in this country, there is an ingrained reluctance to help with it if it means that employees must have some rights and if they could risk costing employers some money. Because, of course, equal pay is going to cost some money. There are thousands of female employees in this country who have to raise their wages so that we can look each other in the eye and get rid of those around. 7% inexplicable wage differences that exist today. I hope that my words have made a certain impression on someone in the bourgeois camp. As an optimist to the end, I would say: vote for the Socialists' amendments. Well, that's gonna fix it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134026	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134037	Thank you. I'm a little puzzled by the last comment about the fact that Mr. Finn Sørensen makes it sound as if it doesn't matter that the companies of the Folketing should be forced to meet with their employees. There are hundreds of thousands of jobs around Denmark. If they are all to hold a particular meeting, it will be hundreds of thousands of working hours to be spent on it. Doesn't matter at all in Mr. Finn Sørensen's eyes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134059	We are not talking about how many thousand meetings are to be held and how many thousands of working hours are consumed for it. We are talking about the fact that, until this bill is adopted, employees have the right to receive equal pay statistics; they have the right to have a discussion with management on the extent to which there should be equal pay problems at their workplace. I don't know how long such meetings can take... it's also completely secondary. It is about employees having a right that they are now going to take away from them. And if you are in favour of equal pay, you ensure that employees have such a right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134132	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134135	Yes, and those discussions then take some time out in the workplace. That is why I am asking whether it does not matter to the Enhedslisten that jobs are being placed around a burden which, overall, will amount to hundreds of thousands of hours to be spent on holding these meetings, which the employees have not seen any public demand for to be kept.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134157	If there's no public claim, what's the problem? Then you won't spend much time on it, will you? I think the rapporteur should think about this quite differently. It is common logic in the labour market that equal pay is good for flexibility. This means that employees are more open to and secure by taking on other work functions; it provides much better cooperation at a workplace, and there is cooperation between men and women of great importance. So if employers were a little bit forward-looking, they would see that there was probably some good money in a bill like this in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134236	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134242	Well, it would be fine if there were also one or more bourgeois people who went up to the platform and told me why it is such a great idea to implement this law and why this bill, which the Social Democratic Party has put forward, is wrong. But now we have to see if I have the opportunity to talk to a citizen about it too. But, in the meantime, I would just like to ask a question about this part of the burden, because what is, after all, contained in the current legislation is not that one is obliged to hold conversations; it is that one is obliged to share information. If, on the basis of this information, one finds that there is a problem which makes the company's act contrary to the equal pay law, which has therefore no one spoken against so far, then one is naturally obliged to have a conversation. So the burden that should be is only in the event that there is something in the company that means that the company does not comply with the equal pay law. Does Enhedslisten agree with that statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134342	I fully agree with that interpretation. That is why it is extremely exaggerating to present it as if this would lead to thousands of meetings around the companies. It can be said that if it does, it is enough because there is something wrong with the problem of equal pay for the companies concerned. And then it makes sense if you have a provision in the law that allows you to have a discussion of it on the individual companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134409	Can one not then have the idea that it sounds a little hollow when the bourgeois here in the Folketing cares so much about the companies that need to have talks, precisely because there may be questions as to whether they comply with the equal pay law? I mean, doesn't this sound a little hollow, so this whole burden argumentation? It is legislation that companies must:
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134445	I think it's such a very nice, polite way of saying it, i.e. it sounds a little hollow. I really liked the turn of the rapporteur himself in his speech, namely that this is a deliberate attack on the fight for equal pay in this country. And if there is so much opposition to it from the employers' side and from the employers' mouthpiece in this matter, namely the parties on the right side of the Chamber, then one might suspect that they might be afraid that there are quite a few problems of equal pay around which one does not want to have uncovered.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134516	The next question is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134521	I think it is a rather violent rhetoric on the part of the rapporteur when he talks about a deliberate attack on equal pay. I just think I have to ask in this way, in all seriousness, whether at any time during the debate at first reading the rapporteur has heard anyone speak against equal pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134541	On the contrary. I also used a few sentences to that in the speech I had before: that we have had to listen to long tirades about how much one is in favour of equal pay. But I am not giving it a bent penny when you see what the real content and consequences of this bill are.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134556	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134559	I just think it has to be said here that we have different ways of moving towards equal pay. The rapporteur has one and others in the Chamber have another.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134612	No, I don't want to put it that way. We have different opinions. Some move in the direction of equal pay, and some move away from it. That's where the difference lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134621	Thank you to the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134632	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF). A vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. Apparently, the clearings have been messed up. We shall take a new vote. The vote may be taken again. That concludes voting time. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and joined by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 and 4, joined by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134857	The debate is open. I give the floor to the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202134917	Thank you. With this bill, we are fulfilling 1,861 of our neighbours and colleagues and family members' desire to be able to call themselves Danish citizens. In addition, their 854 children are now Danes. From the Socialist side, I would like to offer my warm congratulations. We look forward to sharing both the duties of citizenship and the rights of all of you. Danes come in many colors. We are now a multi-ethnic society. It's not good, it's not bad, it's just the way it is. One should not believe in a certain god to be a Dane, nor should one eat anything special or dress in any special clothes or otherwise be or feel or believe anything special. But you have to know something special. One must be able to speak Danish because Danes talk Danish together, and one must want something special, namely respect and respect the Danish constitution. I said all that when we granted citizenship in the autumn. However, since the autumn, Denmark and the Danish Parliament have been through a wide-ranging debate on Danish asylum and integration policy, which is why I would like to add something: direct contact with the many citizens who are now also citizens. I say this from the platform because I have learned that many of you are following the debate. As you know, the country in which we live together and in which all of you now have the right to vote is in the middle of an important discussion on how to maintain cohesion and the welfare state on the one hand, while meeting our humanitarian commitments on the other, and, moreover, how to integrate the many new refugees arriving in Denmark into our community. Integrating people from foreign cultures into a Scandinavian welfare society has proved more difficult and more expensive and with more cultural conflicts than most had imagined. My own father, for example. Never calmed down in Denmark. I myself have experienced at close quarters how difficult it can be to replant one person from one culture to another. Culture probably binds us more strongly than most of us recognize. My father ended up going home when he got the opportunity. There are plenty of such unhappy stories about failed integration. But there is also the opposite. Today's bill should be 1,861 examples of the opposite. Many of you are the very example of how it is possible that we can cope with the challenges that Denmark is facing in the middle of now. I would therefore ask you to interfere in the discussion, with your colleagues, with your neighbors and with your family tell about your way here, how you learned Danish, how you got a job. Now it is not just your right to be a part of Denmark's control. It is also your duty to add to the joint discussions your own experiences. In conclusion, I would like to congratulate all of you who have worked so hard for your names to be on this bill. I hope I see you at citizenship day. Of course, the Socialists support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202135219	Thank you to the rapporteur. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202135228	1,861 people are on this bill for citizenship, plus 854 children. 720 of them acquire citizenship according to the old lax rules introduced by the old government together with Enhedslisten in 2013. 1.141 acquires citizenship in accordance with the new rules introduced in October 2015 as a result of an agreement that we in the Danish People's Party joined together with the Social Democracy, Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives and the government. It is clear that we stand by the agreements we are making. But I would say that there are 720 on the bill, which will be granted citizenship under the much more lenient rules of the old government. In addition, many of those who acquire citizenship under the old rules have been granted citizenship by way of derogation. This means that quite a few of them have been granted a derogation from the language requirement, which means that they may not speak Danish or at least speak very bad Danish. We have always been true to our own point of view, and that is that the people who acquire citizenship can Danish and are properly integrated. We believe it must be clear that people who acquire citizenship can of course speak Danish properly. We will not help create parallel societies by citizens who cannot speak Danish or speak very badly Danish and may never be integrated into Danish society. Those stories are actually enough. Go to Gellerup Park, where I lived from 1972 to 1975. Oh, my God, that's changed. The same applies to Mjølnerparken, Vollsmose and elsewhere. We simply cannot be aware that we continue to make four and relax the fact that people need to be properly integrated in order to have citizenship, and why in essence? It is in politics that the decisions we are taking now will have significance in the future for our descendants, our children, our great-grandchildren, etc. This is a kind of generational contract between us today and our descendants, and that generational contract obliges us to think about the future when we make political choices. Because our choices have an impact on the conditions under which our descendants will grow up and how society will look in 20, 30, 40 and 50 years. This is also true when we grant citizenship. The fact that we give citizenship to people who cannot Danish or perhaps speak very badly Danish and are never integrated into Danish society will of course have consequences for us now, yes, but certainly also for those who come after us, our children and grandchildren. They are the ones who are going to pay the huge bill for poor integration and for the parallel societies that have been created as a result of the unhappy refugee law of 1983. It is incredibly easy to just hand out citizenship in long lanes, as is done in the Enhedslisten, at the Radicals and in the Alternative. You just open the floodgates and then, by the way, bask in the light of the press and go to be really tolerant and neighborly, while you pass the real problems on to the descendants, the problems pass on to the future. They can then struggle with the problems that we have passed on to them because we were not our task adult. We would be delighted to vote in favour of this proposal because, after all, there are 1,141 people on it who comply with the rules that we have helped to agree to. However, when 720 people are on the bill who have acquired citizenship on the basis of the old conditions, and when quite a few of those people have been granted a derogation from the language requirement and may not speak Danish or at least speak bad Danish, then we cannot vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202135731	I would like to thank the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202135750	Thank you for that, and while I remember it, I will convey the greetings of the Conservative People's Party. They support what I'm going to say, so it's gonna be exciting what I'm saying. I cannot help wondering a little about the fact that at a time when Denmark's asylum policy has come on everyone's lips all over the world, when we can see jokes that are not very witty, the story that we are writing here today, where we are giving citizenship to 1,861 applicants and 854 accompanying children, i.e. a total of 2,715 people primarily from the hot countries, if I may say so, is part of the picture and shows that the picture that is being drawn by Denmark right now is extremely unreasonable. It is normal for us to table two legislative proposals, one every six months, on the announcement of citizenship here in the Danish Parliament, but the bill we are discussing here and now is an extraordinary draft law, which we have put in just to minimise the waiting time for a number of applicants who would otherwise have had to wait until the next ordinary legislative proposal. The new citizenship agreement means that there is a group of people who, in connection with the parliamentary elections, received an indication that they could expect to be admitted to the bill, and then they must have re-examined their case, and then there is a dividing line, whether it be according to the new or the old rules. As I have said, it is a group of 1,861 applicants and 854 accompanying children who are given citizenship with their parents. The draft law today therefore deals only with this group, which, as part of the political agreement, must have their application re-examined. We make sure by dealing with the bill here and now that no one gets caught between the new and the old guidelines. We also make sure that we minimize the waiting time. It will then be the case in future that all applications for Danish citizenship will be dealt with on the basis of the new guidelines. After all, the application for citizenship is of great importance both for the individual applicant, but also for the Danish society, because we are not only demanding the applicants; we are also demanding ourselves, as we must also do our utmost to ensure that the procedure is thorough and of high quality, and the government, together with the parties to the agreement, is agreed that the procedure relating to exemption cases should be optimised and made more flexible. In addition, medical diagnoses must be strengthened in connection with the processing of applications, and the quality of Danish education must also be paramount. With the agreement, clear guidelines have been created as to what is actually required of those who wish to obtain Danish citizenship or with another word citizenship. After all, it is no secret that we have raised the level of ambition a little, which has also been reflected in the new guidelines. The demand for the applicants' Danish skills has been raised, so that in future the applicants must be able to prove that they have passed the test in Danish 3 and not only in Danish 2 as before, and then you must also have passed a citizenship test, either the new one or the new one depending on the date of application. In addition, there is the demand for self-sufficiency, which I cannot stress enough. It is the case in Denmark that you have to support yourself when you can, and that is why we demand that the applicant should have been self-supporting for 41⁄2 years out of the last 5 years, and finally we have also chosen to extend the so-called career hours by 50 per cent, so that applicants who have committed crime, which leads to a career period, must now wait even longer before they have the opportunity to apply for Danish citizenship. These are reasonable and reasonable demands. I would like to conclude by congratulating the many fellow citizens who, at the third reading, will be Danish citizens at the push of the green button. Welcome to all of you, and I look forward to greeting at least some of you for the day of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202140201	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in the Parliamentary Chamber, so that is why we move on to Mr Rogalla's report. Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202140223	Thank you. In relation to the bill we are dealing with here, the previous rapporteurs have made visible what the number is and that there are people on that bill under both the new and the old rules. I have often pointed out here from the platform the deep concern of the practice of four years, which was adopted by the previous government with the support of the Enhedslisten, where citizenship was granted to a large number of people who did not actually meet the criteria and who would be very difficult to integrate, which meant that it was essentially irresponsible. We also have a part of them here, and normally the Liberal Alliance would not vote in favour. But it is now the case that we in the Danish Parliament are in practice implementing the outcome of the discussion we have had. For the bill that was coming when parliamentary elections were held meant that there were a number of people who received a letter that they were included in this bill and that their case was therefore dealt with. These are the ones we have with us now, which is why, of course, they have been dealt with in accordance with the old rules and have not been re-examined. This shows that it can be expected that a public authority in Denmark, which sends out a signal that it can count on it being treated, will stand by it and that the Folketing stands by it today. And so I am both happy and proud that we have landed the relatively difficult case so that we have a legislative proposal here that clears up the last uncertainty that some people have been able to feel. And so the fact that we have introduced new rules, which are considerably more responsible, in relation to the fact that the people who acquire citizenship are actually able to integrate into this society. The aim of testing and clarifying what can be done is to find out whether integration is possible at all, so that they can have a good life in a new culture, and that is a difficult matter. That is why I think there is reason today to welcome the fact that a broad majority in the Folketing has adopted new rules in this area, which means that stricter demands are being made and, in the future, a policy is being pursued in this area which makes it more likely to achieve a happy outcome to integration than has been possible before. And that's what this bill reflects. With this, I just want to say that the Liberal Alliance is of course voting for this bill and that at the same time we welcome everyone to this bill, both under the old and new rules, and welcome them to Denmark as new citizens. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202140520	Thank you. I have noted a brief remark made by Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202140525	I must admit that I did not really intend to take the floor, but I am like being called up in the service of the truth, because in what we are discussing with regard to the letter which went out to various people before the elections, I simply believe that there is something that does not fit in with the arguments of the Liberal Alliance. Those persons were not given a citizenship commitment and the Ministry of Justice cannot give a citizenship commitment. If the Ministry of Justice could do so, it would be contrary to the Constitution because Article 44 of the Constitution states that citizenship or citizenship is granted by law. In other words, it is the Folketing that adopts it. Although the rapporteur may have had the discussion before, I have to say in the service of the truth that it is nonsense to say that there is an undertaking that they have been granted citizenship, and that concerns probably part of the 720 who get under the old rules. The rapporteur is right. I do not think that is true.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202140638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202140640	The truth of the matter is that there are a number of people who have received a letter from a ministry that they will be included in that bill and that their case was closed. That letter has been given to them without reservation. And exactly when the elections were held, the content was changed so that those who have subsequently received a letter have had it with a reservation. Why do they get it with that reservation, if not the other was without reservation? I owe you, sir. Christian Langballe an answer to in the service of the truth. I think that what we did here was an expression of political decency, namely that we sent a signal that we can count on it when we get an inquiry without reservation from a public authority. Because if we're going to follow that point of view, sir. Christian Langballe has, I do not understand the fact that in connection with the announcement of the election, a reservation is beginning to be entered. Why would you do that if it doesn't matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202140736	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202140739	It is a matter of principle that the Ministry of Justice cannot give a commitment to citizenship. If the Ministry of Justice did this, the Ministry of Justice would be guilty of violation of the Constitution. It's as simple as that. What is stated in that letter is that they have been given an undertaking that they have been included in the bill, but it has just happened before that people have been taken back by the bill. In other words, all they have got is a statement that they are now on the bill. If the majority behind that bill were to change, of course they would not get citizenship. It's self-evident.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202140820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202140821	The reservation given to the others was a reservation that the rules were being changed. It was not a question of them being taken off the bill because it was thought that it was fun to take them off the bill. So very kindly, it is simply nonsense to start talking about who grants citizenship. I know that the Danish People's Party has normally voted against everything in this connection, and we can see that they are doing so today, even though there is a great deal that is actually on the proposal on the basis of the rules that the Danish People's Party has been adopting. You vote against it. We are then a number of parties that usually carry this through, even though there have been people on the proposal who have not exactly received our support in the individual proceedings. That is what I think is political decency.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202140904	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we go to the next rapporteur. This is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202140918	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to congratulate all those who, by virtue of this bill, are about to become Danish citizens. As a Dane, I feel proud and honoured that they want to actively choose Denmark as their homeland. It is really large, especially in view of the fact that their way here has been more than usual difficult, long and hard. Why this is the case, the previous rapporteur has explained why we now have a January proposal and not just a April and an October proposal, so I will not go into that again. But I think it is nice that, despite the political disagreements we have in this Chamber, what criteria should apply to become a Danish citizen, and the differences are very great, it is nevertheless good that applicants can know that their application is judged on the basis of guidelines that apply at the time they are seeking, so that they know what requirements they have to meet and can target their efforts accordingly. Of course, I am particularly grateful to the Liberal Alliance for ensuring that this could happen. It says in the Constitution that citizenship must be granted by law. That's right. That is what we are doing today. We have listed the names of a number of people on a bill, and now we pass by law that they become Danish citizens. However, there is no mention in the Constitution of what criteria we need to include the names of applicants for citizenship in such a bill. We in the Committee on Bodily Rights are voting on who, for various reasons, should be granted a derogation from the general requirements. There are some guidelines, yes, but they are widely interpreted by the members of the committee. In fact, this means that it may be up to a single member to decide whether or not an applicant becomes a Danish national. I was very surprised when, as a new Member, I entered the Committee on Bodily Rights. It felt deeply unfair. Recently we read in the press about two brothers with exactly the same difficult diagnosis that sought dispensation. One got yes, the other got no. Thus, by chance or not, an applicant can obtain a derogation from one or more requirements, thereby obtaining Danish citizenship and becoming an equal citizen of Danish society with the democratic rights that go with it. Another applicant with a completely comparable derogation application may, by more or less chance, at the same time be refused exemption from the requirements and thus be obliged to live his or her life without the possibility of becoming a proper part of the country which he or she considers to be his or hers. So this is merely by chance. No rules prevent these coincidences from occurring, but such arbitrariness is not worthy of a community of law and a parliament. The candidates are also completely ignorant of the sense of justice of the members of the committee, who do not have a chance to know the criteria on which the decision is taken in committee. I would now say that there is indeed an opportunity to ensure much greater legal certainty, including in the case of derogation cases, and I hope that we will have a debate in committee on how to ensure better and fairer handling of these matters in the future. The alternative would like to contribute to this. For the time being, a minority in the committee has asked us to have experts interpret whether the basic law really requires the committee to take an individual position on all exemption applications. I would like to conclude by expressing once again a warm congratulations to all future citizens. I hope to greet many of them on the day of citizenship. The alternative is in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202141342	Thank you. There is one brief comment for the time being, and it is from Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202141348	I have to say that there is something I do not really understand in the way that Mrs Sandbæk is setting things up. Firstly, the acquisition of citizenship is not a legal requirement. The acquisition of citizenship is not a legal requirement. It is a gift from the Danish Parliament; it is a gift from the Danish people. It does not say anywhere that it is a right when you are within Denmark to acquire citizenship. It's just to make it clear. Secondly, the rapporteur presents it as saying that everything that is going on in the Committee on Bodily Rights and everything that has to do with citizenship is based on arbitraryness. That's not true. There is a political majority adopting the rules under which citizenship is granted, and it is a political majority voting through it. That's the way it is. I would just like to say: away with the arbitraryness and away with the many derogations. That was one way to do it. Finally, I would like to say one last thing: I would like to see each case, which is also on this bill, dealt with much more intimacy, as was done in the old days, before so many were filled in the list as there have been in the last few decades.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202141507	I would ask the questioner to keep to his speaking time. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202141512	I would ask the questioner to explain why it is not arbitrary for us to have a list, for example. 70 exemption applications. From No. 1 to No 70 there is a lot that says that no. 5 are granted a derogation and no. Twenty-two sheep. Another party says no, it has to be no. Numbers 7 and 7 Thirteen sheep, and a third party points to someone else altogether. This means that a member of the committee can grant derogations which all other 'no' commenters have said cannot be granted a derogation. Why is that not arbitrary?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202141545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202141547	I think the rapporteur misunderstands what I said. I said that I would like to see the 1,861 dealt with individually, as was done in the old days, when it was the individual who was asked for goodness and all sorts of things. You went through the personal history and looked at if the person wanted Denmark. I would like to see that, but this huge amount of citizenship just means that it cannot be done, but there has been an individual assessment of each one.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202141617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202141618	I just think that, if there is not to be arbitrariness, it should be the Ministry that makes the assessment that is being made today by the committee. I would be quite happy with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202141631	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202141643	Thank you. Kheda Abaeva, Kolding; Amal Ali Abass, Copenhagen; Arif Abazi, The Road; Lulije Abazi, Herlev; Amir Hamid Abbas, Ishøj; Anaim Abbas, Vejle; Azhar Z Abbas, Køge; Shamas Abbas, Gladsaxe; Hanaa Rashid Abboud, Skive; Khalil Mahmoud Abdalla, Roskilde. These are the names of the first ten people we grant Danish citizenship with this bill. When I read them out loud, it's to remind you that it's about people. The Danish debate over recent months has been almost exclusively about figures. But under every number there is a real human being of flesh and blood who is determined his destiny. It is something special to be a Danish citizen; it is something special to become a Danish citizen. There are rules on what to live up to in order to get citizenship, and therefore it is nonsense when DF interprets the text as they do. With this bill, 1,861 people will be part of our community, and I would like to congratulate you on that. On the other hand, there may not be much reason to congratulate us as a society, because on this bill there are names of people who were already told that they would become Danish citizens last year, but then Mrs Inger Støjberg came to us as a minister and demanded that matters be changed. It violates the sense of justice, for as Mr. Leif Mikkelsen just said, you have to be able to count on the public. There is political decency, and I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance for holding on to that. From now on, people who want Danish citizenship must live up to the rules agreed by the bourgeois parties and the Social Democrats in the autumn. This means that in future people will have to respond correctly to historical questions about Denmark, to which we know from experience that a fifth of the Danes cannot answer. They must pass a Danish examination which corresponds to what they must be able to do in a medium or long higher education. It's a failure of the workers. It does not make sense inside my head that the Socialists, who are usually the country's working party, are behind it. Then there is the very way in which we deal with the applications on the Committee on Bodily Rights. It is a failure of legal certainty and it is contrary to the equal treatment which, for me, is a fundamental Danish value. In my view, it is the past that individual members of parliament sit and say 'yes' and 'no' to applicants without any justification and without any chance for the individual to have a reason. We can and must do better. In the Radical Left, we are working to ensure that everyone who lives up to the rules has citizenship. I would like to say to those who are left by a majority without legal certainty that I will continue to fight for a fairer system. To those who acquire citizenship, to Amal and Amir and Hanaa: Congratulations, and I look forward to seeing many of them for citizenship day.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142023	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142028	Excuse me, but it's an elementary fact that it's people it's all about. There are 6 billion people in the world. There are 60 million refugees. They're all people, and that's what this is about. There is no need to reduce this to a question that some people here regard them as people and others who do not. Because I don't think that's the case. These are people it's about. But we also have a responsibility to our society, to who becomes citizens, and that is the whole discussion. So I would like to ask this question: is it true that every person on this bill is voted through by a political majority, so to speak, because it is actually the same thing that happens in the Committee on the Rights of the Child that it is quite the same thing that happens? There you decide whether or not to grant a derogation. Down here in the Chamber we are deciding who should have citizenship and who should not. If there is a majority against the law of citizenship, then no one gets citizenship. Is that correct? Because that's how the Constitution works. What is going on in the Folketing is the same thing that is going on in the Committee on Birth Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142137	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142139	Yes, what we want in the Radical Left is that there are very precise rules on how to obtain citizenship, and also very precise rules on what it takes to obtain exemption, so that we get beyond the situation that Mrs Ulla Sandbæk very rightly described, namely that we sit at committee meetings and say yes to no. 12 and No 22 and no to the others, without any justification whatsoever. That violates my sense of justice and that is why we in the Radical Left want to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142214	I can then say with regard to the case in question that I voted consistently in both cases. I did. But I would like to say that the Radical Left can also say so easily because they are consistently voting in favour. I sometimes have the feeling that there is no individual assessment at all, and that there is not the alternative either. In any case, I have never heard the Radical Left vote against in the Committee on the Rights of the Child. Isn't that a arbitrariness?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142243	Well, we are not going exactly and that is why the whole discussion for me, as a radical one, is that the criteria for obtaining citizenship and also the criteria for obtaining nationality must be clear and clear, so that at the moment you live up to them you must also have citizenship. That is why we will also work to have a hearing so that we can clarify what the legal basis of it is, because I simply disagree with the interpretation of the Danish People's Party as to what the paragraph of the Constitution means.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142320	Thank you. The next brief remark comes from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142324	Thank you. It was quite a confession case that the Radical Left rapporteur is standing on the platform of the Folketing and admits that the procedure we are charged with as committees is not being carried out; that you do not go in and look at the candidates individually, but simply say yes to all those who come to the Committee on the Rights of the Child. Those were clear words. We have suspected it, but it was clear words that you don't even want to read the cases we get over, but just say yes to scrubs and scrubs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142351	It follows logically that we are opposed to the way in which we deal with it. It is contrary to my sense of justice, it is contrary to the equal treatment, which for me is a completely fundamental Danish value, that one sits and says: I think that no. 12 must have the right of birth, but I do not think that no. Thirteen should have it. That is surely a lack of legal certainty, and that is why we, on the radical side, together with a number of other parties in the Folketing, want to have a hearing in which we call legal experts who can help to set up a setup based on legal certainty and not on the arbitrariness of today's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142428	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142429	Well, I'm simply shocked. What we are hearing is that we do not want to use the political power that we, as Parliament, have been given in the Constitution, namely that we are the ones who set the guidelines, the guidelines that determine whether applicants can become Danish citizens or not. If you are not at all concerned with what principles you want to grant citizenship, but simply think that if it has been sent over by an official in the ministry, you should say yes, what should you do with the Committee on the Rights of the Child?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142459	That's not what I said. In fact, my point is exactly the opposite: we, as politicians, are responsible for describing the criteria needed to obtain citizenship, and also the criteria needed to obtain a derogation, so precisely that we do not need to sit and deal with matters on the Committee on the Rights of the Child. That is where all the randomness arises. This is contrary to my sense of justice, and that is why I want us to get legal experts to clarify what we can actually do within the framework of the Constitution. For as both the Left and the Danish People's Party try to interpret that paragraph, it is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142532	The next question is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142537	Thank you. I do not wish to deny that the present procedure could be carried out in a more wise way. However, the reason why I am taking the floor is that, as the rules have now been tightened up, we have some fairly clear, precise guidelines on who the birthright office should put on the bill, and then the birthright office has the opportunity to present some cases to us in the committee for derogation. And that is a political assessment. It may be that they lack two days in their employment requirements, or it may be that they have violated legislation, but we can then make a political assessment of whether we think that exactly the offence should prevent them from coming up with the bill. I fear that if you had only guidelines and no scope for a political assessment then a political assessment of the waiver would result in a much more rigid system and that fewer people would actually acquire citizenship. So I find it rather difficult to understand that the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Radicals, who otherwise want more people to have citizenship, are pursuing an opportunity which I believe will result in fewer people getting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142651	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142653	I agree with some of what Mr. Mattias Tesfaye says. I also believe that there must continue to be an opportunity for the Committee on Bodily Rights to grant a derogation. The problem is that today we have far too many cases submitted for derogation. And that is because we lack clearer guidelines for it, for example. As far as people who have post-traumatic stress are concerned, there are some in the committee who think that these statements cannot be taken too well. So my point would be that then we must ensure that we make clearer demands on what kind of statements are needed, so that it does not have to be politicians who, frankly, have no understanding whatsoever of such diagnoses, who have to sit and read the papers and sit and look at whether that is a good enough explanation for not being self-supporting or not being able to go up and meet the Danish requirements that are there. We're gonna have to put that in a stretched arm. That is why I am saying that we should make some much clearer criteria so that a much larger part of the derogations can be granted automatically and that it should only be in those cases where there is doubt that it is necessary to submit it to the Committee on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142758	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142800	Thank you. I understand that the Radical Left is not opposed to the possibility of a derogation, but would like the amount of cases in filled cardboard boxes dragged over here at Christiansborg, which we have to read through, to be fewer. We would like to support this on the part of the Social Democratic Party. That, in fact, was one of the gains of the political agreement that was made before Christmas. I agree that we disagree with the political content, but one of the gains in that agreement is that the requests for derogations have been considerably reduced. But once again I can ask you the same thing as I did in my first question: is it not the case, when you restrict the scope for exemption, that the bottom line is that fewer people are granted citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142848	No, because I am against limiting the scope for exemption. What is my point is that we need to clarify the criteria in a way that does not need to be parliamentary politicians who sit and decide it, but so it can be in the same way as we have had up to now: that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. was young, could do so alone by a statement. In the same way, it is with all the other legislation that we are making: if the criteria are clear enough, it is after all a question of checking whether or not we are complying with the legislation rather than having to do a procedure such as that we are doing on the Committee on the Rights of Citizens. So let me say quite clearly to the Socialists: it is not a question of restricting the possibilities; it is a question of creating legal certainty by having clearer principles so that the Committee on Petitions does not have to deal with so many cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142935	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202142938	Thank you. I would, of course, like to sign for the honesty shown by Mrs Lotte Rod, although I have to say that this brings the debate somewhere else, and unfortunately it reveals that this is not sustainable at all. For then the whole treatment depends entirely on, quite frankly, where the Chamber divides here in the Folketing. We must then have had a period when there was a red majority, and we have certainly been able to sense it. Everyone's got a yes, no matter what. It is not even certain that you have opened the boxes and looked into the applications. Everyone just got a yes. Now there is another majority taking the task seriously, and we are actually going through each case. We did the same when there was a red majority. It just didn't move much. Today it is quite right that it depends very much on our taking serious action to decide whether we believe that this can lead to integration. It is actually a real case-by-case. It can be seen that one half of the Chamber is not doing so, and this can certainly lead to a need for serious changes to it here. I agree with that, but it is appalling that this is actually the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143057	I would like to make it quite clear that it is simply nonsense to say that everyone just gets 'yes', because you have to meet some criteria to end up in our pile of derogations at all. That's why the whole point of this is, of course, how Mr. Leif Mikkelsen can assess whether no. Actually, 15 could have learned Danish anyway, or how Mr. Leif Mikkelsen can assess that no. 17 actually could have gotten a job anyway. We, as politicians, do not know that, we are not experts. I am not making myself smarter than the medical statements that are, and that is why I say that we need to strengthen the basis. However, let us discuss it if we disagree on whether some of the medical statements on post-traumatic stress syndrome are too bad. Then what we need to discuss is how to improve the medical assessment. However, it makes no sense to believe that we, as politicians, can assess what the situation is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143203	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143204	No, I understand that the red half has not felt qualified to go into any assessment at all whether people can now do so and that from the test procedures that are taking place. I think it is deeply, deeply worrying that it is possible in the Folketing at all to think that it is reasonable to have that view on a case-by-case basis. You hear here that it's about people, and that's what we agree on. However, this should be taken more seriously. In fact, we also think it is a big and difficult task, because we have cardboard boxes with attachments for us, but we actually take it seriously and take time to deal with each case in order to determine whether it can lead to a goal or not. So I only agree with one thing, and that is that this should lead to serious reflection on how this procedure should take place in the future. Because if the accident should happen that one day we will have a red majority, then everyone will get a 'yes', regardless of whether integration is possible or not, I can understand it all. That is deeply questionable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143300	But what kind of basis is that, sir? Leif Mikkelsen thinks he can assess the cases? Is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen doctor? Is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen's therapist? Is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen employment adviser? Here we are discussing whether we believe that it is the professional groups who assess matters, or we, as politicians, know what it is like. I just have to say I'm not a doctor or a psychologist. I am a politician and that is why I want us to have a system of justice and not a system in which the outcome, which now depends on whether we say yes or no in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143344	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jacob Mark of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143355	Thank you. I wasn't really going to do it this far, because I know that there are some people who are probably watching this live, who have been waiting a long time for this, and the SF would like to congratulate them. A few weeks after I was elected to Parliament, I sat at Roskilde Festival with a good friend who was having his application for citizenship processed, and he had received a letter that he would get it. A new minister had arrived and I think it would have been the same regardless of which minister it had been from the Left Government and he asked me very Jakob: does this mean that I am not going to be a Dane anyway? Then I said to him: No, I'm actually convinced it doesn't mean, and no matter what I think you're a Dane. He then also gained Danish citizenship. Speaking of arbitrariness, I think that everyone who sits on that selection gets improbably many mails, messages and Facebook Messenger messages, where it says: What's going wrong now? Does anyone want to vote me down? I'm not a Dane? And it is even if people work, train, go to school and are active in voluntary association life. So the reason I want to be brief is that I really just want to say: you have waited long enough, you are Danes, and you deserve the proof where the minister signs and says: Yes, you are Danes. There are demands being made. We in the SF have also said that from the start that we think is fair enough. We actually think it is fair enough that one should be able to Danish at a certain level; we think it is more than fair that one does not commit crime if one wants to be a Dane; we think it is more than fair that one should have been here for years and proved that one wants to live in the country; we think it is more than fair that one should be self-supporting. And if you saw, for example... is ill or encounters some other things that could also affect us other Danes who make it impossible to live up to it, so it is fair enough that there are exemptions. But there are demands, and this part of the Parliamentary Hall has done so if we're gonna leave that mud-throwing fight behind. It should not just be easy to obtain Danish citizenship. We also make demands, and a number of people live up to that, and they have fought for it. I just want to say a big congratulations to all of you. I can't wait to say hello to you on citizenship day. SF is voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143627	There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143634	I would just like to say that it is quite simply wrong that some people from the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of the Interior or any ministry have received a letter in which they have been promised citizenship. It is simply factually wrong. You can try, and I would ask the rapporteur to ask for it himself in the ministry. I think this myth has gone long enough. I know that at the time SF actually formulated some requirements that were relaxed in 2013. But I just have to say that I never think that SF would have gone in and taken responsibility if it hadn't been because of the Danish People's Party or the blue block in the 00s. For it was actually we who began to think that some proper demands had to be made on those who could receive Danish citizenship, that is to say that you had to live up to some things, that you had to know the Danish language, that you had to be able to orient yourself in Danish society. That's actually why we support these rules. We think they're fair and fair. You can then discuss this for a long time, but the mud throwing is, of course, because there is a part of the Danish Parliament that does not want to take responsibility in this matter and does not do it when it is the case that it requires something. That is just what we have been trying to illustrate in today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143759	I should just like to say to the rapporteur, in good order, that you do not have to speak directly into the microphone. It is set in such a way that if you are standing at normal speaking distance, the sound will be picked up in a good way, and if you speak immediately into the microphone, there is a risk that there will be such plop noises that may be quite unpleasant for those who sit behind radio sets or television and keep up with them. So just for the record, keep a little distance. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143824	I do not want to go into the discussion that we have been having for months now about whether there has been a right to have a legitimate expectation. I note that there is a majority in the Folketing who believe that the people who have been sent a letter stating that they are on the list have had a legitimate expectation that they would now be allowed to go through. I think that is fair enough, and that is the position of the SF. I also note that the Danish People's Party has not believed this to be the case on several occasions, and that is also fair enough. The second debate on what SF meant back in the '00s and what is the Danish People's Party's merit and what is not, frankly, I cannot go into. I wasn't in the Assembly Hall then. What I'm just absolutely sure of now is that when we in SF sit at group meetings and discuss what the requirements need to be to get into Denmark, it is important for us that we know the Danish language. It is important for us not to commit crime. It is important for us to be able to be self-supporting. What the Danish People's Party has meant in the '00s and before the '00s, I really don't care about. This is SF's position.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143923	Sir. Langballe for second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143925	It is simply to note that I am pleased that the SF has moved as much as they have, that is to say they have moved into our direction and are playing on the same track. I don't know if the party does, but I'm kind of happy about that. But I would also like to say that this is not a political position. Facts are not something one has a subjective attitude towards. Facts are facts, and it is a fact that the letter sent over from the Ministry did not promise citizenship. It's just as simple as it is, and I don't need to comment on that, but it's just a fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202143959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144001	When I think about what is red ideology, it is about giving according to ability and enjoying as needed. I have always felt that if you want to be a Danish citizen and you have the opportunity to learn the Danish language, that's what you have to do, and that's what you have to be able to do. You should not commit crime if you want to be part of Danish society. You must be self-supporting if you want to be part of Danish society. That is my view, and the SF has always believed it. Nor is it a step towards the Danish People's Party. I do not think that the requirement that one should pass Danish test 3, which is at an unfairly harsh level, or that one should be able to pass this old test of citizenship, is necessary in order to obtain Danish citizenship. There I am more concerned about languages and whether one can support oneself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144043	So the Rules of Procedure say that there is no direct indictment, but I assume that the use of you in this case was a synonym for man, and that is why we are putting it at risk. There is one more brief comment. It's from sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144100	Thank you. For the Socialists, it is important that there has been broad political agreement on some rules for the granting of citizenship, which is why we are also pleased that we have managed to reach such an agreement with the four parties in the blue bloc. Of course, we are also interested in that agreement being given even wider political support, and I agree that the SF has some problems with some of the elements of the agreement, and that is, of course, fair enough. But could it be imagined that during this parliamentary period, the SF could agree to the agreement with a view to creating even more calm, so that the many people who need to seek can have even more clarity and tranquillity about what rules to seek?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144147	Yes, if the SF can magically convince the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party to roll back the austerity they adopted here at the beginning of the period, then you could actually do it. After all, I think that the citizenship test that the SF and the Socialists did together when we sat in government was a better test than the one that has now been agreed that there should be. I thought it was more reasonable, and I've been around visiting these Danish courses, where we've been out with the Integration Committee and have heard what it really is you're being taught. Well, I think it's fair enough that you become a Dane if you can Danish test 2, because it's actually a level that many Danes can only do. One can easily engage in the labour market and be a good citizen, although one can only speak Danish at Danish level 2. So if we can manage to get it back to the level where it is reasonable, then yes, we would very much like to join.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144236	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144239	It is now the case that Danish 2 can actually do well if you meet reasonably tighter employment requirements, but leave it at that. What I am hearing from the SF is that the SF is in fact interested in entering into a broad political agreement that would cement a political fortress peace so that people who apply for citizenship in our country can be sure under what conditions it should take place. And if we are to point to a political problem that is to get there, it is about the demands that are made specifically in the Danish field. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144314	Yeah, and about the birth test. Some of the restrictions that were adopted in this package are not supported. We were, in effect, very pleased with the package we adopted with the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144325	The next brief remark is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144329	It is just to tell the rapporteur from the SF what the requirements for Danish 2 are, because the rapporteur clearly does not know that. It is not the case that there are Danes, i.e. Danes with Danish parents, born and raised in Denmark, who cannot pass Danish 2 Nor did I say so). Well, Danish 2 corresponds roughly to the level at which you speak first foreign language in the 7th grade, and Danish 3 corresponds roughly to the level at which you speak first foreign language in the 9th grade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144407	I thought I said Danish Test 3, but then I'll correct myself if I didn't say so. I have just said that I believe that the requirements must be the same as in the past, that is to say that one must pass Danish test 2 in order to obtain Danish citizenship, and not a Danish test 3, to which it has been changed. It was no more than a week ago that the Integration Committee in the Danish Parliament, where I was present, was in Aarhus with Lærdansk to hear what the levels of this are. And it's not just 9th grade. There are different views on this. What we heard in Lærdansk was, in fact, that if you can pass Danish exam 3, you can do yourself in medium or higher education. I just take the view that you can easily be an excellent Dane, even if you do not have the Danish level.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144447	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144449	Thank you very much, sir. President. It's okay to get that straightened out. But Danish is a difficult language to learn. It is one of the hardest languages in the world, no doubt about it. Now it is not the case that one has such a human right to become a Dane. Well, becoming a Danish citizen is something exclusive, and it requires something very special. Therefore one can easily be in Denmark and make a contribution, but being a Danish citizen requires something extra.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144527	I agree with that. Anyway, my Uncle Santo, who has been in the country for more than 10 years, is just having a really hard time learning the Danish language. Ever since I was a kid, he's been working in a factory, and he's been working hard as a ground and concrete worker, and he's paid more in taxes than I have yet. He would not be able to pass Danish test 3 because he never learns the Danish language. Some people just don't have the conditions for it, and I think that my Uncle Santo is as Danish as I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144552	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. As there is no one here from the Conservatives, I give the floor to the Minister. The minister does not want to speak? Good. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144617	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan Johansen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202144650	We want a housing market in balance and a Denmark with a strong cohesion. Here it is absolutely crucial that all Danes have the opportunity to get a good and decent accommodation regardless of the wallet. For the Socialists, it is therefore essential to ensure a well-functioning non-profit housing sector with good quality housing. We have taken many important initiatives when we were in government. We set, among other things. the renovation of 125,000 non-profit housing. Because we mean it when we say that we want to work for a well-functioning general housing sector. The municipalities have had reasonable conditions to build non-profit housing since 2012. They have had this because the previous government, by a broad majority in this Parliament, reduced the basic municipal capital from 14 per cent. 10%. This has made it cheaper for municipalities to build non-profit housing. That's a good idea. We know it works and it is a well-known handle that has been turned on many times to regulate the activity of the non-profit housing sector. At the end of 2016, this agreement expires, which we made back in 2012. It is therefore positive that the government has taken the initiative to continue a good regime. With the bill, the level of municipal basic capital continues for 2 years. At the same time, the level of capital grants to private suppliers of free-care homes is extended. Private suppliers of free-care homes must today provide a capital grant of 10%, and this is a level that has historically followed the level of basic capital. For the Social Democrats, it makes good sense to continue with the current level. This will give the municipalities a good opportunity to continue and pursue an active housing policy for the benefit of the tenants and the elderly. With L 110, there will also be more opportunities to invest in low energy housing. In the future, new buildings will have to meet energy requirements from 2015, but you can voluntarily use energy class 2020. It is also proposed that, in the future, it should continue to be possible to make an additional total economic investment in new general buildings which go beyond the maximum amount. This is a sensible update of existing legislation. At the same time, a wise principle is maintained that the rent increase that the tenants will receive must be offset at least by what the tenants save on the energy renovation. It is common sense and at the same time fair conditions for tenants and good for the environment and climate. The bill also means a change in the composition of the board of the Centre for Housing Social Development. The Socialists believe it is wise to appoint a representative of the Ministry of Employment, as proposed. It is certainly good and sensible to think employment policy into housing social development. All in all, the Socialists are of the opinion that the general housing sector in Denmark is well served by the bill. There is still a need to create good conditions for building and living in general housing. So L 110 is a good step forward. The Social Democrats can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145034	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Dea Larsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145045	In addition to a number of minor changes and some adjustments, the bill is about continuing with the basic municipal capital of 10%, including for free care homes, which the government and KL have agreed that the minister should work to get through. It was reduced to 10% in 2012. from 14 per cent. and expired in the year 2016. This proposal extends the scheme to 2018, and we in the Danish People's Party think that makes very good sense. However, we see certain challenges in the system in general, and we want a future discussion on a more appropriate and strategic structure to ensure that general housing is built more closely on the basis of where there is a need. This is particularly so in view of the implementation of the relocation plan and the intentions underlying it, namely a more equal Denmark, where everything is not concentrated exclusively on a few large cities. Today there are empty general homes in some places, while other places have violent and unreasonable waiting lists. In addition, the bill proposes that for construction works exceeding the maximum amount, the level should be raised from the 2015 building class to the 2020 building class. It also makes great sense, as the 2015 energy class is becoming more common than extraordinary. It is also proposed that one of two seats on the Board of the Centre for Housing Social Development, otherwise occupied by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, should be transferred to the Ministry of Employment. This proposal certainly also makes sense from the perspective of the challenges that are around in general housing companies. Overall, we are very much in favour of this proposal and we support the continuation of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145227	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Britt Baker from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145234	Today, we are examining the draft law on the reduction of basic capital and capital injections, as well as the revision of the rules on total additional economic investments. It is a legislative proposal that contains three main elements. Firstly, the reduction in basic municipal capital is extended to 10%. Until the end of 2018. This is done as part of the agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2016, where the government and KL have agreed to extend the reduction of municipal basic capital from 14 to 10 per cent. 2 years. Secondly, the draft law implies an increased requirement for the energy standard to be achieved at least in the context of total economic extra investment in general housing. To this end, the housing payment rate must be fixed annually so as to ensure the scheme's requirement for zero aid. Thirdly, this bill means that one of the board members of the Centre for Housing Social Development will be appointed in the future on the recommendation of the Minister of Employment. Basically, this bill will include: make it cheaper for municipalities to build general housing. In addition, the proposal will tighten up the requirement for total economic extra investment so that it remains possible to build general housing of a better energy standard than the one required by the building regulations today. Against this background, of course, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145408	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. There is no one here from the Enhedslisten, so we move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145429	The purpose of the bill here is to extend the reduction in the requirement for the municipalities to co-finance new non-profit housing, so that it does not increase to the normal 14 per cent, but is maintained at the abnormally low 10 per cent adopted in 2012 by a red government. It was under the impression that there was still a recession in the economy at the time, and it was considered necessary to contribute to the strengthening of employment in the construction sector with measures such as this. So it was also an improvement in the economic situation. We are not in this situation today, there are no problems with employment in the construction industry, and I therefore see no reason why we should extend the lower percentage that municipalities must contribute to new non-profit housing so that it remains at 10%. and not the normal 14%. It is a sound principle that municipalities, which help to decide together with the non-profit housing associations, that new non-profit housing should be built, also assume part of the responsibility for that decision and cannot pass on very large parts of the financial consequences of it to the state. After all, it is the municipalities that are involved in making the decision, so we want it to return to the 14 per cent. That is why we cannot support this legislative proposal, although the draft law contains some excellent adjustments to the conditions for additional investment by better insulation and better energy labelling of housing. We could support that part of the bill, but unfortunately there is the other part of the bill here that we cannot support. And then we are forced to oppose the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145633	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolai Amstrup of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145639	Thank you very much. The draft law here is a continuation of some really sensible measures in the area of housing, namely the reduction of basic municipal capital for general housing from 14 per cent. 10%. and permit total economic additional investment in general construction exceeding the maximum amount, provided that the building's energy standard is significantly better than the general level. In addition, the composition of the Center for Housing Social Development Board changes to avoid double representation. It is very positive, we think, in the alternative, that the government wants to continue the improvement in the incentive for municipalities to make commitments to general housing. We can only back that up. This allows municipalities to act more freely in order to provide some housing with a reasonable rent. The further development of the permits for total economic extra investment over the maximum amount in order to boost the construction of general housing in high energy economic standards is, of course, very much welcome in the alternative. This is a very good proposal and we hope to see much more of it. The fact that in future the percentage of the housing payment is regulated by the Minister also seems to us to make sense, as the fixed interest rate has proved to have unintended aid effects. Of course, we have full confidence in this being done in the most secure way possible for the tenants. The alternative wholeheartedly supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145809	There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145814	If it is good that the municipalities can decide that more non-profit housing should be built without the municipalities having to hang on to such a large part of the bill, would it be best if the municipalities could decide to build more non-profit housing and could pass the entire cost on to the state and not bear a cost in the municipalities at all? Would that be the very best thing, according to the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145835	No, we don't think so. We believe that there should be a fair balance. And right now, that balance has been found at 10%. We are not unresponsive to a proposal that municipal basic capital, for example. comes down to 7% as it has been at an earlier time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145853	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145857	So the principle that the municipalities should just build on the government's bill, however, has its limits. For many years it was thought that 14 per cent. was the right balance. Then came a new government which, also under the impression that there was a decline in construction, thought that one could put a little more to the construction plans out there. Should it not affect the percentage and the question of how the right balance is that there is no longer a decline in construction, but now, in fact, do situations with a shortage of labour in construction actually arise?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145928	There are many considerations to consider in relation to this. One thing could be the economic situation, another could be the economic situation of the municipalities, which is being pressured from other fronts. In this way, we believe that a good balance can be found in terms of providing municipalities with development opportunities and creating cheap housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145949	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202145957	Thank you. We need more cheap housing in Denmark. Not only to the new refugees who have come here and who have put the municipalities on quite a task also because of the government's poverty benefits, which make it difficult for the refugees to pay the rent but also to the Danish families who have little money to do well with every month, and also to the homeless, who cannot find a place to pay. That is why we in the Radical Left have proposed that it should be made easier for municipalities to immediately build general housing, by the state paying the money, the basic capital, which the municipalities should otherwise lay down. Unfortunately, we are left with this proposal alone. Today we are dealing first with a proposal which is a step in the right direction. The municipalities and the government have agreed in the economic agreement that they would like to continue for two more years with the temporary municipal basic capital of 10%. instead of 14 per cent. We would like to support this, even though we believe that the state needs to take over the basic municipal capital in the situation we are in now. We would like to help raise the green top by making general housing more climate-friendly. This is both good for our energy consumption and good for our residents, who, by virtue of the law here, get the government's word that the rising rent that the renovation brings must stay within the limits of energy savings. This will enable the Radical Left to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150144	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150148	I just got curious. Does the Radical Left think it should never be the case that the percentage goes back to 14? Should it be 10% forever, or should it eventually move up to 14 per cent.? What is the reason why it has to go up to 14 at some point and not now if the Radical Left believes that it should eventually land at 14?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150215	I am not opposed to it having to return to 14. What we can just see in the situation we are in right now is that we urgently need cheap housing. That is why the Radical Left is proposing that the state should take over all the basic municipal capital, but only for a year, so that we can build 5,000 cheap dwellings here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150237	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150240	The fact that we urgently need more non-profit housing is a little interesting. It is not much more than a year's time or one and a half, I think, since it was agreed by the conciliation parties behind the recent agreement on non-profit housing that some of the funds should now go to the demolition of entire non-profit housing blocks in the outskirtsdanmark, which stood empty. So where is the acute lack of non-profit housing when, at the same time, we have an agreement to ensure that non-profit housing is torn down?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150317	This is, of course, one of the realistic answers to how we help the municipalities to find housing for the many refugees who have come to our country. There are other parties in here who prefer to bring the refugees together in refugee villages. We in the Radical Left think this is a very bad solution because it leads to isolation and ghetto formation. On the contrary, we believe that it is important to integrate into society and that there is a role for cheap housing. Unfortunately, the government has not made it easier to introduce poverty benefits, which means that refugees have so little money to pay rent with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150351	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150401	Thank you. There has been some explanation of the proposal, so I will refrain from doing so, but just praise the government for continuing this agreement with the KL. In the SF we are, in fact, clearly of the opinion that there is an urgent need for cheap housing around. This is especially in the light of the proposal we will be dealing with next time, which will mean that many people are likely to be put out of their homes because they cannot afford to pay it. And in future, it will be even harder for the municipalities to find housing for the many refugees to be placed in a permanent dwelling after having been in a temporary dwelling. It is not only refugees who lack housing. So do older people, so do single people, and so do students. So yes, I think that there is an urgent need for new cheap housing, and I would really like to commend the government for going the way that makes it easier for the municipality to build these homes, and this proposal will mean that. At the same time, increased demands are also made on energy standards in housing, and that is wonderful. We would very much like the government to take further initiatives to build more cheap housing in the future. The Minister should always be welcome to call the SF, because for us it will be one of the crucial challenges if we are to have room for both the many students who want to train, if we want to have room for the many refugees who come to the country, and if we want to have room for the many single people who may not be able to afford to live in a house. So much praise for continuing the agreement. And then, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, I say that they also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150545	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150558	Thank you very much. I am not normally rapporteur in this area, but have been given the task on behalf of Mr. Naser Khader. I would say that, as a starting point, we support the agreement here. I would also like to say that the arguments put forward by Mr. Ole Birk Olesen made a certain impression on me at least and therefore I think we just need to discuss more precisely in the next few rounds, how this affects, what can you say, the overheating on the building market. Because I think it was a relevant argument that came from down there that we have to take this into account when we discuss whether we should put more pressure on construction in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150644	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150657	I would like to thank you for the very broad support for this legislative proposal. After all, the bill translates... the agreement between the Government and the National Association of Municipalities on the follow-up to the negotiations on the municipalities' economy for 2016. I am pleased that there is support for the proposal, which will make it cheaper for municipalities to build general housing and that, at the same time, we will provide municipalities with a stable planning horizon until 2018. I also note support for the fact that it must also be possible to build in the future general housing of a better energy standard than required by the building regulations if it can be done in total economic terms and without public support. This is important if we are also to have a good and up-to-date general housing sector in the future. I look forward to the work we are going to do in committee now, and there will certainly be some clarifying questions about the legislative proposal, and of course I am making myself available for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150813	There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150817	After all, the bill will not permanently reduce the requirement for municipal participation to 10%. It is a temporary extension for 2 years until 31 December 2018, so it is almost in the draft law that the government says that this is not the right balance in the long term, because in the long term it has to be back at 14 per cent. Then I would like to ask the Minister a question: why is it necessary to extend it for two years instead of taking it back to 14 per cent? Now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150903	After all, it is not a secret that it has filled a lot in the municipal negotiations, and so it is now, in other words, the question of how to provide housing for the many refugees who have come to Denmark. It fills a lot in the municipalities; it fills a lot in the municipalities' economy and in the daily lives of the municipal councillors. That is why I see this as a helping hand to the municipalities at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150934	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen with his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150937	Is it to be understood that this bill is on our tables today and is supported by, among others, the European Parliament? The Danish People's Party, so that we can let the state spend more money housing refugees in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202150954	This must be seen as a hand-out to the municipalities, which are faced with a very, very large task. What reasons might the various parties have for supporting the proposal I shall not judge. But I can say that this should be seen as a helping hand to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151015	One person has just asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151021	I assume that the Minister's intention to make it temporary is precisely that we will probably and hopefully find other solutions to the challenges facing us. But even before the immigration we have seen, there were actually challenges in the general housing area. I just want to know if we agree that the temporary nature of the situation can probably also be reflected in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151043	Well, I can't tell you today what situation we're in in 1, 2 or 3 years. But I can say that a temporary extension has just been proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151055	Mrs Merete Dea Larsen for a second brief comment. Merete Dea Larsen No thanks.). No, there's no need for that. So I thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151114	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dan Jørgensen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151133	Thank you. For the Socialists, there is hardly anything more important than that people have a job. Anyone who knows the history of our party knows that we have always fought for people to stand up for in the morning, something to tear in. It is important for the individual, for one's self-esteem, but it is equally important for our society. This also applies, of course, when we talk about refugees and foreigners. We would like to see far more people entering the labour market than is the case today. That is why we have also put forward a large number of proposals on how to ensure that part of integration in Denmark. We cannot, however, support it, even though we agree with the intention behind this bill to introduce an integration benefit such as the one the government here imagines. First of all, we believe that the employment effect is quite small. It shows experience and then we believe that the negative impact on integration will be proportionate. We know from experience that lowering benefits so far will lead to outright poverty. Especially families with children will be hit hard. There will be no money for winter clothes that will not be able to afford to participate in leisure activities, and we think that is deeply critical. That is why we cannot support the proposal as it stands. We have said from the outset that we are not opposed to discussing performance levels. We'd be happy to do that. But to cut as much as is the case here, we cannot be behind it. Furthermore, in order to make the situation more tolerable for those whom it is going to hit, we have proposed a children's package in which, in other words, very specific help is given to families with children so that they can afford, among other things, money. to send their children away for leisure activities, buy winter clothes, etc. Unfortunately, the government did not want to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151357	One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Britt Baker from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151406	I just need to hear something from the rapporteur. Is it to be understood that the Socialists still believe that refugees and people coming to Denmark should be on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151414	No, it has to be understood that we were thrown out of the negotiations by the rapporteur's own minister, who, in order to express myself a bit bumpy here from the Parliamentary Chair, so that our proposals on how to have a possible reform were not discussed at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151430	Mrs. Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151432	Should I then understand that the Socialists will roll this proposal back if it should happen that the Socialists were given the opportunity to do so, or should I understand that the Socialists will leave the proposal as it is if it is adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151455	It must be understood that we certainly cannot support the current proposal. Of course, I cannot guarantee that we will have no other and better proposals in the future. On the contrary, we can say that the well-being of families with children is very close to our hearts, and that will also be reflected in our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151513	Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151515	Does the rapporteur think that the best way to integrate is to sit on high social benefits or to enter the labour market and get a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151524	I think I said quite clearly in my speech that for us there is nothing more important than getting a job. However, as the rapporteur will also know, if the rapporteur has studied what happened last time such a low level of benefit was introduced, it is true that it has a very small employment effect, but a very large negative effect on integration. In other words, it is not a suitable instrument, even though we share the intention that as many people as possible should work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151554	Sir. Marcus Knuth, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151557	[Sound emission]... if you look at the employment part alone, it was actually a very positive effect. But let it go. The rapporteur said that one would be willing to look at the level of social benefits. Can the rapporteur clarify this and say exactly what the level would be if that is not what we are presenting here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151621	Firstly, if the rapporteur intends to refer to a report as such, an argument that would support his own proposals, perhaps one should know that report. Well, I guess it's hardly positive that about 40 percent. is at work. What about the last 60%?? It can never be positive. Secondly, no, because we never came to a concrete outcome of any negotiations, since we were thrown out of those negotiations. So no, I have no proposal of that nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151654	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151657	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Dan Jørgensen, why the Socialists think it is right that from day one should have access to the full package of social benefits. That is what the Social Democrats think. Why is it not reasonable to earn the right to social benefits in Denmark before you have access to the full package?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151718	I can only repeat that at no time have we said that we did not want to be involved in discussing benefits. But we just never got to do that. We weren't welcome at the table. We could not even be allowed to propose that a package might be adopted which would make the effects on families with children a little more tolerable, that is to say that they could buy a flight suit or boots in winter, that children could go to leisure activities, etc. So, even though we actually said that okay, we have to accept that we must obviously not be involved in this, because this is something that we intend to pursue as a block policy, we could not even be allowed to discuss some things that could have been of great practical importance and made good sense to the people this is going to hit the hardest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151804	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151807	But if the Social Democrats think it appropriate that we should earn the right to social benefits in Denmark before we can get the full package, and they are willing to discuss the fact that there will be lower benefits for this group that we are talking about today, why are they not voting in favour? For then, after all, we can go some way towards what the Socialists would like to do. Then you can't have it all at once, but that's how it is with so much in life and especially here at Christiansborg. So that was the one question. The second question is: will the Socialists roll this back if it is at some point possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151844	I have already answered both questions from the platform here today, but I should like to try to spell it out completely. We are not voting in favour, and that is because this is going to push children's families out of poverty. Because we have evaluations from last time, there was a performance of this nature, which quite clearly says that it significantly damages integration. Even though there is a small employment effect, overall this still leads to far too few people being in work and then the bottom line result is worse integration. In relation to the second part of the question, I have also made it quite clear that we would like to discuss benefits. But we have quite a problem in doing so if we are not allowed to sit at the table, where specific decisions need to be taken, because it is more important for the government to send out a clear signal that there is therefore a block policy here. I think it is better for Denmark if we make broad solutions in these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151940	Sir. Jacob Mark of the SF has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202151944	Thank you. Now I heard the rapporteur from the Left say that the Rockwool Foundation's report showed that reducing or almost halving the benefits of refugees and getting them into the labour market was a success, and it was used as an argument for doing so again. Now I was just trying to look it up, and what I can find shows that there was really only an increase from 9 to 14 per cent. by people who came to work. This means that there was still a huge share that did not get into work. So what does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152013	I think I also argued in my reply that yes, an increase in employment rates could be measured, but that it was quite small compared to the other conclusions of the report which Mr. Jacob Mark refers to, which was quite clear, namely that it significantly damages integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152032	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur, as there are no more who have brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152043	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor. With the bill we are discussing here today, we are taking another step in the right direction, in the view of the Danish People's Party. The Folketing must decide whether the foreigners, many of whom were granted asylum under the former SR government, should be placed in cash assistance and instead receive the new lower start-up or integration benefit, if you like. If the bill is adopted, more foreigners will experience a reduction in benefits, and that is obvious, because there should of course be a difference between Danes whose families have lived here for generations, and people who have lived in Denmark only a few years, and of whom too many unfortunately have not contributed at all to the country that has accepted them. Last year, the Folketing introduced a residence requirement for the right to educational and cash benefits and a new lower allowance for persons who do not meet the residence requirement. The new rules mean that foreigners and, unfortunately, also in certain cases, although to a lesser extent, Danish nationals must meet a residence requirement in order to be able to obtain full cash benefits. The residence requirement implies that you must have resided in the Danish Kingdom, i.e.: in the Kingdom Community, for at least 7 out of the last 8 years to be entitled to the full benefit. The purpose of the amendment of the law was, among other things, to: to make it less attractive to seek asylum in Denmark. The Danish People's Party had already wanted the change to apply to all those who had resided under the previous government. As you know, this did not happen, but if this bill is adopted, it will happen from July. As part of the 2016 Finance Law Agreement between the Government, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party, it has been agreed to extend the circle for the reception of integration benefits according to the model that we know today. The extension of the group means that, in future, both those who already receive training or cash assistance and those who seek to receive it will receive the lower benefit if they do not meet the requirement to have been in the Kingdom for at least 7 out of the last 8 years. The amendment should not, in the view of the Danish People's Party, apply to Danish citizens, but we have of course accepted this as part of a compromise. In the real world it will be the case that the majority of those who are affected will be newly arrived aliens, so the draft law will serve the overall purpose of highlighting the difference between those who live and live in Denmark, one is tempted to say, and always has done so, that is, the Danes, and then those who have just come here. With these comments, I can say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill. We regard it as a sensible tightening; a tightening that we have previously called for. It has to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152312	One person has asked for a brief comment. It is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152318	Thank you. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has asked about the economy in the negotiations. Is the rapporteur concerned about how much money is being saved by this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152334	We've been asking about the economy in it. I do not remember the precise amounts, but the economic comments in the draft law show this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152342	Sofie Carsten Nielsen with his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152345	I would like to know whether the rapporteur has also taken an interest in what it will cost the municipalities in administration to have to review the many cases which are now to be resumed and whether the rapporteur has asked what bureaucratic costs it will have for the municipalities. As well as whether the rapporteur has asked what costs municipalities will now have to pay for individual benefits to the many people who are now falling below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152416	In fact, in the course of the discussions, we have asked about the administrative burdens which it would impose on the municipalities. I fully agree that there will be extra administration associated with this, and then you could also say that there will be some bureaucracy associated with this. The answer has been that yes, it will mean that there will be additional administration. One of the reasons why the bill only comes into force here on 1 April, and that you start to downgrade people in benefits on 1 July, is that you are among other things. for the sake of the municipalities could not make it come into force earlier. That is why we have had a discussion about when it was possible to enter into force, and we ended up seeing that it was 1 April, and then people could be put down on 1 July. And that was among other things. for the sake of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152457	Sir. Jacob Mark, SF, has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152501	I think this bill is really a pity because it will lead to increased poverty in Denmark, but I do not think that I am using it as an argument or as a question to the rapporteur. On the other hand, does the rapporteur consider that this proposal will mean that other Danes, i.e. students, the elderly, single parents, will find it easier or harder to have a permanent home?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152527	No, that is, this proposal serves the purpose of ensuring that Denmark appears less attractive when people are looking around Europe and when people have to decide which country they want to apply for asylum in. If this succeeds, it will mean that there will be greater access to the housing market for Danes, all the time that Danes will not experience being skipped into the home queue, as it happens now, when refugees have a right to have a home as quickly as possible, that is, a permanent residence. So if this works as intended, it will have the effect that there will be greater access to the housing market for people who already live here, including Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152608	Sir. Mark for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152611	It is not about those who are coming; it is about all those who are already in the municipalities. Many of them will lose half of their livelihoods and will have to be assigned even cheaper homes. This will make it even harder for ordinary people, single, young people to get the cheap housing in the municipalities. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152632	It is true that this bill is about those who are here, but we should not underestimate the signal that this bill will also send out to the outside world. Then it may be that we will have a new discussion about Denmark's reputation in the international press, but the proposal will, in our view, have an effect. In addition, we in the Danish People's Party feel that it is reasonable that people who have been here for a short time do not have access to the same high social benefits as Danes who have lived here for many years. That is basically why we think this is a sensible legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152703	Mrs Sandbæk, the alternative, has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152708	Thank you. Now this bill includes not only refugees, but also Danes who have not actually been here for 7 out of the last 8 years and who will therefore be placed in such a position as to receive a grant at the SU level, but without being able to take up work. Does the rapporteur not think that the Danes who come down to the very low level of service will find it difficult to afford to enter the housing market at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152739	It is true that this bill is designed in such a way that, unfortunately, there will also be Danish citizens who will be affected by it. This is not something we have wanted from the Danish People's Party. There have been other parties, the government, which has had the view that if you had to do this you would have to set it up in this way. But it is important to keep in mind that out of the approx. 10,000 people who will be affected by the bill from 1 July until the end of the year will be only about approx. 900 of those who are Danish nationals. So it is clear to a lesser extent that Danish citizens will be affected by this. Therefore, the bill also helps to emphasise that there is of course a difference between Danes who have been here all their lives and people who come from outside. And this is important for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152817	Mrs Sandbæk, on a second brief point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152821	I think that 900 Danes affected by this bill are quite many. I don't think you can just look at that lightly. But the reason why it should also affect Danes is that we are not allowed to discriminate under the conventions that we have signed. Mr. Martin Henriksen really that it is okay that there are 900 Danes who are now for posterity not able to afford a decent accommodation or come below the poverty line?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152850	I think it is important to bear in mind what challenges Denmark is facing. We are in the midst of a regular migration, a very, very violent migrant crisis which is not over yet and which one can fear will pick up again when the weather gets better. That is why we simply have to take decisions from time to time which will have elements in them that we really do not like, but which are simply necessary for the sake of the country and for the sake of being able to pass on a society to future generations that are just about connected. That is why we have done what we have done by the Danish People's Party. And on the whole, it has to be said that this is a fair and a good legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152928	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202152939	Thank you. Today we follow up on the change we made this summer, where we introduced the integration benefit for all new arrivals from abroad to Denmark. We introduced it because we firmly believe that the best, fastest and most effective way to successful integration is through the labour market. You shouldn't sit parked on high social benefits so high that it sometimes doesn't pay you to work at all. From a human point of view, I can well understand that if you come to Denmark, for example, the easy solution. as a refugee and unable to speak, do not know culture, see a new world and receive such high social benefits that there is no special benefit in taking care of a job. Of course, staying on high social benefits. And that's what we want to change. Instead, you have to learn Danish, participate in the labour market and create a network so that you can have a good and profitable time in Denmark, while at the same time contributing to society in a constructive way. With this bill, we introduce integration benefits for all who live in Denmark and receive education or cash benefits, but who have not stayed in Denmark for the last 7 out of 8 years. We are doing this on the basis of a view that it is important to provide residents of refugees and foreigners and others with an increased incentive to enter the labour market. We must have a sharp cut in the group that sits in isolation at home on transfer income and who resigns from society. This is where parallel societies arise, and that is exactly what we must oppose. It is about better integration, and it is about being able to pay off to work. If it can't, it's obvious that many people will choose the easy solution and choose working life from here, especially if you come here from a foreign culture and a foreign country. It's about reconciling things, so we get a clear and clear signal that if you take a job and do something active for your own integration, you get a higher income and you become a part of Danish society. The government has worked together with a broad majority in the Folketing to tighten the rules so that we have limited the influx here. Now we need to strengthen the integration of the many who have already come to Denmark. I am therefore surprised and appalled that the Social Democracy, which has otherwise supported our asylum restrictions and seen their common sense, does not seem to support such a central integration measure as this. We in the Left very much agree that the integration benefit, as it was adopted in the autumn, must of course also apply to residents who have not stayed in Denmark for the last 7 out of 8 years, and that is why we are voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153210	There are a number of brief comments. The first to Mr. Jacob Mark, yes, from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153219	Thank you. I've been a little concerned about this temporary housing and permanent housing. One of the first things I did in my time here in the Folketing was to ask the Minister of the Left in this area whether the Minister thought it was good with ghettos and good to place refugees in vulnerable residential areas. My question to the rapporteur will be: if you now cut the income of a great many of the refugees who already live in Denmark, almost overnight, will more refugees be released into vulnerable residential areas, or will there be fewer, or will it be the same level?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153256	Now we are embarking on two and three-way negotiations here very soon, where we will try to take care of integration as well as we can. We do not want people to go into vulnerable residential areas. We want people to enter the labour market. I can answer for my own area, Vordingborg, where I am elected, and so far there is little problem with having people placed around the municipality, despite the fact that it is a municipality with both major cities and rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153320	Sir. Jacob Mark, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153322	Then I can answer on behalf of Aarhus, whose alderman has also been quoted in the hearings to say that this could almost mean taking refugees out of their homes because there are not cheap housing enough. I would also like to say that in Køge, where you have four heavily burdened residential areas, it will be some of the only residential areas where you can afford to place these refugees. I just want to know whether the rapporteur really believes that this will not contribute to increased ghetto formation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153347	If we thought that this would contribute to increased ghetto formation, then we would not have a strategy to counter ghetto formation. This bill is designed to get people out to work. And with the questions I also heard before, to Mr. Martin Henriksen, the Danish People's Party, it is as if there is such an implied notion that refugees should of course just be permanent on social benefits, and therefore it is a problem. No, they don't. They need to get a job. As I said in my speech: if I came here from a distant, foreign country, from another culture, and were placed on a high social service, then it would be much easier to sit there instead of getting out and taking a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153427	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153431	Calculations from the Land Organisation of Rents show that a couple with a child will be able to pay a rent of DKK 4,079. This is evident from calculations today. Does the rapporteur think that such housing is available in all municipalities in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153453	As I said just now, we must get away from the premise that people who come here should just sit on integration benefits year after year. If you have a permanent mental illness or are disabled or there are other things that make you by no means accessible to the labour market, then you will be moving on to social benefits other than this. But if it is the case that you have the opportunity to enter the labour market, then of course you have to. Then you shouldn't be parked on these social benefits. It is a place that you are only for a very short period of time until you enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153524	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153528	I fully agree with the rapporteur that everyone should contribute, preferably from day one. We have put forward a large number of proposals on this. We are simply waiting for the government to get its integration work started and get refugees and immigrants to work instead of just talking about numbers. But the rapporteur in no way answered my question. A family with a child will have to stay until we get the people in the job, and what I agree with is that I have a place to stay for DKK 4,079. Does the rapporteur think that it is housing that is available today in all Danish municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153605	Now it is the case that the municipalities have the task of helping people with housing and possibly supporting them if it is the case that it is not possible to find one in that area. We are well aware that municipalities are therefore under pressure because they can get into situations, especially in some of the large cities where it can be difficult. And that is why we are very much looking forward to the forthcoming two and three-way negotiations, in which we must help the municipalities. We also provide the municipalities with financial support. I mean, it was about 300 million. kr. Last year and they get 300 million. kr. Again this year about. So, yes, we know that the municipalities are under pressure. That is also why one of our top priorities has been to reduce the number of asylum seekers, where I know the Radical Left has voted against virtually all the measures that have been taken to reduce the number of asylum seekers and to ease the pressure on local authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153650	Sir. Dan Jørgensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153653	Thank you. Since it is very well documented that this leads to worse integration, especially for families with children, which will be brought into poverty, and that some of what they will then not be able to do, for example. is to send children to leisure activities such as football and other activities, why would the Left not help to set aside a pool to remedy that particular problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153718	I now think that the wording is somewhat different from that of the rapporteur himself, who said that a reduction in social security benefits could be considered. All right, the rapporteur did not want to go into how much it was. But again: it was a success and it is not to put all the emphasis on e.g. The Rockwool Foundation, where it was said that if you look at the purely employment part in relation to the startup aid, it was a success. That is not to say that we can compare one to one. This time there is a Danish test involved, which must make people learn Danish much faster. There are a number of initiatives to integrate people much faster. But on the whole, this package will make sure that there are more people who can take care of themselves and become part of society. And that is the best thing in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153801	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153803	I like how the rapporteur quotes the parts of the report with which he agrees and forgets the parts with which the rapporteur disagrees. In other words, it is well documented that when you cut so much in benefits, it will lead to poverty, and that will, among other things, lead to poverty. As a result, children cannot go to leisure activities and many of the things that we know are really helping integration. Now the rapporteur did not reply for the first time, even though it is a very simple question, so I ask again: why does one not want to be involved in allocating a pool to remedy the very specific problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153839	We have a large number of initiatives and I do not think this is the right place to discuss the very wide range of integration initiatives that we will get started in the two and three-way negotiations. But on the whole, just ask the Danish Employers' Association, which says that this integration benefit will strengthen integration. Let us try to look at 1, 2, 3, 5 years into the future and see where the people who come here from abroad now will be in 5 years' time if you park them on high social benefits, versus if you give them integration benefits, so that they actually have an incentive to enter the labour market, then they enter the labour market and become part of society, have Danish friends and Danish colleagues and can take care of themselves. Then I am quite sure that being on the labour market is the right way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153922	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202153925	Does the rapporteur really think that people who come here as refugees and want to stay here and work in Denmark have no incentive to enter the labour market? Has the rapporteur ever met a person from Syria who does not say: when can I get into an internship? When can I enter the labour market? You can't come now, come back in a week, in three weeks, in a month I think it's an insult to those people who want to contribute to Danish society, but now can't get into the labour market, pretending they don't want to, but need an incentive for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202154001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202154003	I wish the rapporteur would try to look at the facts in this area. Getting refugees into the labour market has been a huge problem and something that for the previous government, too, and when we were in power in the 00s, was a huge issue. I think it is less than 30% that, after three years, is in the labour market. So it is a fine vision that the rapporteur has, but it is completely devoid of reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202154035	Mrs. Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202154037	So the rapporteur does not think that this is related to the completely failed integration process that we had at the time, when people were left in asylum centres where they were not allowed to learn Danish and were not allowed to contribute anything, but slowly sat and bewitched. And when they finally got into the municipalities, there was no great integration effort there either, so it is no wonder that they have not entered the labour market. I really hope that there will be some action so that this does not happen with the refugees who are coming now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202154105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202154107	Well, that's exactly what we're doing. Let me look at the Danish section first: under the previous government we saw very, very many who did not go up and took Danish exams 1, 2 and 3, and very many who did not go to the language centres. This integration benefit includes a 1,500 DKK language bonus. a month to pass Danish examination 2. In addition, it provides a very, very large economic incentive, and then there will be a large number of initiatives that we need to look at as part of the tripartite negotiations. So that is exactly what we are doing to move away from people sitting parked on high social benefits where there is no economic incentive to take a job. That's what we want to get away from.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202154147	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202154202	I already think that the debate we have had so far shows in full that there are no factual arguments at all for bringing forward such a bill. The normal reasons for making all these restrictions are to keep refugees out of the country. But here we are talking about extending the target group and the rules for a benefit that can only be described as a poverty benefit to a much larger group already in this country. It only shows with clarity that there is only one purpose, and that is to kick down on a group of people who are already having a hard time in this society and who we have not quite succeeded in integrating into Danish society, just as we have not succeeded in fulfilling what everyone is talking about, namely that they are just going to work and enter the labour market. Instead, you will place the blame for it with the people themselves with one great suspicion, which says that when they have not come to work, and when they live in something that some call parallel societies, which they have typically been assigned to by the municipality, yes, it is their own fault; then it is enough because they are lazy and do not really want to contribute to the Danish society. I would like to entertain the Folketing with a very strong experience I had yesterday, where I was visiting Lejerbo in Mjølnerparken. There was a lot of mention of them here last week, when on a somewhat wrong basis I found out that they were presented as if their solution to these problems was to take the cash help from people. I myself was a little worried because I saw that a Liberal Alliance rapporteur was very much in favour of the methods used. But it was a good example that you should not judge people until you have examined them yourself, and I went out and had a very good meeting with a number of people in the Mjølner Park who are responsible for the daily work in Lejerbo. It was a very, very strong experience that confirmed me in my prejudices, as some would call it, that there is nothing that those people would rather do than contribute to Danish society if they were given the opportunity, and if we help them in the right way. And it is above all by strengthening their school knowledge and then by taking them by hand and quietly giving them the confidence you gain when you find that you can solve tasks that you didn't think you could solve. It was a strong experience. This bill stands in a screaming contrast to the positive thinking I met out there among the residents and among immigrants. Because there is only one line of thought in this: we must punish those people who have already been hit very hard. So what's left of all this? There is only one thing left: the government and the bourgeois majority must have reduced the conditions of some of the weak groups in society, and they must have reduced the rules for social benefits because they know that this is something that is pushing wages in this country down. That is the sole purpose of such a bill. The second purpose is to stigmatise a particular population group so that one can run on the division that is already in Danish society around it. And the third and very low-practical reason for such a bill is that the bourgeois majority will provide money for tax cuts which they can then throw into the pockets of those who already have plenty. We have just received information that the 10%. The richest in this society has only gotten richer through the crisis, and the 10%. The poorest have become poorer. This bill will reinforce that development, and it will worsen, it can be said, the challenges and divisions that exist in the Danish population, and it will not benefit integration as much as a milligram. So the Enhedslisten votes against.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202154625	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202154634	The Liberal Alliance supports this bill. It cannot come as a surprise to a single person, since it has already been revealed to the public that this is the case. It is also part of the financial agreement we have concluded, so it is actually very simple. In the Liberal Alliance, we think it is a problem that too many people come to Denmark who are unable to contribute to their own subsistence. We want a society that is open to people from other countries and where people who have talent and ability come and work and train themselves in Denmark. People should be very welcome if they have something to contribute. We also want it to be easier for people in employment to have family reunification than it is today because we want an open Denmark. However, we have real problems with the number of asylum seekers we see in these years. In 2014, we received 15,000 asylum seekers. In 2015, we received 21,000 asylum seekers. This year the government is budgeting 25 000 asylum seekers and I have to say that one day I do not believe in that figure of 25 000. I think it's gonna be a lot, much higher. There might as well be 35,000 and 45,000 asylum seekers coming to Denmark this year if nothing drastic happens. In the Liberal Alliance, we have proposed what we call a humane asylum freeze. In other words, we must say no to the fact that asylum can be sought in Denmark itself. On the other hand, we will take a little more quota refugees from UN refugee camps, and then we will help massively in Syria and Syria's neighbouring countries. A lot of people in here have rejected that, and I can understand that, because sometimes it can be difficult with innovation. The problem is, of course, that there are not so many other offers of what we need to do in order to reduce the number of asylum seekers. One of the ways in which it can be done, however, is to regulate public welfare services and make it less attractive to come to Denmark and live on passive support than it has been in the past. And it is one thing that we achieve with this proposal, that is to say by extending the circle that can come up with integration benefits. Some people have said in the debate: yes, but that also applies to Danish citizens returning home. And I think that is quite fair, so that if you have not been involved in contributing to Danish society for a number of years and returning home, then you have to buy a ticket to the party before you receive it again. I think that is quite fair and square • a system that we might even be able to spread even more in relation to our general immigration policy. There is no doubt that it will have positive effects on employment for the group we are talking about, because there are more people who will benefit from taking a job and because more will be pushed into employment. In fact, we could easily have a much more open asylum policy than we have and than we would have if we were prepared to look even more closely at the system of benefits. And I actually think it's going to end up not in this parliamentary assembly, but in this term we're going to look again at the benefits before we go to the general election. I do not want to reject that at all if we continue to see the large quantities of asylum seekers that we are currently seeing. So the Liberal Alliance is going into this with open eyes, and we think it is a good idea to choose to adopt this bill, which, fortunately, we already know in advance that there is a majority in favour. So, with enthusiasm, we shall vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202155042	No one has asked for brief comments. Excuse me, sir. Finn Sørensen has asked for a brief comment. It just looks a little weird. I don't think sir. Finn Sørensen is in his right place, for sir. Finn Sørensen has been pushed in as Pia Olsen Dyhr, and much can be said of Mr. Finn Sørensen, but he doesn't look like Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr. Will Mr. Finn Sørensen just pull in from his right place? That's it, and then we'll give the floor to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202155114	Thank you. I've been in an identity crisis in this hall before. It's not that long ago, I hope it won't be a recurring problem. But I can at least confirm that it is Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, who is standing up there, and that I would like to ask Mr Ammitzbøll a question. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. This is about the way in which the rapporteur built up his argument, where, if I may put it briefly, it played a rather important role, including as a justification for this bill. But as we are all aware, this bill is about people who are already here. So it's all about deterring them from leaving the country again, or what's it really to do with this deterrent argument? You've come here, we've given them a residence permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202155204	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202155206	First of all, I must apologize unreservedly to Mr. Finn Sørensen. 'Cause I'm the one who actually grabbed Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen's place a little earlier, and then he sat in the back, so I kind of caused the confusion. That wasn't my intention. Having said that, I would like to answer the question. I mean, there are two things in it. Firstly, once again, if you do not make this humane asylum stop, which I am talking about where you can help more people, but fewer people in Denmark, then we have to send out some signals beyond the borders of the country, and I think that you will also get to that by expanding the group. Secondly, there is, of course, another element which is also positive, namely that it will push people into looking for work and thus it will have an employment effect for this group. So in this way there is both what I talked about most, but there is also an integration aspect that I think should be welcomed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202155259	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202155301	What we must then understand from the deterrent is that it must be a massive signal to refugees all over the world that when they come to Denmark they are treated as badly as possible in relation to the standards we normally have in Denmark for how we treat the unemployed and, for that matter, sick people. That must be the point. As far as getting more people into work is concerned, it is only linked to the idea that if you take the money from a whole lot of unemployed people, you are helping to increase competition, if you may say so, in the labour market, which will push wages down, on the basis of a liberal philosophy that the lower wages will be, the more people will get into work. Is it true that this is the way the thinking is?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202155352	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202155354	I can confirm to Mr. Finn Sørensen that I stand here as a representative of a liberal party. And it is clear that then there are some major differences from a Marxist party like that, as Mr. Finn Sørensen represents. We believe in the experience that already exists that shows that more people are going into employment when you reduce the benefit. We know that's gonna happen. That's what Mr. Finn Sørensen didn't see it for other reasons, but we know it has a good result. In relation to the deterrent, I would say that Denmark is faced with a choice between three roads. One is sir. Finn Sørensen, where the borders are open and anyone who wants to come in. The second is a humane moratorium on asylum proposed by the Liberal Alliance. And until we get there, that's about getting a little unattractive, unfortunately, the only way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202155437	No one else has asked for brief comments. Somebody's been playing chair games, either. That is why we can move on to the next rapporteur in the rapporteur's series, which is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202155448	Thank you very much. Today we are writing on the story about Denmark. It is a story that our surroundings find it difficult to connect with the Denmark they know and which many Danes find very difficult to connect with the Denmark we know. We know that one of the reasons why Denmark has been so successful and famous throughout the world as a pioneering country economically, socially and environmentally is that we have been a very equal society. Few have had too much and fewer too little. But the gap between rich and poor is increasing all the time, and this law will make it even greater. It will create unprecedented poverty in Denmark and will so much stand in the way of integration. This chapter in the history of Denmark started in August 2015 with L 2, where the integration grant was introduced for the new refugees. I remember the debate very clearly. As far as the opposition is concerned, it was based on the fact that, except for one, all the hearings pointed out that the introduction of integration benefits would not bring more people into the labour market. The result would be poverty, and children would suffer in particular. Inger Løjberg disagreed. The children would not be poor because their parents would enter the labour market, she said. In this context, she took the Rockwool Foundation hostage for her views, although it is clear from the Foundation's study that only marginally more people entered the labour market, and only after four years. In addition, the investigation was carried out during a recovery period which had not been taken into account in the figures. Inger Løjberg also disagreed with his own ministry, which stated that the law would only bring 400 people into the labour market. But there are many thousands of people who are affected by the benefits of integration and do not enter the labour market, regardless of the fact that Inger Løjberg disagrees with it. It is not because they lack the motivation to do so, because it brings in all new refugees, but because the miserable integration plans and rigid systems of the past slowly, but surely, have caused the refugees to suffer. That is why so many people are outside the labour market today, and the benefits of integration will not change that. On the contrary, it will make it even more difficult for refugees to get a surplus to look for jobs when they have to fight constantly to make everyday life work together. Instead of introducing the integration service, it would be obvious to start the integration process from day one in the asylum phase by providing intensive language courses, identifying asylum seekers, retraining those who have immediately useful competences, sending them to the municipalities that demand their competences, finding employment in a cooperation between municipalities and companies, allowing them to move to the municipalities where a job is created, instead of being tied as a refugee to the municipality first assigned to the refugee, recruiting significantly more social counsellors to match the refugees with the jobs, changing the red tape that is in the way of recruitment, and more involvement of civil society and volunteers. That work could have been started by the government at the time of its accession. I know no steps have been taken in this direction yet, but at least I am pleased that steps are finally being taken for tripartite negotiations with a focus on access to the labour market. Some municipalities have understood what it takes. The municipality of Vejle has, for example: a sunshine story about a young mother of three young children with a sick man and very poor Danish knowledge. The municipality got her a job in Bilka, where she joined the bakery. In addition to the work, she received Danish instruction. Turns out the customers loved her, and she loved them. She received a course in hygiene and is now fully integrated into the labour market. These are the kinds of stories I would like to hear about Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202155925	Thank you to the rapporteur. I should just like to point out that the Minister is not mentioned by name, but by the Minister's title. I hope that this will be taken into account in future. There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202155942	Mrs Sandbæk used the phrase that some refugees were affected by the integration service. And that makes it sound as if [Sound Outfall] against the refugees. Can one not still say that Denmark is doing them a very great service by allowing them to stay in Denmark and that they are getting this benefit? Because the starting point is that they come from something quite different, and now we are still giving them away a standard of living which must be said to be fair in relation to what they come from. So is it not unreasonable to present it as if we are doing something negative to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160023	Thank you. After all, one cannot say that a standard of living is reasonable somewhere because one might get a little more money in Denmark than one got there. It depends quite on what the cost of living is in the country you come from. Many Syrians do not come from poverty. They come from war now, but many of them have been doctors or lawyers and have lived in large houses. They live in several larger houses and I have at least seen that when I have traveled in the Middle East than those we live in Denmark and have cars and holidays. They don't come from poor conditions. But that does not change the fact that what you are offering them here in Denmark is a benefit that is below the poverty line and which, compared to what we others have, is very, very poor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160106	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160109	Can Mrs Ulla Sandbæk confirm that the standard of living in Syria on average is much lower than it is in Denmark? So, if you look at the average GDP, it is much higher in Denmark than it is in Syria, and so we have to assume that if the refugees constitute some average of the population down there, they will on average be used to a much lower standard of living than we have in Denmark. Can Mrs Ulla Sandbæk confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160135	No, Mrs Ulla Sandbæk cannot. For GDP may well be much lower in one country, but the cost of living is also correspondingly lower. I myself lived a number of years in Palestine, and GDP is crazy much lower than it is in Denmark, but nevertheless people have a place to live, they have food on the table, they have for their daily necessities. Many of them even find money to send their children to university, even though it costs money. So you cannot calculate from GDP if you do not include all the other life relationships in your considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160207	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160215	Thank you. This bill extends poverty benefits to people who have been in Denmark for many years, and Danes who have worked for a number of years abroad and return to Denmark. This means that more children will now be poor; it means that families will be evicted from their homes on 1 July; it means that the municipalities will now have even greater problems in finding housing in which people on poverty benefit can live; and then it means that, according to themselves, the municipalities are now about to manage a sea of charity boxes in which people have to queue to search for one by one. I think it's interesting to see what kind of society we're creating with this kind of clienting. Because it is neither liberal nor responsible for me to let the hell take the last of them, as this bill seems to me to do. For me, it is responsible to do everything we can to ensure that people outside the labour market get into jobs, regardless of who they are and where they come from. Everyone must contribute; with this bill, we can make families poor, and we know that poor families have difficulty in gaining a foothold in the labour market. But worst of all, we also know that poor children are much more likely to grow up in poverty and end up in transfer income than children who avoid poverty. If it continues, we have not just set foot for a number of people, then we have also made the task bigger and more expensive for ourselves in the longer term, and that does not make sense to me. In addition, we then impose an enormous amount of bureaucratic burdens on the municipalities at a time when, I believe, we should all be fully aware that the municipalities have very large tasks ahead of them. I have not been able to get an answer to the question, but it may be that the Minister will reply to it in a few moments what it will cost the municipalities in administration to have to go through all the cases where people are now to be put down in service. And I have just received a reply from the Minister a short time ago as to how many people the government expects this bill to hit. These are 21,000 people, and I would like to hear how many of them are families and how many children are among them. I have not yet been able to get an answer as to what the Minister envisages that the municipalities will now have to bear all these costs. How much extra cost will the municipalities get now, when they will have to face a lot of single costs for those families who can no longer afford flysuits and school bags? At any rate, I hope that the Minister can provide the answers. The Minister may be able to reply in a moment, but at least before the second reading. Because it has to be assumed that the government can at least explain that this is going to be a really good business for the state in the short term. That must be part of the purpose, even if the long-term consequences are likely to increase the bill. The Radical Left is opposed to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160541	There is, for the time being, one brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160549	I think it was another contribution by the Radicals, where we are very good at problematizing what the majority in this House is doing by tightening up on the rules and benefits of foreigners, without providing any alternative. In other words, once we have tightened up here, it is because we do not want Denmark to be more attractive to seek asylum in and come to as a refugee than other European countries. For then we will be such a refugee magnet, where we will have a number which are insurmountable and which we cannot integrate and which will cause us massive social problems. What are the radicals going to do when they do not want to tighten up these areas? How, then, will the Radicals ensure that we do not have a deeply fragmented society with huge social and cultural problems that we cannot deal with?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160633	I'm not quite sure if sir. Rasmus Jarlov knows that we are dealing with Bill No. L 111, which is about reducing benefits for people who have been in Denmark for a long time. Is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is well aware of that? 'Cause if mr. Rasmus Jarlov was aware of this, so he did not want to talk about reducing the benefit in order to prevent people from coming to Denmark. At least it wasn't sir. Rasmus Jarlov's former government party colleague's argument for Bill No. L 111.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160658	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160700	I have no colleagues in the government, since I am not a minister myself, and I am only responsible for conservative politics. The motivation behind the fact that there is a majority in favour of implementing this legislation is that this is a comprehensive package of immigration policies, including a policy on which services can be provided to ensure that Denmark is no more attractive than other European countries to seek asylum in and be a refugee in. And things are connected: If you have high benefits, Denmark becomes more attractive. I hope the Radicals are also able to see that connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160736	But I am incredibly pleased that the rapporteur says so clearly that Bill No. L 111 is about scaring people from coming to Denmark. Because then they'll know that when they've been here for less than 7 out of the last 8 years, they'll be on an integration benefit. I'm sure that information will go through clearly. In the Radical Left, however, we do not believe that it serves a purpose. We do not believe that it is any good to scare by reducing benefits when those it affects are the people who have been in Denmark for a long time. They are now being made poor, and the price is therefore being higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160818	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160822	Thank you. I just want to ask you about the political position. Why does the Radical Left think that, when you come to Denmark, you should have access from day one or very quickly to the package of social benefits that everyone else has access to? Why is that the point of view? Would it not be more reasonable to say that one must be [sic] have been [red] here for a number of years before one gets access to what most Danish citizens have access to? Can't Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen follow the logic of that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160854	In the Radical Left, we are really concerned about reforms that work. After all, we are not frightened of reform, and perhaps I would accuse Mr. Martin Henriksen's party for being. Generally speaking, we are quite concerned that people have access to the labour market, contribute and get started quickly. But we are also concerned with reforms that work, and this proposal is about making a large group of people, 21 000 people who have been in Denmark for a number of years, poor people, that is, putting them below the poverty line, making their children poor. What do we know about that? We know that this means that the risk that these children will end up on transfer income, which is expensive for Danish society, will increase in the long term. I don't think that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160942	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202160946	Politics is also about principles, and I really do not think that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen answered the question, which is actually quite straightforward: why does the Radical Left not think it is reasonable to say that if you come to Denmark, it will take a while before you have access to the social benefits to which everyone else has access? Then you can have it as a principle that you have to work and pay taxes for some time before you have access to social benefits, or you can have it as a principle, which is, of course, about you having to stay in the realm for a certain period of time before you have access to the benefits that everyone else has access to. Is that not a very healthy and reasonable principle? If the Radical Left does not think so, I would like to ask why they are not doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202161029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202161032	What is a healthy and reasonable principle is that we must do as we can, and we certainly believe that everyone who comes to Denmark should. They must contribute everything they can from day one. This requires, for example, that they should: I am allowed to work, but that is something the rapporteur's party wants to prevent, and it does not in any way make any sense to me. For that is the way to contribute to a society. But I do not think it makes sense to have as a principle that if you come without preconditions and have fled war, death and destruction, then you have to have a lower benefit than everyone else. It does not do that for the Radical Left. It must make sense for how we develop our society in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202161112	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202161117	By its very nature, we can have disagreements about what we think is reasonable. A family with two children who have stayed in Denmark 1⁄2 years and are on integration benefit, after rent, tax, heating, electricity and day care will have 9,600 DKK. available. After 2 years they will have 11,600 DKK, i.e. after tax, rent, heat, electricity and day care. I don't know if it's unreasonable. But I can guarantee that for a very, very many families coming from the Middle East it will be an increase in living standards. You can probably find examples of some where it will be a fall if you are highly educated and so on. and hasn't gotten to work after that long in Denmark... you have to hope that you are, but it's a different discussion. But I do think that these amounts are quite reasonable, given that they are some people who have not been in Denmark before and have not helped to pay the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202161228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202161230	Now there are some calculations from the renter's LO that show that a couple with a child will be reduced to pay rent for DKK 4,079. You have to be able to find a place to live for that, and the municipalities say very clearly that it is really, really difficult to find housing that is so cheap. And yes, you can discuss reasonableness in many things. I think it is an absurd argument to use that because you come from a lower standard of living in a country with quite different prices and opportunities, you have to live with a lower standard of living in Denmark. It depends on what is possible, and when the LEO of the renters says that it is not possible to find housing for this low rent, it is out there in reality where the municipalities are that we have the challenge. I think we all have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202161329	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202161333	You can always choose who you want to listen to in such a debate here, and I think there is a tendency there to be a little selective sometimes. I am dealing with what the Royal Danish Ministry of Integration says about the amount of money available. There, after six months, the family mentioned by the rapporteur, in other words a couple with a child, has a lump sum of DKr 8 800. a month, and it is again after tax, rent, heating, electricity and daycare, and rent costs of DKK 6,000 are provided. I am at least a little surprised that the Radical Left chooses to listen more to those who fit a little better into theirs, what to say, rhetoric than one listens to the ministries and the calculations they do. I think that is something that the Radical Left is doing in other contexts, but that is not what you choose to do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202161426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202161428	We are listening all the way around, and with regard to the matter of listening selectively, I think I can say the same to the rapporteur. Because I really think that the cry of distress from the municipalities right now is something that all parties here in the Folketing should take very seriously. The emergency cry that comes from the municipalities is: it will not be possible for us to find housing for these people who are now being significantly reduced in performance. Those homes don't exist. Then maybe we could start by building those homes. I hope that the rapporteur will help me to support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202161500	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202161509	I've been thinking about something while I've been listening to the treatment, and that was sir. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party, who made me think it happens sometimes. The rapporteur asks whether the radical rapporteur does not think that it is right that we should only be treated as a Danish citizen after some time has elapsed in Denmark, so that it is only after that that that we should be treated as a cash aid recipient. And I just can't understand it. So, for months I've had to hear about this jewelry proposal, where the Danish People's Party's argument for taking valuables from refugees has been that they must be treated from day one like cash aid recipients. So, the argument is not consistent, because if we really want to treat them as cash aid recipients, for which the Danish People's Party itself has drummed, then of course they must have the same thing as them. Then I'll go to my speech. I will start with the perhaps a little harsh part, and then I will end with some calls to the Minister on how to get refugees into work. I seriously fear that this proposal will create a new subclass in Denmark. And it's not something I'm just making up. It is based on the hearings, whether you read it from the Save Children or the Red Cross or read the Rockwool Foundation report from 2012. It says that this proposal will create more child poverty. It says that families will find it difficult to afford basic necessities such as medicine or sending their children to children's birthdays. This reminds us of the first reading we had in the Chamber this summer when it was decided to do this for the refugees who are coming in the future. That's when Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left that he simply could not imagine that one could be so poor that one could not afford to send one's children to children's birthdays. In fact, I think I have to invite either the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen, or Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen out to see the society that does not exist in their world; I said that at the time. There are people who are so poor. These are studies that indicate that this proposal will create child poverty. I just think it's misleading to call this service an integration benefit, because God doesn't know it. It is fair that you have the political attitude, that you think this should be done, but it is not an integration benefit. It will not help integration that young children cannot afford to go to the same things as their Danish comrades; that they cannot afford the same necessities as their Danish comrades. It's not integration. It is also not integration for the adults who come here to have their benefits halved. Now they say from one day to the next from 1 July, I think it is, or June: Now we're gonna half your benefits if you're single over 30 years old. After all, it is people who have set themselves up in a dwelling which has made their budgets, which have a solid basis of living and which is being told right now: Now you have to live for half. Well, I've come across these people who say they feel isolated because they can't afford the same things. They can't afford to go out, they can't afford to see the friends they meet in their education. Is that integration or what? I really don't think it is. I find that very worrying. Then there's this whole part of ghettos that I really think is troubling too. I was so happy when I heard the Minister say this summer that the Left will work actively against ghettos. But several of the mayors of the country and one of the country's aldermen have said that you cannot afford to find accommodation for these refugees. We simply cannot find housing that is cheap enough for these refugees to be able to pay them. I called some councilmen who I know from my time in the municipality and told them about this proposal, and the first thing they said was, you don't mean that. Well, they can't even imagine how they're gonna find homes for these people who're gonna pay. So it will, but it will mean ghetto formation, and overall I fear that this proposal will mean that, in addition to creating a subclass, you will fail with integration and that it will be very much more expensive in the long term to deal with these people and to get these people going. I think that instead we should use the gunpowder, and I hope that the Minister will take the initiative to give these refugees more language training so that they can learn Danish more quickly; to give them more competence so that companies know what they can do and so that these people know how to get into the Danish labour market; to match these refugees with the neighbourhoods where they need their skills; to make industry packages, so that in the municipalities you can give them the training that suits the company in the vicinity so that it is easy to enter the labour market; and to go in cooperation with the municipalities that there are job consultants in all the municipalities who can always help small and medium-sized enterprises to take in refugees without having to bury it in all sorts of troublesome bureaucracy. I think I can get people to work. So it cannot be allowed to allow people to grow up in poverty. That is why we are voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162011	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162018	Thank you. It was more because Mr. Jacob Mark asked about the Danish People's Party's policy, and then I would just like to say in relation to the so-called jewellery proposal, which is called L 87, that the reason why we thought it was very good was that asylum seekers have been better off than Danes with public debt for years. There is, of course, a very broad framework for what can be done, i.e. seizure by Danes who have debts to the public, where there has, in fact, been no possibility at all of confiscating valuables from asylum seekers, which everything else equally owes to the public from day one, because everyone else than themselves pays. There we have the opportunity to remove a very positive and lucrative preferential treatment for asylum seekers and then put them on an equal footing with Danish citizens. They came down to the level, if you can use that term, with Danish citizens with this bill, and it's better than that they're significantly better off than Danish citizens. Then the rest of the Folketing panicked when it came to CNN, and then it wasn't quite as good as it could have been, but it's a different story. Compared to this proposal, the Danish People's Party has the basic view that there must be a difference between whether you are a Danish citizen or you come from outside. And in this bill it will certainly be the case that Danish citizens will indirectly be better off than people coming from outside, and that is quite reasonable and common sense. So that was more of a comment than a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162130	I see myself as being reasonably sharp, but I hardly understood what the rapporteur said. Well, actually, I didn't. For several months now I have heard so many Danish People's Party members say that it is therefore more than reasonable that when they come to the country, refugees must return their values over 3,000 DKK. or 10,000 kroner, for example. must pay for their health care or stay. So I have heard the Danish People's Party say that several times. Now that they have been treated as cash benefits, that is to say they get the same as a Danish cash benefit recipient, they say: No, they have to wait, because they must have just been here for some time before we equate them with the Danes. I just don't think it's the same thing. That is the contradictory argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162209	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162212	I shall try to explain the Danish People's Party's policy to Mr. Jacob Mark. So, in relation to the second legislative proposal, the so-called jewellery bill, L 87, it has been the case that asylum seekers have been better off than Danes for years. Because if a Dane is in debt to the government, there is quite a broad framework for what the authorities can do in the form of basically confiscating and there you can also seize valuables with affection value in very special cases. So it has been possible for Danes for years; it has been completely unproblematic. Then we simply proposed doing the same with asylum seekers. And it is very reasonable to say that asylum seekers can be compared with Danes with public debt, because when asylum seekers come to Denmark, everyone else pays for their stay. So I can't understand why it has to be so hard to understand. But there's a reason we're in different parties. That was also more a comment than a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162304	It's still one of the wildest things I've ever heard, sir. Martin Henriksen say that it is possible to compare asylum seekers who have fled from war with Danes who have debts to the public. I really don't think you can. These are people who have fled from the Islamic State, people who have had to leave everything behind that you compare with some of my comrades. I simply do not think we can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162322	We just have to remember that we're not using the form you're using on the speaking chair of the Folketing. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162332	We often hear this argument that you can't afford to go to football or children's birthday. We hear that a lot. I just want to know whether the rapporteur knows of any concrete examples of Danish families not being willing to invite refugee children to their birthday. It is as if there is such a thinking that there is no integration in society. I mean, I have children I don't know if the rapporteur has children and I don't know any parents who don't want to bring refugee children to a birthday party. I just don't know it. Nor do I know examples of football clubs which will not help integrate refugee children into their clubs if they cannot afford to pay a quota. I just don't know it. On the contrary, I know many examples of the opposite, so there is such a thinking on the left which, incidentally, has failed disastrously over many decades when it comes to integration • that there is no integration going on out there in civil society. But I can tell you that there is. Danes are not such people who say to children: You must not go to our home if you cannot afford a birthday present.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162452	Well, I'll give Mr. Joachim B. Olsen quite right: I think it is fantastic that civil society intervenes when you do not do this here at Castle. I have heard someone say that civil society currently exists despite the Castle and not because of the Castle. And I know very many classes and very many parents who will do exactly as the rapporteur says and, of course, invite those children who cannot afford. But what you have to understand is the situation in which the families and the children who cannot afford are in. Well, it's embarrassing time and again not to have the money, it's embarrassing time and again to be invited on such a grace ticket. It is not about not being invited, it is about the family keeping them at home or the children staying at home because they simply do not have the same opportunities as other children. I don't know if sir. Joachim B. Olsen can imagine.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162541	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162544	Let me tell you what I know young immigrants find embarrassing because I have talked to many of them: they are sick and tired of having parents who have lived their whole lives on transfer income. They have lost respect for them in many cases. I've been out in Rødovre talking to the children of immigrants whose parents have been on transfer income all their lives. They don't just find that embarrassing, they think it's a disaster. And what has certainly not solved this problem is that we in this country have been paying high benefits for many decades, and this has prevented these people from becoming part of the labour market. We have put them on early retirement and they have been on various public benefits for many years. This has been a disaster, and the Left has a huge responsibility for this development. You try to do something about that here, and we actually know from research that it helps. Then we can discuss the effect, but we know it helps.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162646	We know precisely from research that the effects of these benefits are minimal, so the Rockwool Foundation itself said so in their 2012 report. And if you compare it to the fact that many people grow up in poverty, what is it worth? I totally agree that we need to get people to work, but I just don't think this low performance is the way to do it. I myself came up with five or six suggestions on how to do it: better work with job consultants in the municipalities, faster realskills clearance of the people who come here, they need to learn Danish more quickly, and we need to give them more intensive language training. So it doesn't help to take half their money and say, "You'll just get started."
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162726	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162729	Thank you. It was all right. I pressed the button. I would just like to ask the rapporteur one thing. Can the rapporteur recognise that people are actually fleeing for reasons other than the fact that they are just fleeing the Islamic State? For example, people come up here to seek a better life, and you can't think about that. Perhaps the rest of us would, but can the rapporteur recognise that there are reasons other than the Islamic State for choosing to emigrate?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162753	I am in total agreement with that, but they will not be granted asylum. The people who are granted asylum are personally persecuted or have fled from war. Those who come up to seek happiness because they have grown up in a poor country or fled climate change are not given asylum, and that is why we are not talking about them today. About those who come up here just to get a better life, the SF has, as it were, said that we would like to help bring them home faster so that we could help those who are personally persecuted or flee from war more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162823	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162825	That's nice to hear. Then I have another question. Can the rapporteur recognise that if a Dane is going on cash aid, one can actually have his things taken away, it can be virtually anything if it is estimated that one has too large a fortune in relation to being authorized to receive cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162848	I fully acknowledge that you must not have fortunes. I assume that the rapporteur is now referring to the jewelry proposal. Anyway, basically, I believe that there is a huge difference between an asylum seeker and a cash aid recipient. After all, the jewelry proposal meant taking money from asylum seekers, and if the asylum seeker, speaking of our previous debate, does not get asylum, he will be sent back home without a penny in his pocket. I think that there is a huge difference between people on cash benefits and asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162919	Sir. Ib Poulsen. No, it was a mistake, I think. Someone had come to sign in. There will then be no further brief comments, thank you to the rapporteur. Would you like to speak? I'm sorry you were in the wrong place. Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsoe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202162944	As you can see, I don't look at all like Ib Poulsen. What I would like to ask about in relation to the Socialist People's Party is that the Socialist People's Party continues to mention it here with the jewelry proposal as something really terrible, and I would just like to remind the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party that, at social funerals in Denmark, it is the case that if a person dies and no money has been set aside for a funeral, or the relatives have money for a funeral, the municipality can manage it. It also means entering the deceased's apartment, finding the values that are, including jewelry, and selling them to the highest bidder to get the money back into the municipal treasury. I cannot imagine that the Socialist People's Party thinks this is so terrible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163040	I don't know what to say. I do not think that a bad situation requires that asylum seekers should be given a bad situation. I am not aware of the law that the rapporteur is talking about, but I would just like to say that if it is the case that you go in and take people's jewelry and sell them on when people are dead, I do not think that in itself is an argument for taking the jewelry of asylum seekers. I just have to say that I do not really see the comparison or the justice in that one should do the other at the same time. I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163116	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe? No. There are no further brief comments; no more have been made. Thank you to the rapporteur. The last in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163133	Thank you. We on the Conservative side are really happy about this bill. We believe that it is absolutely necessary for us to vote through it. It is about extending the target group for the integration service to include a little more people who have come to Denmark in recent years. There are three reasons for this. This slightly lower integration benefit will ensure that Denmark becomes a less attractive country to apply to as an asylum seeker and as a refugee, because it is now the case that, when you consider where to settle, you consider how the economic situation will be where you choose to settle. It is important that Denmark does not appear as a more generous country with higher benefits than our neighbouring countries, so that we do not become a magnet for the flow of refugees. We cannot understand the number that is coming to Denmark at the moment. That is why it is very important that we do not get more than our neighbouring countries. The second objective is to get more people into work. We know from an empirical point of view that if there is a greater incentive to take a job, and there will be, if the difference between what you can get by not being in work and being in work is increased, by having a lower integration benefit, then there will be more people coming into work. That is a good thing from every point of view. Finally, of course, it is also a question of the economy. Well, there are limited resources in Denmark, which is why we need to give priority to how we spend the money. There we in the Conservatives think we should be reluctant to give people more than is necessary. That was all the benefits. Then you might also ask: Is that fair? Are we going too far in terms of what we can afford as a country to these people? There I have the view that, whether we reduced the benefit further or not, we would still offer a quite fine standard of living to the refugees who come to Denmark in relation to what they have been used to. Now I have heard Mrs Ulla Sandbæk say on several occasions that people in Syria have a higher standard of living than we have in Denmark. You just don't get any sober economists to agree with that. Even if price differences are adjusted, the standard of living in the countries from which people flee is far, far lower than it is in Denmark. You get more money in this country. You can buy more food, more clothes, you can live in better houses etc. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Since we have to assume and so it should be that those who come here are some of the most impoverished who flee war and destruction and a terrible existence, it is still the case that we offer them something that is better than what they come from. Therefore, from a moral point of view, I cannot see that we should do something bad with the refugees, by taking them up here and giving them a lot of money, offering them a perfectly decent, fair standard of living, which is probably higher than the average where they come from. So I also think, from a reasonable point of view, that we have our own in mind, that what we are doing here is not an attack on the refugees in any way whatsoever. We can be fully familiar with what we are doing here. We give the refugees a better life by accepting them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163501	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163504	Thank you very much. I would just like to make it clear that, of course, I have not in any way said that there is a higher standard of living in Syria than in Denmark. Well, then I'd be extremely stupid. You don't. But you cannot compare two standards of living. People from Syria come here and they compare themselves with the people who already live in Denmark. They compare themselves with what the children's classmates can do. They're comparing themselves to what their neighbors can do. So you cannot compare two standards of living. You have to compare yourself with the people in whose country you live. Then I say that in Syria you do have a low standard of living, and when the people who come here have compared themselves with the other people in Syria, they have an okay life.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163551	I am delighted that we agree that it did not sound like that to me before that, that the standard of living that people get up here, even when they come to integration benefits, is perfectly reasonable and quite good in relation to what the people who come from, among other things. Syria, comes from the standard of living. Then it is true that they will probably have a standard of living which is at the bottom of the average in Danish society. I don't have a problem with that. I do not think that one has the right to enter and then be as prosperous as the people of Denmark. In fact, I think you get a gift by staying in Denmark, and in addition to having the stay and protection of the Danish state and being allowed to live here in our peaceful and good societies, you also get a handful of money in addition. I think it is generous of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163637	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163639	No, we do not agree at all that people who come here should not be compared to the Danes they live with. I would be able to look with mild eyes at this proposal if it were actually the case that people who come here as refugees could go out and get a job, that is, if this bill would be the necessary incentive. But first of all, I don't think that those people need an incentive... they want a job. Secondly, it is very, very difficult to get a job, and the government has done little to make it possible for those people to get a job. That is why I asked in my rapporteur's speech: why not start by guaranteeing access to the labour market? And if you succeeded, you could make a poverty benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163725	You have to know who you're comparing with. It is entirely up to people themselves what level of ambition they have and what they are striving for. I am just saying: the standard of living we offer to people in Denmark is perfectly reasonable and probably higher than that which you would have where you came from as a refugee. Otherwise, you wouldn't move up here either. After all, it is a voluntary choice whether or not to move to Denmark. I do not know what is involved in ensuring better access to the labour market. If the alternative has some concrete proposals in relation to the aim which I think everyone agrees with, we would of course like to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163802	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163805	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur is at a root in the municipal area, and I am very concerned about the situation of the municipalities following this bill. I fear that there will not be enough housing because you half a lot of the services of these refugees • refugees back from 2008 and I have heard a lot of mayors say that. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur himself is not concerned that this will lead to more ghettos and more vulnerable residential areas in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163833	I understand the point. You might ask: If people have a lower income, can they afford to pay the rent? It is my clear view that there are certainly areas in Denmark where you can easily get a home for what you have as a lump sum with this integration benefit. Then there are some who are bound to live in certain places in Denmark within a certain number of years, but for many people they can move to where there are cheap homes, and they must do so. There is no need for everyone to live in Copenhagen. Besides, I don't think that's the most important thing here. The most important thing is that we have limited the influx to Denmark. The details of how we deal with the municipal economy must of course also be addressed, but that is not my main concern, I would say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163914	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163917	Now, as far as I know, Copenhagen is exempt from the refugee quota allocation, but it is the case that virtually all municipalities in Denmark have refugees, except Copenhagen. After all, Aarhus takes a great many, and they have said: We have many heavily burdened residential areas, and we simply do not know where to place them, because they cannot afford to pay an expensive rent. The same goes for my own municipality, Køge. Does the rapporteur really think that these refugees, who all want a low income, should move to cities that happen to have many cheap housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202163950	My point was that when Copenhagen does not have forced refugees, it is striking that so many people actually live in Copenhagen, and that is because they move there by themselves. There it is that I say that then you have to move somewhere else. You have to move to the municipalities where there are opportunities to get cheap housing. We know that the rent in the Copenhagen area is much higher than it is elsewhere in the country, and so there are places in the country where you can find a accommodation for the amount available with this integration benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164019	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164030	Thank you for the debate we have had this afternoon. After all, we are in a situation where there have been historically many refugees in Europe, but also in Denmark. This involves pressure on public expenditure on integration, not least because so many of those who come do not find their way into the labour market. Therefore, last year, the government introduced as the first integration grant, which means that from 1 September last year, all those who come to Denmark and who have not stayed in Denmark for 7 out of the last 8 years have received integration benefits if they were seeking help. We have done so because we firmly believe that the best way to successful integration in Denmark is through the labour market. I think we can all agree on that. However, I am also fully aware that we do not all agree on what it takes to carry out the task. I believe that there is an urgent need to ensure that it is always worth taking a job. That's what integration benefits are all about. With this bill we will introduce integration benefits for all who live in Denmark and who receive education and cash benefits, but who have not stayed in Denmark for 7 out of the last 8 years and therefore not only for the new arrivals. We do this because it is also important for refugees and others who live here in Denmark to be integrated into the labour market. I am aware that, both in connection with the law we adopted last year and in the consultation on this bill, various critical points have emerged regarding the integration service, including, of course, the level of benefits in itself and the assessment of Denmark's obligations to comply with international conventions. To conclude, I can only say straight away that we are, of course, complying with the international obligations to which we ourselves have committed ourselves, and that the benefits of integration are in no way contrary to international conventions. Having said that, it is certainly true that you are not going to live a life in rushes and dus on integration benefits, but that is not the point either. Because the intention is not to be at all on integration benefits. After all, the idea is to get into the labour market. The purpose of the benefit is precisely to get people into employment and thus to become self-supporting. It is important for the individual to get into jobs and it is important for integration, and it is of course also important for the economy. That is why it was both right and necessary to introduce the benefits of integration for the new arrivals, which is why it is right and necessary to ensure that it is now also applicable to all those who have been in the country for a number of years. That is why we have tabled the bill and, of course, I thank you for the support it has received here in the Danish Parliament today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164339	We are waiting for brief comments. It's there, one at least. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164345	Thank you. More than six months ago, in another debate on the benefits of integration, I asked what the Minister thought about ghettos, and the Minister said very clearly that I was glad that you should not make policies that create more ghettos in Denmark. Now I hear a number of mayors around the country say that this integration benefit will be so low that many of those who have already been placed in permanent housing will have to go out again. Where does the minister think municipalities should place these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164415	But listen to me, sir. Jacob Mark: That presupposes such a rather quirky attitude, and that is actually what I think is characteristic of the left here today, i.e. that one has such a rather quirky attitude. You have a view of things that means that you think everyone should be on the benefits of integration in the years ahead. That's not what's meant to be. The idea is to enter the labour market so that you can support yourself and so that you can pay your own home. The point is not to be on integration benefits. That is, of course, the whole point of introducing the benefits of integration. The fact that we have even introduced a language bonus in Denmark, which allows us to qualify for the release of it, simply means that we get help to get closer to the labour market. So I think it is such a rather awkward attitude to the idea that people should, as it were, be on the benefit of integration. That's not what's meant to be. The point is to get into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164512	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164514	That is also why I put forward my proposals on how to get them into the labour market. I do not think that a low level of benefit in itself will bring more people into the labour market, and we have also tried it in the past, where very little success was achieved in getting people into the labour market. It was under the take-off. And so I would say that even if we manage to get a lot of people into the labour market in the long term, then what about 1 June or 1 July or when? There, for natural reasons, they will not all be able to be on the labour market. What are the municipalities going to do there to find permanent housing for both those who are going out and those who are coming in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164548	After all, there is some time now, and it is about doing everything you can to be self-supporting. And we have to say, sir. Jacob Mark could then say and admit that when the benefit is so low, it doesn't have to be so high until it pays better to work than to be on integration benefits. That's kind of the whole point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164613	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164616	Thank you. I also asked the questions during my rapporteur's speech, so I assume that the Minister is prepared. I would like to hear from the Minister how much expenditure the Minister expects the municipalities will have by going through the cases, i.e. in the form of legal costs, and how much extra costs the municipalities will have in the form of single costs for people who are not now able to afford absolutely basic things • school bags, fly-suits and the sort of things that have been up in the past in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164655	In relation to the procedure, we have estimated that there will be additional administrative costs for about 12 million. kr. The National Association of Municipalities has used a figure of its own. They say it's about. 150,000 cases to be examined manually. But these are the figures of the National Association of Municipalities. I have no reason to say that I do not think it is right or that I think it is higher or lower, but it is at least an estimate from the National Association of Municipalities, and that is what I am going to use here. These are the numbers we're dealing with in relation to the administration of this law. As far as additional costs are concerned, no additional costs have been calculated, and it is obviously not possible to do so, because every time a person asks for something more from the municipality, it is assessed on a case-by-case basis, and therefore it is not possible to assess immediately whether it will trigger additional costs on that front.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164806	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164807	But is it not the Minister's view that significant additional costs will be included for municipalities in the form of individual costs, given that the benefit is so significantly included?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164818	In other words, without putting your head on the block, if you look back at the experience with the start-up aid, you will see that it was not the case that it caused a lot more additional costs, as I remember it, but I would like to make that reservation. We can, of course, investigate this, because it is the best thing to look up against, that is, exactly what it looked like in the time of the startup aid. But it will be the case that every single time it has to be assessed in concrete terms whether or not there is a need for extra benefits here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164853	You may speak a little more quietly here on the left, so the Minister has the opportunity to unfold. Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202164906	Thank you very much. I think we all think it would be a great happiness for refugees to enter the labour market, but the question is, of course, whether this bill is the right way to get people into the labour market. In fact, this presupposes that all those who are currently on social transfers remain because they believe that this is the easiest and worthwhile thing to do. But I do not think that any people who are on social transfers say that they want to let all of us pay for their lives because they don't want to work. I think you're on social transfer because you can't get a job. If that is the case, then the benefits of integration will not help people into the labour market at all. The Minister's own department has said that out of the 21 000 people who will be covered by this law, they expect 400 people to work. 400 people. Does the Minister think that this is quite wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165004	Firstly, I hope that Mrs Sandbæk will agree with me on that, of course I cannot know that it is important to create a labour market where there is a real incentive to take a job. If the benefits are very high, then there is no incentive. That's just like the prerequisite for this discussion. I can tell you straight. If the benefits are too high, in my opinion there will be people who think that everything else equal is easier to be on public service than to take a job. Nor can you think of the individual in that way. But we can be thought of as politicians if we do not ensure that we create a system in which it pays to work, because it is a fundamental value in Denmark, namely that we have to work and support ourselves. Secondly, in terms of integration benefits, we cannot look at the number in isolation. The benefit must be combined with both the ceiling on cash benefits and, of course, the 225-hour rule, which I believe is one of the things that absolutely helps to bring more, especially women, into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165118	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165122	But I still did not get any answers to where jobs come from if the Ministry has estimated that there are only 400 jobs. Moreover, I do not agree that those who are on cash aid think it is fair that the rest of us should pay above our taxes in order that they are at home on the couch. I think the vast majority of people see a value in working. It is out in the workplace that you have your workmates; that is what makes many people feel, and therefore I fundamentally disagree that working must pay off. I mean, you're entitled to a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165200	Then I simply have to say that we disagree. That is sometimes the case in politics. Sometimes the roads have to be separated, and I simply have to say that the roads separate here for Mrs Ulla Sandbæk and me. That's the way it is. I believe that we have an obligation as politicians to create a labour market where it pays to work. I think we do. This must be seen in the light of the system of benefits and the very, very large welfare system we have. However, it is fair that one can disagree, but I can say that I do in fact disagree with Mrs Ulla Sandbæk in a vertical way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165234	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165243	Thank you. Would the Minister not like to deal with reality a little? We have a labour market where we are currently. ori • If the haemoglobin level exceeds 12 g/ dl (7.5 mmol/ l), the dose should be reduced by approximately 25%. • If the haemoglobin level continues to increase, the dose should be reduced by approximately 25%. • If the haemoglobin level This shows the big labour survey that we get every quarter. We have approx. So 15,000 flex jobs, they're not, because they can't get a flex job. It is people who are on unemployment benefits, but they are searched for a flex job. There's just nothing for them. We have thousands of people and I will be careful to quantify with reduced working capacity who would like to enter the labour market, but they just cannot do so because the labour market does not accept them. So all that talk about a lower benefit getting people into work is just a bad excuse. And that is also clear from the bill. The minister doesn't believe it himself. 500 people are expected to get to work by bothering, I do not know how many, many thousands of people are already poor. The minister doesn't even believe that it's just a bad excuse to put down a performance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165341	I mean, I can guarantee Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen for believing that this bill will work, otherwise I would never have put it before the Folketing. That would be the most foolish thing to do as a minister. So I'd really like to get rid of that. Sir. Finn Sørensen cannot just pull elements out of reality and say that hoof, then reality looks like that. One has to relate to the whole reality and not just such a fragmented reality. And the whole reality is that there is also a cash aid ceiling and a 225-hour rule, plus that we have a labour market where there is a very large flow. In fact, this is what characterises the Danish labour market, i.e. that there is a very large flow of people going from one job to another, that there are many entering the labour market and that there are many leaving the labour market, even within a month. By the way, I think that Mr. Finn Sørensen completely forgets to mention in this equation that there are also lots of Eastern Europeans on the Danish labour market. Who is it that says that none of the refugees we are talking about here are there, for example? can come in and take some of that work? It's work that's also for a lot of these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165455	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165458	It is better to take some elements out of reality than not to relate to it at all, and that was just what I wanted the Minister to do. The fact is, there isn't enough jobs for all people, no matter how much you make people poor. Would the Minister not like to say that the government itself does not believe this? If you thought it had an employment effect, you would probably not have written that you expect 500 people to work. It's just a bad excuse to put down a performance because there's a completely different agenda with this. One is, in general, to reduce the lowest social benefits, because it is known that the minimum wage will then follow downwards, and the other is to raise money for tax cuts, which will primarily benefit the rich. That is, of course, the real purpose of this bill and what will come tomorrow and all the other attempts made by this government to impoverish large sections of the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165554	Well, dearest friends, it's kind of like time is standing still in here, because first Mr. Finn Sørensen has a question, and I'll answer it, and then Mr. Sørensen raises it. Finn Sørensen asks the same question. So now I can just answer it again. I mean, if I didn't believe this bill had any effect, I wouldn't have put it forward; then the government wouldn't have put it forward. And Mr. Finn Sørensen will then have to relate to the whole reality and see that the integration benefit is one part, that there is a 225-hour rule that is the second part and that there is a cash benefits ceiling, and that is the third part. It may well be that Mr. Finn Sørensen disagrees with these things, but you can't just live so completely fragmented and then don't relate to that it's a big complex and that the labour market is, as it is now in Denmark, that there is a very large both approach and departure every month. It is not a static size, actually quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165646	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for the floor at all, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165705	The debate is open. The first in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202165721	Thank you. After all, in Denmark we have chosen to implement the part-time directive in such a way that it is the social partners who set the framework for implementation. The part-time law in Denmark then gives minimum rights to part-time workers who are not covered by an agreement that meets the requirements of the directive. The implementation that has been elected in Denmark has led the Commission back in 2012 and 2013 to address the then government, because it is believed that there is a problem for the public employees in the education sector, for example, who are employed for a weekly working time of less than 8 hours and who may also have an employment relationship lasting less than 1 month. The then government, with Minister for Employment, Mr Mette Frederiksen, indicated to the Commission that it would then be tried out, for example. by making an agreement with KL to implement some of these rights in that agreement. It has then partly happened back in 2014, but remains that there is still a need to amend this law, the part-time law, to ensure that Danish legislation naturally complies with the part-time directive. That is why this bill has been put forward by the government, and I am not going to explain it because the government can do it itself. It is planned to amend the part-time law to simplify and simplify the current law and to refer only to the framework agreement drawn up between the LO and the DA to implement the part-time directive. This also removes the reference to some of the other framework agreements in this area. In other words, implementation is maintained, based on agreements between the social partners, in which any disputes will also have to be settled within the professional system. It is an implementation that we in the Social Democratic Party can support. Of course, we think it is sensible to maintain that agreements in the labour market are the cornerstone. Then, in the hearings, you can see, some questions have been raised about what minimum rights you have if you have an employment relationship that is less than one month old. There has been a discussion over the years about whether you are a loose employee or whether you fall under this part-time law. There has been a call for more clarity on this, and that is, of course, something we want to use the legislative process on. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170011	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170013	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I am quite sure that the rapporteur and I agree that we must respect the Danish model of agreement. A solution to this has been found in relation to these directives, which deal with the rights of employees, which say that they must then be implemented in the agreement. In other words, the social partners are making some agreements. And this bill is about picking up those groups that are not covered by a directive implementation in some agreement. We can discuss whether this is sensible, but that is how we have chosen to do it at home. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: if the rapporteur is in favour of free bargaining, why does the rapporteur support a legislative proposal which interferes with the right to negotiate and restricts it, because the agreements concluded by the social partners in the public sector are, after all, a line drawn up and said that they do not want to be looked at; they want only to use the agreement between the LO and the DA to solve this problem? Will the rapporteur recognise that this is an encroachment on the right to negotiate and, in fact, contrary to the way in which we usually implement directives?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170127	No, I don't want to admit that. In other words, it is true that the law refers to four framework agreements, namely that concluded between the LO and the DA and those concluded in the municipal area, in the state field and for the hospital community. These are the last three annexes which the draft law here proposes to remove, and thus refer to the framework agreement between the LO and the DA. I have to say that when I read the law, I can see that there is a challenge in that, as legislators, if the framework agreements are amended, we should also amend the law, and that is why I think it is a more sensible practice to refer to the framework agreement in force at any time, and in that sense also to ensure that the reference that is then made is to the framework agreement concluded between the LO and the DA and that disputes in this respect must be resolved in the professional system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170220	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170221	We agree on the very last point, but the rapporteur has to admit that this is contrary to the legislation and practice in this area so far. And that is also contrary to the thinking underlying the whole way in which we implement directives, because it has been said that we have to base the agreements and that they are implemented there on the labour market in force, which is now covered by the agreement. And these are different labour markets. So the rapporteur does not escape the fact that in this case the right of free negotiation is being exercised as freely as it can now be when it is being monitored by the European Union, and I think the rapporteur has to deal with that. After all, public employees' organizations are protesting loudly, and the LO is not very warm in their defence of the solution that has been chosen. I'll be damned.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170310	I don't know. Now I have also spoken to the public organisations. Whether the protest is loud or not, I don't know. If I have understood correctly, then it is still the case that if you are covered by an agreement, then the agreement is applicable, of course, if the agreement complies with EU rules. I am well aware that this is quite common practice in this area, and that is why I do not see the point that this should destroy the free opportunities for negotiation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170336	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170344	There are good reasons to ensure that there is no discrimination against workers, whether part-time or full-time. Of course, employees, regardless of their place of work, must be guaranteed proper conditions, but also some rights. The European Commission has pointed out to Denmark that employees in the education sector in the municipal area, whose weekly working time was less than 8 hours, had less favourable conditions than comparable full-time employees. This would then be contrary to the EU's part-time directive. Danish legislation regulates this area in the part-time law, which aims to ensure part-time employees who are not covered by an agreement. As has already been said, it was the Commission's view that we in Denmark did not fully comply with the part-time directive and the principle that everyone should have equal rights. In other words, the draft law aims to ensure that part-time workers have the same favourable conditions as comparable full-time employees, so that there is no discrimination. In the Danish People's Party, we can of course support the fact that there is no discrimination against workers, whether part-time or full-time, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170514	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170527	With the bill today, the government proposes to ensure consistency between the part-time law and the part-time directive. As the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, it must help to ensure that all part-time workers who are not guaranteed their minimum rights through a framework agreement or an agreement are covered by the provisions of the LO-DA agreement on part-time work. As I have said, it is the European Commission which, back in 2013, addressed a reasoned opinion on the implementation of the part-time directive. The previous government has previously informed the Commission that an initiative would be taken to amend the part-time law. Of course, we share the same view: the part-time law and the part-time directive must be in line and we must commit ourselves to it under the part-time directive. That is why we have this bill today. The draft law will simplify the part-time law. We are doing away with the annexes to the part-time law which limit the principle of non-discrimination to part-time workers with an average weekly working time of more than 10 hours. Part-time workers with an average weekly working time of less than 10 hours shall have the same minimum rights. Therefore, those Annexes are repealed. Overall, with today's draft law, we ensure that all part-time workers receive the minimum rights to which they are entitled as a result of the part-time directive. And at the same time, we ensure consistency between the part-time law and EU law. That is why the Left supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170705	For the time being, Mr President, there is one brief comment. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170709	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur is quite sure that all part-time workers are now guaranteed the same rights as full-time workers. The rapporteur must then think that we are complying with the directive and responding to the Commission's criticism. After all, the Commission has criticised two other points. One is the question of people employed less than a month. That problem still exists. The rapporteur can well confirm that there are agreements and regulations in the labour market which mean that, if you are employed under one month of age, you do not have the same rights. Secondly, the Commission points to the civil servant law, which, after all, has an 8-hour limit, which means that people employed in the field of civil servants who work less than 8 hours do not have the same rights as those who work 8 hours and over. Where's this bill taken into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170805	We have not included this because what this is about is part-time workers. It is the part-time law that we are discussing today. And this is not covered by this draft law with regard to fixed-term employment of less than one month, nor do we believe that what the Commission has written gives us reason for amending the law on fixed-term work by the legislator.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170831	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170832	Thank you for your answer. Well, that's quite honest. But does this mean that the rapporteur believes that the Commission is quite wrong in interpreting the part-time directive when the Commission criticises the other two points, i.e. the one-month recruitment and employee law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170849	I do not think that the fact that the Commission is writing about these areas gives us reason to legislate. The social partners have an obligation in relation to fixed-term employment, but I do not think that, in relation to the issue of fixed-term employment, we should go in and change the legislative proposal that we have today. So that is another piece of legislation. And I think that this is a matter for the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170917	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202170932	Can I take a sip of water without it being withdrawn from speaking time? Yes). Thank you. The Enhedslisten is in principle opposed to EU directives that interfere with collective agreements and force the social partners to change the collective agreements. This is an interference in the right of free negotiation. However, we also believe that once the damage has been done, it must be done properly. Then we must ensure that, to the extent that the directives introduce rights to employees through any EU legislation, they must be respected. Now it is about the part-time law implementing the 1981 part-time directive, which says that part-time workers must have the same rights as permanent workers. In this respect, the Commission considers that the Danish implementation of the directive does not comply with the Directive's requirements for equal treatment. This is because a number of public contracts excluded employees under 8 hours and staff under 1 month for the requirement that they should be treated on an equal footing with permanent employees. Even a blind chicken can find a grain of gold, and that statement fits very well here. The Commission and the European Union in general are a blind hen who does not have an eye for the Danish model of agreement, they do not understand it, and therefore they keep interfering with it and become angry when we do not do what they say we should do. But the Commission is right that people employed less than 10 or 8 hours or less than 1 month should not be discriminated against. They must then have the same rights as others, of course calculated relatively to the extent that it makes sense. The government's bill doesn't guarantee that. It merely removes some annexes with the agreements of public employees, which may cause problems in relation to the Commission's letter of formal notice, but do not relate to reality. At the same time, the government is guilty of serious interference with the right of free negotiation. At home it has been decided that the parties to the agreement should implement the directive as well as the rules of other labour market directives in the collective agreements. That is their responsibility, so to speak. That's right, we've decided. You can discuss the sense of it. Basically, I do not think that is sensible, but previous governments and social partners have decided that this is how we do it. This is at least a formal respect for the fact that the negotiating rights of the leading organisations are only formal, because how much negotiating right is there in the fact that you have to write something into your agreement, as they have decided down there in Brussels? But this principle is so important to the government in this context, because it will dictate that it is the LO-DA agreement that will apply in all other areas. I fully agree with the public employees' protests against this interference in their negotiating rights. It is also paradoxical because public servants and their counterparts in the municipal and regional areas have just removed the 8-hour rule, so that there is now no discrimination in this respect. So what is the reason why the reference to these agreements should be removed from the law? We have not received an answer to that. Nor will the Government say that there is still an 8-hour rule in the State's territory in the agreement, which is due to the government itself, because the Minister for Finance has interrupted negotiations to correct it. With this bill, the government is aware that it is co-responsible for illegal activities, but you just pretend like nothing. Nor will the government respond to the Commission's criticism that the current rules do not guarantee people with less than one month's employment against discrimination and that the Commission does not take the government's reference to another directive for good goods as an excuse for not doing anything about it. In order to complete the policy of ostrich, the government refuses to consider that there is an 8-hour limit in the civil servant's law, which also involves discrimination and which is therefore contrary to the directive and, first and foremost, common sense. To put it briefly: this bill is something worse than a joke. It must be corrected, not because the Commission says so, but because the Commission has quite substantively and in principle about equal treatment, and if it is not corrected, the Enhedslisten will vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202171338	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202171400	Sometimes you are presented with a bill where you actually think there are good arguments for voting no, for voting yellow or for voting yes, and this is one of those legislative proposals. In principle, we think it is wrong for people who are not covered by an agreement to be able to get an agreement over their heads, as is the case here, with the DA and the LO agreement being dragged down over their heads. That could be an argument for voting no. On the other hand, we also think that it is in principle wrong for the European Union to interfere in what kind of rights employees in Denmark should have. And that could be an argument for the opposite. It could then be said that we should vote yellow, but in principle it is such a bit girlish attitude to have on legislative proposals. As it stands right now, we are leaning enough to vote yes, but it is not a resounding yes. But when we consider a yes, it is because, as I understand it at least, it gives the possibility that the disputes that must be in this area can be settled in Denmark in the professional system. And this is perhaps the best and most pragmatic way of resolving this problem. We think it is reasonable to try to avoid a case before the European Commission, because where such a case ends up, one might be a little concerned about it. But I don't think this is easy. It may be said that it is a good thing that it is a relatively small area and not a big matter, but there are some fundamental points in this which I must admit that I think are a little bit difficult. But as things stand right now, we're leaning enough for purely pragmatic reasons to support this bill, but it's not something we think is particularly funny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202171645	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202171646	Thank you. I am actually very pleased to hear the rapporteur say that an argument for voting 'yes' is the provision that disputes must be settled in the professional system. That is the only argument I can find that it would be a good idea to implement directives through the agreements, because that is precisely what it is possible to do. So I understand. I just wanted to say that this is not an argument for voting in favour of this bill. Because you can vote it down, and then it is the rules that apply, and it says in advance that disputes must be settled in the professional system. So you don't have to vote in favour of the bill for that reason. Then I agree with the rapporteur when he says that the European Union should not interfere in this at all. I totally agree. But I did not understand how this could be an argument for voting yes. That is how I saw the rapporteur's list of what might make you vote 'no' and what might make you vote 'yes'. There the rapporteur has just mentioned that what could get the rapporteur to vote 'yes' was that the European Union should not interfere. But that's what the European Union is doing, so I couldn't really make it stick together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202171748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202171750	It may also be that I was able to explain it a little intricately. My fear is that, and I understand that the bill will be voted through, that if it were to become a 'no', there would be a case with the European Commission and where it would just as easily end up, there would be some uncertainty. We certainly do not prefer that uncertainty. And in any case, it would be politicians who would decide what rights it was for part-time workers in Denmark in this area, and that is probably the worst evil in that, after all, it will be so that any disputes will be settled in Denmark in the professional system. After all, we prefer this, even though we think it is wrong in principle that people should have an agreement over their heads, regardless of which agreement it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202171901	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202171903	Well, the principle point of view also agrees with Enhedslisten, and that is why we are opposed to the EU adopting directives that interfere with the way we make the labour market at home, where it is the social partners that enter into agreements. They will find out for themselves which agreements they will conclude and in which areas they will apply. So we are in complete agreement on that. I just want to say that the adoption of this bill does not remove the risk of a case being brought before the European Court of Justice, because there are two points of criticism which have not been answered by this bill and which the Commission is bringing forward, namely that of recruitment of less than one month and the 8-hour limit of the civil servant's law, plus the fact that the illegality continues.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202171946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202171949	There is something I could also understand from the rapporteur of the Left: some things that have not been decided on in this draft law. I can only say that it has been our view that of all the evils we could choose from here, it is a yes the least evil. That is how it is sometimes in politics and perhaps in particular when the EU interferes in relation to the Danish labour market. And, by the way, I fully agree that the European Union often does not fully understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202172030	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202172050	The draft law proposes that the part-time law should be in line with the part-time directive and, in this respect, the part-time law should be simplified in such a way as to remove the annexes governing the conditions of non-contractual employees in the public sector. In this way, everyone who is not covered by framework agreements or agreements will in future be covered by Annex A to the Act and secure their minimum rights through the framework agreement between DA and LO. Of course, I think it is positive that the Minister for Employment is seeking the best possible compliance with the directive and is looking at the European Commission's reasoned opinion. That is why I have to say that in the alternative, we support the purpose of the legislative proposal. However, I am concerned that the draft law does not address the whole criticism of the European Commission's reasoned opinion, namely the part relating to part-time workers who work less than one month, which also highlights a number of consultation responses. I am also aware that the Minister has responded to the criticism of those hearings by pointing out that that part concerns the law on fixed-term work and not the part-time law. What just puzzles me is that the European Commission will address such a request for inadequate compliance with the part-time directive, which is transposed into the part-time law, if the issue concerns another Danish law, namely the law on fixed-term employment, in which the EU also has a directive. That is why I would like the Minister to explain this once again from the platform, among other things. in relation to whether the Minister has responded to the European Commission and expressed those views and whether a feedback has been received from the European Commission in relation to that criticism. But with these calls, the alternative is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202172235	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202172250	Thank you. The legislative proposal has now been examined by a number of rapporteurs, but I would like to say very briefly that we support it, of course, when there is a reasoned opinion from the European Commission, and it did so in 2013 in the time of the previous government. The opinion pointed out that not all part-time workers had the same minimum rights. Then it is very good that the government and we now ensure it. Proper implementation of employees' rights must be ensured. This is not an over-implementation, it is a correct implementation, so that we ensure that everyone has the rights that we ourselves have helped to adopt with the part-time directive. I have also read the hearings and have taken note of the same concerns expressed by previous rapporteurs, but I take as if at face value now that the government has been through this thoroughly and believe that this law, L 106, now meets the requirements of the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202172410	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202172422	The SF supports every step towards creating a level playing field for workers. Access to equal rights is challenged in the part-time field, which is why we are, as a starting point, positive about the draft law and also about the fact that it is stated that the Danish system of professional law is the foundation. However, several consultation responses from the trade union organizations raise a number of questions as to whether the draft law actually solves the problems of employees who work less than one month. Other weaknesses are also identified, including: the relationship with the Civil Service Act. Moreover, it is quite obvious that the trade unions have different assessments of the wisdom of extending the LO-DA agreement to the public sector. I think that in these places Enhedslisten has raised a number of relevant questions. The SF will await the work of the committee and the replies of the Minister before we finally take a position on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202172531	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202172542	Thank you. In fact, it is new to me that we have something called the part-time law, but it is certainly a very good concept, a law that does not apply all the time, but only some of the time. Although I am in favour of less legislation, it is of course very important that this issue is also dealt with. It is clear that when there is a request from the European Union, we obviously have to comply with it. At least in this case. Actually, I feel the same way as sir. Joachim B. Olsen, that I too am leaning towards voting in favour of this bill. I also believe that there is a large majority in favour of this, so that the Conservatives will probably not be decisive, but I am inclined to vote in favour, because of course it is necessary to respond to this EU approach. It is also right that the legal situation should be clarified. There seems to be some disagreements that we need to rectify. I also feel a little strange about the fact that we are raising an agreement to law. Actually, I think that's a bad thing. I would also like to hear from the Minister what considerations he has about this, because this is that we have the LO and DA, which make an agreement, and then we go in and support it by exalting it to be applicable law for a number of people who, as a rule, are not part of this agreement, is not something we should do normally. It is precisely not part of our highly valued Danish model that we go in and support with legislation that there are certain conditions that must apply because they are agreed by the parties to the agreement. It's kind of weird to do it that way. I would also like to know what has been done in other countries, because I am not familiar with this system of collective agreements as comprehensive as we have in Denmark, which is why I think that this directive must have been implemented differently in other countries around us. I would like to hear something more about this from the Minister if that could be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202172744	There are no brief comments, so I would like to thank the rapporteur. And then we will have the opportunity to hear the Minister, because the next person on the floor is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202172757	Thank you to the rapporteurs and thank you for the support for the draft law that has been expressed. With the bill, the government wants to ensure that the part-time law is in line with the part-time directive, and that, in its simplicity, is what it is all about. This is a relatively technical draft law illustrating the division of labour between the two sides of industry and the Folketing in the implementation of EU directives in the field of labour law. It is a division of labour which has a major role for the social partners and where the role of the legislator is to provide a safety net for employees who are not guaranteed their minimum rights under a framework agreement or collective agreement. The draft law ensures that the implementation of the part-time directive continues to be anchored in the collective agreement implementation and that disputes continue to be resolved in the professional system in line with the Danish model. As Minister for Employment, I am very pleased with this. I hope, of course, for broad support for the draft law and look forward to the work on the follow-up to the Employment Committee. Two questions have been asked to me. Firstly, there is the question as to why we are not doing anything about the fixed-term employees, that is. those employed less than one month. I can inform you that it is the view of both this government and the previous government that there is no problem for the legislator in this area. This does not necessarily mean that there is no problem in Denmark, but if so, it is something that belongs to the social partners, to the parties to the agreement. We do not believe that there is an area in which the legislator is in conflict with the obligations we have under the directive in relation to the legislation on fixed-term employment. To the last question about this lifting of an agreement into law, I can tell you that what we are doing is what is most in line with the Danish model when you look at the implementation of EU regulation. Because what we are doing is ensuring a framework agreement which, in fact, contains only the minimum provisions of the directive and which is already linked to the part-time law. We are spreading it so that if there are other areas in the public sector in Denmark that are not covered by separate agreements, then employees here can support the framework agreement which gives them nothing but the minimum rights of the directive. So that's the simple way to do it. In other countries these open contractual relations typically do not exist. There are often both minimum wage regulations and many other levels where parliaments lay the foundations, and this is very different from one country to another. But this, in my opinion, is the epitome of the Danish model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173126	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173127	What we are doing here is completely contrary to the basic principles of the Danish model, which is that it is the social partners and not the Folketing who decide what rights employees have. However, as I said in my speech: the damage has been done when the part-time law was passed and the directive came into being. So what we are discussing now is whether employees at home have the rights set out in the directive. I would therefore like to say to the Minister: does the Minister agree that compliance with the directive is the responsibility of the legislator? It is true that we then have a division of labour at home, where it is said that the social partners are allowed to implement it, but in the end it is the legislator's responsibility. That is also why the Commission has written to the government and complained that the directive is not being complied with. So would the Minister like to confirm that it is ultimately the responsibility of the Folketing and the government that the social partners comply with the directive?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173235	It is the responsibility of the Folketing that there is a basis for being able to comply with the directive. This means that, to the extent that there is an independent regulation in the legislation, we in the government and in the Folketing are responsible for the content of it. In addition, with our implementation methodology in Denmark, we are in the situation that a large part of the responsibility for EU regulation to be dealt with by law in Denmark is placed through the implementation legislation of the social partners, i.e. with the parties to the agreement. And if there are some of the parties to the agreement who believe that there is something in their agreements that is not in line with EU regulation, then there is a professional system through which they can take it up. That is precisely what is the main content of the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173334	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173336	I have to say that, unfortunately, this is a very creative interpretation of EU law. There is no doubt: it is the Danish Government, the Danish Parliament, who is responsible for complying with the directive in Denmark. It's as simple as that. That is why the Commission is writing to the government and complaining that there are some deviations from the directive in the form of a few hours limit, in the form that some people employed less than one month do not have full rights and in the form of an auxiliary law. So I would ask the Minister to go home to study and acknowledge that it is the Folketing and that if we adopt something here that we know is not being respected, then it is the Folketing and the government that have the problem with the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173423	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173425	The Folketing has neither a right of interpretation nor an obligation to interpret in relation to the content of the agreements in force in Denmark. There is a professional system for this, and if some people believe that their rights are not in order, then they must apply the professional system. On the other hand, we are obliged to ensure that directives are implemented in a lawful way so that they apply throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173454	The next brief remark is from Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173500	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. What I was just referring to was that the Minister said that the assessment is that under one month's employment does not require a legal basis. Can the Minister explain why one requires the other in relation to the European Commission's opinion? My second question is: has there been a dialogue with the European Commission on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173532	To that question, I can state that both the previous government and this government are of the opinion that there is no problem for the legislator here in relation to the legislation on fixed-term employment. So we do not think that we have any problem with either government or parliament; we do not think that there is anything here to come for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173557	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173558	The second question was: has there been a dialogue with the European Commission on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173609	Whether or not there has been a dialogue with the European Commission on the issue of autonomy, I cannot answer it here on a stand-by basis. I'd be happy to do it in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173611	The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173618	Thank you for the answer to the question I put to the Minister. I would like to see it clarified further, partly to ensure that I understand it correctly and partly to understand the Minister's considerations. I understand it in this way that the Minister believes that when we extend the agreement between the LO and the DA, it is less intrusive in the Danish model, because then it will not be the case that the Folketing directly determines by law what the conditions should be. And the Minister further said that the agreement between the LO and the DA actually merely contains the minimum requirements that the EU requires of us. But then I would like to know: why could we not just say by means of legislation that we are introducing exactly the minimum requirements that the EU directive requires of us? That would be less intrusive. Because we are now giving the LO and DA the rights to make further agreements. You have the right of interpretation and can negotiate further. Is there not some problem in that we are forcing that agreement down over the heads of some people who would normally not be covered by an agreement and perhaps would like to be free?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173722	No, it is our view that this is the least intrusive way of doing so, and that is because we in Denmark have a decentralised system of collective agreements and agreements which poses risks that there may be areas that are not caught up in the material regulations that are in the collective agreements. It is, of course, as it is in the ordinary area of pay, but it is not okay with the implementation of EU commitments. Therefore, in the LO-DA area, a basket has been created which increases the minimum rights and which is variable in the sense that the basket is valid if you are not caught by independent contractual obligations. And that's just the basket we're stretching out to the rest of the labour market. And if someone in the public sector here covers an area, yes, then you pull out of that basket and take over responsibility yourself. So this is the most considerate and respectful way we can do it in relation to the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173819	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173821	But the fundamental problem in relation to the Danish model is that the European Union, like the European Union, overrides it, because the European Union has actually made legislation that makes it impossible for conditions in the labour market to be free. It is not really a negotiation between employers and employees. It is actually dictated by the EU what the conditions should be, is it not? That's how I get it. Then the question is how to deal with it. I understand the charm of the model proposed by the Minister, but could the Minister also say a few words about the challenge of being actually pulled over the heads of some people who would otherwise be completely legally outside these terms of agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173904	We're not pulling anything on someone's head independently. What we ensure is that everyone in Denmark is covered by the minimum rights in the directive, and we do so in a way, so that if they want to be covered by an agreement and make an agreement, they lift themselves out of it independently. And then we ensure that we in the Folketing are not left with material interpretation responsibilities, but that it lies with the social partners where it belongs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173936	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. And we thank the Minister. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202173953	The debate is open, and that is the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202174028	Thank you. We have before us a motion for a resolution which is unusual in that it obliges the government to start something that we ourselves have initiated and, for the most part, has already come quite a long way. If you start by reading the government basis, you can be in no doubt that the ambition of the government in this area fully reflects the ambition of the Left and the other parties behind the paper 'Danish welfare in Europe'. If we have followed the current reports from the government's meetings on the matter in the European Union and with the governments of other countries, we can hardly doubt that the government's basis is being followed to the letter. I therefore think it is unusual for us in this Chamber today to discuss something that we basically agree with each other and that the government is already in full swing with. However, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to explain in more detail what the government has done and will do as a follow-up to the presentation on Danish welfare in Europe, to which reference is made in the motion for a resolution, and of course I will also listen attentively to any comments and comments that this may give rise to from the parties of the Folketing. First of all, we have made a special effort to influence the European Commission and other countries because there has been a good opportunity to do so. Firstly, we know that the European Commission will put forward a proposal to amend the EU rules on the coordination of social security benefits between Member States in the so-called Regulation No. 883. Secondly, the issue of access to welfare services is at the heart of negotiations with Britain on their future relationship with the European Union. I myself have had the opportunity to discuss the matter with the responsible EU Commissioner and a number of my fellow ministers, among others. from Sweden, France, Ireland, Austria and the United Kingdom, and several meetings are on the calendar. Similarly, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has raised the issue at relevant meetings in the EU and has met with his colleagues from among others. France and Great Britain. The Prime Minister has also raised the issue in connection with meetings with the Presidents of the EU institutions and at meetings with the Heads of Government from among others. Germany, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. In addition, there are a large number of permanent diplomatic contacts on the part of the civil service. The government and Denmark clearly support solutions that can gather support and that can help Britain remain in the EU. We have done this at relevant meetings in Brussels and in direct meetings with our British colleagues. I've got one of them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been to London and met with my British colleague, just as both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister have made the Danish support clear on several occasions. This applies not least to Britain's desire to limit the right to child support for residents abroad, where we in Denmark are fully in line with the UK, not only do we support Britain, but we also have it as our own Danish priority. That is why, of course, we have also used the alliance with Britain to actively promote our own cause. And I also refer to my answer to the Danish Parliament on the 20 question S 486. Another clear priority for the government is that it will be explicitly stated in the EU regulation that you have to work for a certain time before you obtain the right to benefit. Already today we are demanding 296 hours of work in Denmark before you can count your seniority from the former country of work to meet the Danish conditions for entitlement to benefit. In the past, however, doubts have been raised as to the compatibility of such a claim with EU legal obligations. This came out in a case that the European Commission raised with Finland, which is why we are working hard to ensure that the regulation is open to our national and perfectly reasonable demands. It is absolutely essential for the government to ensure that people go to other countries to work and not to receive benefits. But if you travel to work and you get a real job, it is also the government's view that you should have a safety net. So we do not want to fundamentally change the central principle of freedom of movement, but we want to adjust corners so that opportunistic behaviour is counteracted and freedom of movement does not lead to unreasonableness. In general terms, I also believe that both in the European Commission and in several countries there is more openness and sensitivity to discussing the inappropriateness of the existing rules than I have had the impression that there has been in the past. On the other hand, there are also several countries that have wishes that do not go in our direction. A proposal to amend Regulation 883 will also have to be approved by the European Parliament, and there is therefore no guarantee that we will get our wishes through. But overall, I believe that the government is already well under way with the three initiatives relating to the EU track: to bring together alliance partners, to support Britain and to work for a change in EU rules. When it comes to initiatives at national level, it was an independent theme for the benefit commission. In general, it was considered by the benefit commission that the Danish benefit system has so far proved robust in relation to the increasing internationalisation. At the same time, it is worth reminding you that, despite thorough analyses, the benefit commission has not been able to point to new specific regulatory changes targeted at EU citizens. Two initiatives in the resolution relate to the national level. As stated in the government's constitution, the government clearly wants to look at the possibility of adjusting national rules where possible. We already have the relevant knowledge to a large extent and can also rely on several previous analyses, statements and reports. It may make sense to summarise these studies and update them if new developments make it relevant or if new rules have come into being. Previous studies also include experience from selected countries, as well as experience from countries such as the United Kingdom. has been sent a reply to the Folketing with an overview of the rules in other countries in selected areas. According to the wording of the motion for a resolution, the government must begin implementation before the end of this parliamentary year. As I have explained here, we are already well under way with the initiatives and quite a long way in our work. So with that remark, the government has no problem with the content of the proposal. The government can therefore endorse the resolution and we look forward to contributing constructively to the committee's deliberations. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202174857	Thank you, and the first in the series of brief remarks is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202174905	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Minister for the statement. I would like to start by asking the Minister something. In the past, the Minister has problematized the fact that this is a very serious matter in relation to basic premises vis-à-vis the European Union, and here I am thinking of the Minister's statement that the concept of migrant workers should not be called into question. Today we are seeing Donald Tusk come out with a proposal that meets the British a very long way along the way in relation to the desire for a waiting period for social benefits for East Europeans and other EU wage earners coming to Britain, that is, this emergency brake that has been introduced. So I would really like to ask the Minister whether what Britain seems to be able to get out of it here, you might call it a debate with the EU system, is not exactly an opportunity to reconsider whether a more offensive line by the government in relation to these points was not the right way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175020	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175022	Where the limit has been set for the government to consider themes is by the Treaty. All the issues that need to be considered in order to meet the wishes of Denmark in relation to secondary legislation are open to us. But it is the government's view that it is not desirable for Denmark and is not helpful for anything to come up with proposals that imply the need for Treaty changes. That's one. The second is that, as we have been able to read in the press today, today is an interesting day in relation to the British situation, and there have been some announcements of what might be proposed by Donald Tusk in relation to Britain. Of course, we will also examine and assess the relevance of these in relation to an isolated Danish concern. However, we must just have the opportunity to judge the concrete content and also be able to relate it to Danish inclusion of interests and Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175142	Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175144	We can see that the content of a number of these points, as set out in the motion for a resolution, on which all four parties agreed before the parliamentary elections this summer, is precisely about the issue of transfer income and social benefits, and I would just like to ask the Minister whether he is of the opinion that Denmark is in a situation where we can actually use this emergency brake, that is to say the four-year waiting period which Donald Tusk is proposing to introduce. I think so, and I am convinced that quite a lot of others also think so, but I just want to hear the Minister's introductory remarks on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175224	Immediately, the emergency brake described is, of course, linked to some specific British circumstances. That's one. The second is that Denmark, as I have mentioned, is in a very good position to negotiate the Danish areas of interest, both in relation to the Commission and in relation to other countries with which we can seek to form alliances, and also in relation to Great Britain. There are many variables at the moment, and at least I do not have a standing basis here, we can say, on the basis of a press release, to take a position on what the emergency brake might actually mean for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175313	Someone else has asked for a brief comment. Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175318	Thank you, Minister, for your statement. I fully agree with the Minister that this is a rather strange resolution. I have to say frankly that I think it is even more strange that the government intends to vote in favour of it. And I think that because, although a large part of the specific content is something that the government has worked for, and for which the previous government has also worked, both in relation to child benefit and unemployment benefits etc., it is an expression of this, and it is also written in the motion for a resolution that Denmark should be moved in a more EU-sceptic direction. And there I just think that we usually feel this way in the Folketing, that it is 1) the government that conducts the empire's foreign policy, and 2) that the basic European policy we make in a broad cooperation. I cannot quite escape the feeling that right now the government is being dragged around the nose of its parliamentary basis, which wants to place Denmark in a completely different place in European politics than, at least, the Left Party has had a tradition of. And that is why I just want to make sure that this is not an expression of the fact that the Left Party agrees with the other three parties that Denmark must pursue a much more EU-sceptic policy in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175427	Everything the government has done has, of course, done on the basis of a clear mandate in relation to the European political majority, in other words in relation to the majority of the Folketing here. It's widely known. Everything the government has done is in line with what the Left, in conjunction with the other blue parties, said they would do, what is contained in the government basis, and what I have also explained here today. In my opinion, our work, in our statements, in our behaviour here in the Folketing is nothing new under the sun. On the other hand, there is a great deal of other news, because there are many positions that are moving and, as I indicated, I do believe that Denmark, with the current Commission and the negotiations that we have, has the basis for some optimism in dealing with a number of areas of interest which the majority of the Danish Parliament has wanted should be dealt with on the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175529	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175531	I therefore agree that the new Commission proposal opens up a number of possibilities, both in relation to the United Kingdom and to Denmark and the specific content of this. But what I am looking for is just to make sure that the government does not want, as the resolution says, to draw Danish European policy in a more EU-sceptic direction. I would just like a very clear answer as to whether it is government policy that you do not want to draw Denmark in a more EU-sceptic direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175606	EU-politically or EU-behaviorally, there is nothing new under the sun. What lies in the statement that I have made is confirmation that the government believes what the Left believed before the elections, which the government has stated in the government's constitution, and which can be derived from the behaviour we have had so far in relation to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175631	The next brief remark, Mr President. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175634	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I have to grieve my colleague from the Danish People's Party that there is not much meat on that emergency brake which lies in the draft agreement that has been reached today between Britain and Donald Tusk, but we can return to that. I'm also wondering, just like Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard, but perhaps at a slightly different stage, that the government can support this motion for a resolution when I hear the reasons given by the Minister, where, among other things, the Minister is speaking. We do not want to propose amendments to the Treaty. But by supporting this bill, the government will be obliged to make proposals for treaty changes. After all, it is clear that the EU rules on welfare services will have to be revised, and this must be done, among other things. The aim is to provide greater opportunities for making profit principles, to limit the export possibilities for welfare services and to allow welfare benefits to be indexed to the cost of living in the country in which the benefit is received. All three parts will require Treaty changes. Now it seems that the agreement that has been reached allows for the last point, but the other two things are not at all included in the agreement that has been reached on Great Britain and that is to be dealt with soon, so it will require the government to put forward proposals for changes to the Treaties in order to comply with the agreement that they are now going to vote for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175759	I do not agree with that. I myself am discussing a number of these issues with the Commission and with colleagues from other countries in Europe, and there is no and no wish at any time from any country or from Denmark for changes to the Treaties. It has been clear all along that the path we wanted to go was through secondary legislation, and I have not seen any barriers yet to finding satisfactory solutions for Denmark through secondary legislation. So what is politically determined, for example, is something else. in Parliament, and how much division or how much disagreement there is between the European countries, but that is the political game. I do not think we have any problems up here, either in terms of legislative structure or in relation to the Treaty. We do not want to open the Treaty on the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175857	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175900	Thank you. Then you just have to be honest and say that you will vote in favour of something that you know cannot be done, because the Treaty is very clear about the rights of migrant workers, namely that there must be no profit principles that ignore the periods that the worker in question has spent and worked in another EU country. It's just a little thing. Nor must restrictions be imposed on the export of welfare benefits to which the migrant worker concerned has first acquired the right in a country. He must then have the right to take it with him to the extent that it is an exportable service. The Treaty is crystal clear, so you just have to admit that you say yes to something that is hot air that cannot be implemented because you do not want to propose amendments to the Treaty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175946	That's sir. Finn Sørensen's interpretation. I attach more importance to the assessments made by the Commission and the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202175956	Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180000	Thank you. I have just one clarification question or perhaps more of the Minister's position or analysis, if you will. The Minister says, on the one hand, that, since the government was taken over this summer, we have done what we could to pursue the tracks laid out in the paper 'Danish welfare in Europe', etc., but yet, on the other hand, we must discuss this motion for a resolution today by the parties, which forms the parliamentary basis of the government. Can the Minister not tell us why he believes that there is a lack of confidence on the part of the support parties in whether the government is actually pursuing the objectives set out in this joint proposal or what is going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180045	I am not the right person to be asked that, but to the extent that there is a desire on the part of the other blue parties to test whether the government is on the track that the Left indicated we were on before the elections, we are completely open to being tested. That is also why it is difficult for us to do anything other than vote in favour of the resolution, because it is in full agreement with what we have said we would do before the elections, what we have done since the government was formed, and what we think is still right to do in relation to the open positions that are in Europe just these months. What's going on is quite, quite exciting. After all, opportunities are being opened up in the area that many two or three years ago would have thought to be completely unthinkable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180141	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180143	Thank you. The reason why I am asking is that we are led to believe that this motion for a resolution is either a lack of dialogue between the government and its parties to support European policy, or that it reflects a lack of confidence that the government will actually pursue these objectives. I understand from the Minister that it is not. Nevertheless, would the Minister agree with me that the motion for a resolution, if nothing else, is also an expression of some kind of re-orientation of Danish EU policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180220	No. As I said, there's no new orientation in this. A resolution has been tabled which is fully in line with what the Left thought before the elections, what lies in our government basis and what has been the basis for our actions ever since. I have no objection to this being tested either in the Committee on European Affairs or here in the Folketing or in public as such. This is what we've said we'd do; that's what we're doing; that's what we think is quite right to do. And as mentioned, we believe that there are better opportunities to achieve Denmark's goals in these very months than there have been for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180303	Thank you. Those were the brief comments to the Minister. We shall now turn to the rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180322	Thank you. We, like everyone else, have also read this resolution with great interest and have tried to get an overview of what this is really about. It is, of course, a rather special situation, as the Minister said, and also from our point of view, that we should be discussing a motion for a resolution which we are led to believe is based on some form of disagreement or distrust between the government's support parties and the government. I guess that's the way it is. We are, of course, in favour of this as well, both before, but especially after the vote on the legal relationship, to discuss and also to have clear rules on income principles and on access to welfare benefits for other EU citizens around. That is also what we have noted today, with Donald Tusk's proposal for a compromise with the United Kingdom, and we look at this very, very positively. We would also very much like to have a major debate on this, both within the Committee on European Affairs and in the Danish Parliament, and it is based on the need, in one way or another, to provide information on the Danish approach to some of these issues. On the other hand, we believe that in this motion for a resolution there is an untimely and perhaps even suspended interference in the negotiations on the compromise that is being sought with Britain. We see no reason why the Danish Parliament must express its support for this or that we should interfere in it at all. Last but not least, I come now to where we stand in relation to this motion for a resolution. Although we are positive about the individual elements that are about profit principles and clear rules on access to welfare services, we therefore have a problem with the process in relation to this motion for a resolution. After all, we have a tradition that it is the Folketing and the parties of the Folketing that have a tradition of uniting on EU policy which also sets the course. We can do this to this extent in discussions in this Chamber, but there must also be a slightly broader discussion and a slightly longer process if it is that we need to reorientate our approach to EU policy, and that is why we are inclined to vote against this proposal and to vote blankly. I shall return in the committee debate to where we are going in connection with this. At the same time, on behalf of Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and SF promised to announce that SF is voting against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180612	We have some brief comments and the first is from Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180620	I have to say that I am a little bit surprised by the rapporteur's expression of the Social Democratic vote on this matter. In other words, I cannot really see it in any other way than the fact that the rapporteur, on behalf of his party, has been so offended by the fact that we are even discussing it here in Parliament. This is something that has to be done like this behind the roll-down curtains in the gedulge, where you have to make these fine deals and stuff. But that is why I have to deal with the question. Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who is the rapporteur's chairman, said to Jyllands-Posten on 26 September: 'Although we are in favour of freedom of movement, we are not in favour of getting across the Danish border and gaining access to our services immediately. This is of course particularly important in Denmark, where we have a social model based on you having to contribute over a lifetime. She goes on to say that the Socialists are therefore not in favour of the European Union as a social union. What has changed since September 26th? Why don't you vote for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180725	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180727	Well, if sir... Kenneth Kristensen Berth heard my remarks in the rapporteur's speech, so what I said was quite what Mrs Mette Frederiksen said in the quotation that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth read out that we have no distress whatsoever in supporting the need for clear rules on access to welfare benefits for other EU citizens. I also said in the rapporteur's speech that we so much welcome Donald Tusk's compromise proposal to Britain, but that we read this motion for a resolution as something broader and as perhaps/maybe nothing that also has greater consequences. We therefore need a greater debate between the parties in order simply to find out than just the resolution on today's agenda on the basis of a presentation made by the bourgeois parties together just before the election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180820	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180823	It may be that I am very old-fashioned, but I actually thought that we should have such debates in the Parliamentary Chamber and not at some meeting behind rolled curtains. I have to say that I believe that, Mr President. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen is out in now, is finding a fig leaf that can enable him to abstain from voting or vote against it here. Because if you read what the British agreement says, you will see that it is quite quiet and quiet. I think the Social Democratic Party and Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen has become really, really old-fashioned girl insulted by this. I think you should do what your President is going to do and vote for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180858	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180900	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180904	The next brief remark is from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180910	Thank you. I find it very difficult to find out what the rapporteur really thinks. He wants clear rules, and we all want clear rules. What are they gonna do? What is the position of the Socialists? So I have to ask you more directly. When the rapporteur speaks of profit principles, is it in that the Socialists have now come to the view that foreign workers will be restricted to social benefits in Denmark in such a way that they will only be able to obtain this after x number of years of employment or stay in this country? Is that what the rapporteur thinks?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180949	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202180953	What I mean is that right now we are trying to figure out exactly what this is gonna look like in the future, and there we are looking really, really, very carefully at what Donald Tusk is up to in the compromise that has been proposed to Britain. Yes, we are of the opinion that it should not be possible in any way, whether it is migrant workers or others, to make use of the high level of welfare benefits that we have in Denmark. This does not mean that we want to have a general restriction on other EU citizens to have access to our services, but that it must be, as is suggested, for example, in the compromise proposal we have seen today, possibly indexing child benefits, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181039	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181041	An indexing of child benefit is not a restriction on the right to receive it. It is a question of how to calculate it for certain workers. But I understand that there is a clear answer: the Socialists have now come to the view that in some way we cannot really know how to restrict migrant workers' access to welfare services in Denmark. So I just have to ask: what has led the Socialists to take that position, because in the last parliamentary term we had a fierce fight for children's checks and family allowances, in which the Socialists, together with the Enhedslisten, clearly opposed the attempts of the bourgeois to restrict the access of migrant workers to children's checks? The Enhedslisten then had a different view, which was that it should not be exportable, but we agreed that they should be entitled to it from day one. What happened, and is that wise? What is the consequence of the fact that foreign workers do not have the same rights as Danish workers? It is, of course, that they are much more susceptible to social dumping. So is it at all a wise stand to take?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181144	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181147	Well, that is what we are, and that is also why I am standing today and not going beyond the fact that we want clear rules and, as such, also want to have a clear discussion about the access of other EU citizens to welfare services can be so concrete yet. Because it is a discussion that we have only just started internally about who should have access to what when and how. What has happened, on the other hand, is that reality is constantly changing and that a party such as the Social Democratic Party is also guided by new leadership and new people are elected on behalf of the party and so on. Yes, sir, I agree with you. Finn Sørensen said that a general restriction on workers could also lead to social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181236	The next brief remark is from Mr. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181240	Thank you. Now it's not very often that I agree with Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen or Mr. Sørensen. Kenneth Kristensen Berth on this issue, but I was also somewhat provoked by the Social Democrat rapporteur here. I am simply curious to find out what it is actually quite concrete in this text, for which we will not be able to vote. There are some things that are mentioned that you are in favour of discussing these things, that you are very excited about Tusk's latest proposal, and that you are in favour of a new orientation of a Danish approach to this. Then I'm going to deal with another thing that puzzled me a little bit. Well, what exactly is it about this British thing, when you're a big believer in what's going on these days you're having trouble with? The rapporteur said something in the sense of saying that it was an untimely and extinct interference, but what it says here is that we must support the efforts of the British Government. Well, what is so terribly provocative about it that you cannot vote for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181331	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181334	Well, I don't know if there's anything so horribly provocative about it. In other words, we have just expressed our doubts as to what the real motive behind this motion for a resolution is. This shows that there is a greater disagreement between the governing parties. And why do we in the Parliamentary Assembly have to take a position to implement the initiatives agreed upon by the bourgeois parties? And then we think that there should also be a major debate on the line to be taken in Danish EU policy in terms of procedure and tradition between parties. Then I do not think there is any reason at all to say anything on the part of the Danish Parliament right now about the British debate with the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181416	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181418	I'm sorry, I just don't think that's connected. I understand that a debate is being called for, but we cannot take it now. When, then, will it be appropriate to take that debate? Nor do I believe that our door has been closed in relation to taking that debate if it was. But we have seen that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has, from day one, been motivated to find out that there were problems in this, even though I find it difficult to see what could be of difficulty in agreeing on this for once. I simply do not think that explanation is connected, and I have to go back to the question of what it is in the text here, where you cannot be in it. Can the rapporteur point out just one thing where they say: we simply cannot be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181457	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181459	Well, it is for exactly the same reason that I said that there are several different elements, but that we would like to be involved in discussing and I am doing so now, as I have just done with Mr. Finn Sørensen has access to welfare benefits. At the same time, however, we are not necessarily prepared to say that we are voting in favour of this resolution. That is why I proposed that either we vote against or we vote blankly. We also believe that there should be a wider debate among the parties that usually define Danish EU policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181527	The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181533	Thank you. I got it, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen said that it was only the process with which the Socialists disagreed, but otherwise the resolution was supported. If that is true and I would like to ask whether it is understood correctly then it looks like a rapporteur who is just looking for an excuse to vote against an otherwise reasonable motion for a resolution, in which it is possible to agree on all the points contained in it, but just does not like to vote for it because it comes from the other side of the House. I think that is a pity, because this is something that the Socialists should support so much, namely the welfare state. For welfare states will collapse if we do not get something done about the fact that social clients can travel around and thus put enormous pressure on welfare systems around Europe. This inevitably leads to a race to the bottom, because we have to lower standards of how we treat people in the countries of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181628	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181630	First of all, I welcome the support of the Conservatives and what can we say? I think this is very, very commendable, and so much we need it. The reason why we alternate between voting blankly for this or voting against it is, of course, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard also said before that there is a tradition that the government conducts the Danish foreign policy and that it is the Folketing that determines EU policy. And we do not think that this has been the subject of enough debate if it is not the expression of some kind of re-direction, but we are also not prepared to say exactly what it is for some different groups of EU citizens and benefits, which it is, if need be, to be tampered with. That is quite simply what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181725	Sir. Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181728	I am surprised, though, that the Socialists must be so hesitant about striking at a proposal which is so clearly fleeing with what should be social democratic policy. So, as a Social Democrat, we should really seize this and say: yes, we agree that we need to have some profit principles. It cannot be the case that people can come from other European countries and from day to day a right to full Danish welfare benefits. Because if that is the case, then people are going to go where welfare benefits are most generous, and then no country can afford to be the most generous. So if you're a Social Democrat and it has nothing to do with conservative politics, then you have to back this up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181816	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181818	As I said precisely in my rapporteur's speech, we fully agree that there has to be clear rules on who and how and how and how much you have access to welfare services, especially in those countries in Europe where it is that you have more generous welfare benefits than elsewhere. So we do not disagree with the substance of the issue of welfare benefits and income principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181843	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181854	Thank you very much. Can the rapporteur himself not hear that it just sounds a little strange that the rapporteur's own President says that the European Union should not be a social union, and that the platform here indicates that one agrees with all of this resolution, but that one nevertheless wants to vote against it, or at least is considering voting against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181910	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181912	No, I do not think I can hear myself that this does not make sense, because everything Mrs Mette Frederiksen says in the quote that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth read out, is absolutely right and is an expression of the attitude of the Social Democrats and also of my own position. But the fact is that what we are discussing here is a parliamentary decision on the basis of a paper written by the bourgeois parties before the elections, and that the Danish People's Party and a number of other parties have now become in doubt as to whether the government actually intends to implement it. We are a little incomprehensible, firstly, about why the rest of the parliamentary parties should be involved in this, and secondly, because we basically also believe that if we are to have a greater discussion on profit principles and access to welfare services, this should also be done wider.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202181959	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182002	Does the rapporteur at least agree that we should have a more sceptical approach towards the European Union when we look at the outcome of the last vote we had, namely the one on the legal reservation, where there was a very clear signal from the electorate? Or do you not care about the signal the voters sent in that election?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182021	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182023	No, the Social Democrats are not at all indifferent to the signal sent by the electorate, and that is also why we have entered into the discussions on what should now happen after the 'no' vote on the lifting of the reservation of law and what should then be included in a possible parallel agreement with the European Union. We take it very seriously, very seriously, and we are not in favour of creating a large package in which we put everything into it, despite the fact that the voters have just voted 'no'. So yes, we take it seriously when the Danes say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182054	The penultimate short remark we make to Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182104	Thank you. I must be quite sure that I understand the rapporteur's message quite correctly. Is it true that the rapporteur agrees entirely with all the political substance of this proposal, but does not want to support it alone, because one is a little sad that we have the debate on it quite openly here in the Parliamentary Assembly?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182130	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182132	1) I am not sorry that we have the debate in the Chamber. I think this is a quite excellent debate. Hopefully that's the first of many on this question. 2) I'm not sorry either because of anything. 3) I have just wanted, in a way, that if it is that we are about to be there, where we also have to reorientate the Danish EU policy in all sorts of different directions, then it should also happen wider and, in particular, after a major discussion between the parties that normally define Danish EU policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182208	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182210	Thank you. Of course, when I asked, as I did, it was because the rapporteur, in his rapporteur's speech, expressed a consensus on the political substance of the resolution and then turned against it with some arguments about the process. So I would like to ask in another way: 1) Will the rapporteur confirm that the rapporteur did not in the first answer agree with the political substance, in other words the whole political substance of the proposal, and 2) is the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party prepared to debate EU policy in a completely new way in principle than the way we usually do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182246	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182249	1) Yes. The Social Democratic Party agrees that there must be clear rules for both income and access to various forms of welfare services. 2) The reason, and I'm not sure I got the answer, Mr. Morten Løkkegaard on just before is that we do not see ourselves either ready or interested in interfering directly here from the Danish Parliament in a purely British discussion that is going on right now. 3) We also believe that there should be a greater fundamental discussion about our relationship with the European Union and, in particular, a qualified debate about the content of EU policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182322	We will take another brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182327	Thank you, President. Now I have first heard this in my office, and then I simply had to hurry up in the Chamber, because I thought it was a strange talk from the Socialist rapporteur. So he is really opening the ballet in the debate on this motion for a resolution by saying that either you will abstain or you will vote against a motion for a resolution which, on all sides, will try to take account of some of the challenges facing the Danish welfare community. So if we are to safeguard the Danish welfare society in the EU we know, we need to take initiatives. It is true that it is not the Social Democracy that has taken the lead in that fight. It is a number of other parties that have agreed on an election campaign on how to ensure the Danish welfare society in the EU in the future. So says Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen says that if we are to rethink Danish EU policy in all directions, then it must happen between the parties that normally make EU policy. Is it essential for social democracy that this should be done between the parties that normally make EU policy? Should it not be the content that is crucial, and not who makes the policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182431	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182433	I can confirm the questioner that it is, of course, the content that matters. And I can also tell the questioner that the Social Democratic Party is very much interested in ensuring that the Danish welfare model is linked to the different principles both for migrant workers and for other EU citizens' access to welfare benefits in Denmark. That is why, even while we were in government, we were at the forefront of a wide range of different initiatives, together with, among others, a wide range of initiatives. Unity list and other supporting parties to limit social dumping. So we're not even worried about discussing these things or messing with these things. We just think this is going to fail in a way, so we haven't had a chance to find out exactly what is up and down, and we've had a hard time researching what the motives are actually from the different parties. Nor have we heard from the government what you think you have not implemented, or can implement in the plan you have made together with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182529	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182531	Now I understand that it is the content that is crucial and not who does it. It used to be crucial who made it. That is when the rapporteur said that it should be made between the parties that normally make EU policy. Now I am glad that we have received an answer that it is, however, the content that is crucial. But now it is not the content, because it is the motives for the content. Well, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen doesn't even hear that this isn't gonna work? Can't he answer? There are six points, six different initiatives in this resolution. - Sir... Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen not here at the end of his round here just give an example of something of substance that is problematic from the point of view of Social Democracy, in this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182609	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182611	I did so in my rapporteur's speech. It was, of course, among other things that we do not like and cannot simply support the fact that we in the Danish Parliament are interfering in or expressing some kind of support for the British negotiation process right now with the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182626	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Morten Løkkegaard for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202182648	Thank you for that, President. It is hardly surprising that I and we in the Left fully agree with the Minister's remarks and points here today. When you look at this motion for a resolution, you may well be caught by a mild surprise. Don't get me wrong, I don't see any reason to blame anyone for being eager and impatient. The proposers would very much like to see rapid results on the issue of pressure on the Danish welfare services of Europe's migrant workers. It's okay. Now, I think, the Minister has explained quite well that the government has certainly not been on the slow side when it comes to searching this terrain to see what can be adjusted. The priorities set out in the paper "Danish welfare in Europe" will be delivered. In other words, as far as we see it, it is a kick to the famous open door, and of course it does not hurt. This then gives a good opportunity to stress once again the position of the Left on the issue of welfare benefits and migrant workers. This is an extremely important issue, and we welcome any debate. First of all, it is important to stress that this whole discussion is, to that extent, a source of enormous success. The free movement of goods and services, capital and people within the single market has enabled generations to travel, study, settle and take up work in another country and have created great benefits and wealth in Denmark. For the Left, freedom of movement is at the heart of the whole project and, of course, we will not fundamentally change that. However, with success, new challenges have arisen, because our welfare societies are very differently linked together in the European Union. Unlike many other EU Member States, we have created a very generous universal welfare system in which we pay for solidarity over the tax ticket. It is time for us to have the debate on what, when and how we are entitled to social benefits as outsiders. When travelling EU citizens, supported by unclear rules and a very active EU Court of Justice, can draw on Danish tax-financed services after a short stay in this country and quite a few hours on the labour market, then of course it puts our system under pressure. Well, that's self-evident, isn't it? In reality, as we see it, it is not a question of money. It is easy to argue that the Danes also benefit from this system. There are plenty of Danes working abroad. One might also say that for example. foreign labour from Eastern Europe is an economic advantage for Denmark, so as we see it, it is not an economic discussion. It is a question of principles; it is a question of fairness. In Denmark there must be a balance between providing and enjoying. After a few hours of work, there is no point in withdrawing a child's check from Denmark, which in Romania is a fortune. It just doesn't make sense. And if the Danes are to feel that the EU is a system of meaning, we as politicians need to adjust this system. Even if the figures are not alarming. However, they are steadily increasing, as you see, if you look at the statistics, and it is therefore a matter of due diligence to get adjusted now. For the Left, the matter is clear: the European Union was never meant to be a social union. For this, our systems and traditions are simply too different. When the British kick-started the debate a few years ago, it was, we thought, a good opportunity to have the debate taken and put pressure on for the necessary changes. So do we agree with the British on everything? No, of course we're not. There are other partners we are talking about in this matter as well, but in the debate on the motives of the government and the Left in this matter it is as if the opposition is overlooking a different and at least equally important perspective, namely that the important negotiations currently taking place in London, Berlin, Paris and Brussels are not just about welfare services. They are about Britain's continued membership of the European Union and, in the end, about the fate of the whole of the European Union and, therefore, about our destiny. That is why we in the Left are very concerned to follow our British friends closely and to provide the support we can to ensure that the British vote 'yes' in the referendum that is coming shortly. As I said, work is being done right now at all levels to deliver that agenda. We've heard the government does. This is done in the ministries, it is done among diplomats, in the capitals, in Brussels, and also in the European Parliament, pushing the Left to get the issue on the agenda and with some success. The debate has moved significantly from vertical resistance to different degrees of acceptance over the past few years. We are therefore pleased that the authors of today's motion for a resolution, despite impatience, recognise that we are in the process and we can readily endorse the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183120	There are, in fact, a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183129	Thank you very much. I'm wondering a little bit. The Minister and the rapporteur of the Left are talking about what is quite right, namely that we are already working on everything in the motion for a resolution. We did so, in fact, a very long way along the way in the previous government, and on some stretches we are actually going in the right direction with the new Commission proposal. That is why the only difference, and I hear the rapporteur of the Left, between the policy pursued by the government and this motion for a resolution is the signal value. The signal value is described in the motion for a resolution as'and I quote: 'with the aim of signalling a more EU-sceptic line'. That is the purpose of this resolution, no more and no less, because the policy is already being pursued. So that is the signal to which we are voting 'yes' or 'no' when we are voting on this resolution, and that is why I am a little concerned that the Left is going to vote 'yes' to it. It is not because of the content, because it is not so much new in it, but because of the signal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183231	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183234	Now we are already in the process of discussing the right of interpretation, and I understand that very well, because any text does provide for interpretations. Sir. After all, Martin Lidegaard has once or twice raised the question of whether this is EU skeptical or not, and that is not because I am going to disclaim some responsibility for what is going on, but I have just not been involved in the actual drafting of this text, and I would say that I personally would have preferred the word realistically rather than skeptical. However, I consider this to be a compromise text in which it can be read in full as you like. I read it into it that it is an expression of realism, perhaps even a renalism. If you look at the events that are taking place right now, I also believe that the Commission will be prepared to sign that interpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183315	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183317	That was an answer which reassured me on the one hand and caused a new concern. I am reassured that these are not the proposals of the Left and that they do not intend to move towards a more EU-sceptic line. This means, of course, that the Left is being dragged around by its parliamentary foundations, by three parties which are certainly, and I think I dare say that without putting any particular interpretation down on it, are considerably more EU-sceptic than the Left itself is. I would like the rapporteur of the Left to confirm that it is indeed the case that the Left is a more EU-friendly party than the three authors of the motion, but that it is nevertheless intended to vote in favour of it here, even though it says in the proposal that it is in order to signal a more EU-sceptic line.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183402	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183404	After all, it is not my job to distribute grades to the individual parties for their efforts in connection with such a joint proposal. I can just say that in the Left we do not consider ourselves to be EU skeptical. We consider ourselves to be EU-realistic. And that is a very important distinction. Is this the expression of a compromise text in which we can generally see ourselves? I can confirm that. This does not mean that we are being dragged around by the nose, at all. I even think there are people who could say that we have written most of this text.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183435	The next brief remark is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183439	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for reaffirming the agreement that we also thought we had before the parliamentary elections. Then I would say that the Minister was told that the Minister did not think that there was anything new under the sun in this. It really depends a little on how far back in time you go, because I remember then, sir. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen approached Mr. Uffe Ellemann-Jensen and said: there is too much EU on your socks or how it was on TV. Today, I just have to say that it seems that those EU socks have been taken over by Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, while Mr. Morten Løkkegaard has put on the robe of realism. That is why I should like to ask the rapporteur about the Europe Agreement. In other words, is there really no need for us to look at whether other parties can be involved in a new Europe agreement, a new European political agreement, which can then have a slightly broader foundation in the population as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183543	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183545	The Left is firmly committed to the Europe agreement that is before us, which we have supported over all the years and advocated. If you look at the elements, that is to say, the concrete policy, the substance, then I would be very pleased personally if parties which have not been able to see themselves in the current European political agreement offered up for dancing it would be a great pleasure to me. In fact, I share the premise that we are developing rapidly in the European project and that the challenges, if I may say so, are rising up so that a new dialogue is needed. We are totally in favour of the European political agreement, and I have also signalled where the Left is in it, but we would be very, very happy if some people were to offer dance on the basis of the main principles of the European political agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183635	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183638	I think it is interesting because that Europe agreement states that Denmark must be part of the core of Europe. I think that when we take note of the legal reservation, when we take note of what we are discussing today, when we take note of the growing scepticism about EMU, we take note of a scepticism which I also think I can find in the back of the Left, the question is not really whether we are going to discuss it with the heart, i.e. whether it really is something else, and whether we should not really change Danish European policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183714	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183715	I hope that everyone who listened to my speech here realized that the Left knows where it is in European policy. We're standing where we've been all along. But that is true and I also believe that the Prime Minister has said it very elegantly that the core is moving. That, of course, is our challenge, and that is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth also mentioned. If there is always a dynamic development in which we can see that the core is moving somewhere, we can see that only today, with the proposal from the President of the European Union, from Donald Tusk and therefore also from the Commission, we must, of course, focus on the fact that the core can be somewhere else. I'll give you that. That is what I mean by giving rise to constant consideration of how it is related to one's core values, if I may say so, from home. And then I would like to say that I am somewhat disappointed that the opposition in this matter is not wearing the robe of realism, as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth talks about as if it were a liability. I don't think it's a liability I think it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183812	Then there is a new brief remark from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183818	Thank you. It is exciting to see how a little bit of crab is being carried around the European political landscape by several rapporteurs. I'd like to get a little more into the substance. The Enhedslisten agrees with the rapporteur that, as a general rule, the children's cheque should not be able to be sent out of the country. In fact, it is in the law that was adopted at the time, and it still stands. That is, in fact, a right principle. But then we could just work together to change it. But what this resolution is based on, and what the rapporteur is advocating, goes much further. After all, this is a general restriction on the right of foreign workers to welfare benefits. Then the rapporteur says it is reasonable. So I ask, is that fair? In other words, we demand foreign workers to pay taxes from day one, but they must not have the same rights as other taxpayers. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183919	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202183921	Now I think that Mr. Finn Sørensen mixes several different things together. I mean, just to make it clear: we do not agree that children's checks cannot be conducted out of the country. We agree that it should be indexed and that there must be reasonableness in what can be taken out, if I may say so, in relation to the costs in the country in which the child lives. I think that is quite a significant detail. This is linked again to the next question I would like to answer, namely: for us in the Left, it is extremely important not to tamper with the fundamentals of freedom of movement and to respect the treaties which 28 countries have solemnly signed and which in some way protect the rights which Mr. Finn Sørensen is referring to. In connection with what is happening now, you go in and look at a few things, for example. the obvious absurdity that it is possible to bring a huge children's check from Denmark to Romania. It's screaming to heaven. The fact that we are going into the concrete field and working on it within the framework of the Treaty is, I think, gratifying. That is one of the positive news I have seen today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202184021	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202184023	Then we have to rewind the discussions on the children's check that we had in 2014. Then I think we can find several quotes where the Left believed that it should not be possible to send the children's cheque out of the country. But back to content: We demand from foreign workers who come here to the country that from day one they must comply with all laws and regulations in Denmark, including that they have to pay taxes. Is it reasonable to say to them: then can you not have access to the same social benefits as other taxpayers in this country? Is that fair and reasonable? Because that will mean, if things get worse, that we will have a very large group of foreign workers who do not have the same social security as other people who work in this country. Is that wise?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202184114	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202184117	As a starting point, I fully agree with the principle that people should be treated in the same way as migrant workers. We in the Left agree entirely with that. But, as I say, when you have a system that has obviously not been followed over time, has not followed the development that is the result of the success of the internal market with free movement and, in addition, has a Court of Justice, a very activitic court which fills out the unclear gaps that exist in the rules today, and thus assumes the right of interpretation on it without us politicians being involved, I think there is reason to shout guard in the rifle. I think that is a perfectly reasonable criticism. It is a reasonable debate to take, and it is reasonable to take actions which, if I may say so, are at the heart of fairness. It is not a question of not giving people their rights. But I hope that Mr. Finn Sørensen, for example. In relation to the children's check, just to take the specific example, I would agree that this is not something that in any way creates unreasonableness. On the contrary. I think most people will be able to sign that. So we agree with the principle that people should be treated equally, but we also agree that there must be a realism, a renalism in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202184223	The last brief remark in this round is from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202184232	I would like to hear the position of the Left on Britain's negotiations at the moment. On the conservative side, we are very much in agreement with the demands made by Cameron. We would also like the Left, and hence the government, to support the European Union in ensuring that Britain has its demands met. So I'd like to hear from mr. Morten Løkkegaard, whether that will be the case or whether there are some points where the Left thinks that we cannot accommodate Britain here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202184300	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202184302	Now, unfortunately, this debate is often associated with a number of ambiguities. If you ask as broadly as the questioner here does, whether we in the Left generally agree with the demands of Britain, then I think you have to be more specific. We in the Left have put ourselves behind Britain's demands in the sense that we support the desire for Britain to be brought into a situation where they do not go out of the European Union in a referendum. What does that mean in practice? Yes, of course that means that the debate that is currently running and has been running for some time will end successfully. What does that mean? Yeah, that means you can meet somewhere. Does this mean that we are nodding everything that Britain demands? No, it doesn't. But if there is something concrete in Danish interest, for example. in the case of the children's check here and the indexing, which we have been fighting for too long, yes, then we wholeheartedly support it. We must look at the rest, as the Minister has also mentioned, and look into it. But it's not the case that a blank cheque has been issued to the British on this. But we will certainly very, very much not end up in the strategically exceptionally disadvantageous position that we have been involved in, helping to get the British out of the European Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202184409	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202184411	Well, I'd like to be more specific. It was not so much whether we want to keep Britain in the EU, but it was more about the substance of the demands made by Britain. We can, of course, just take the most important of those who are here about the principles of profit, in other words that Britain will have the right to refuse to pay benefits to other EU citizens in order to prevent social clients from travelling around, depending on where the benefits are best. Is that something that the Left will support?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202184439	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202184441	Once again, we have nothing against profit principles in principle, and we already pay tribute to them in certain parts of Danish legislation in this area. When it comes to the question of the specific emergency brake proposal, if that is what is referred to, it is too early, I think to say something concrete about it. I note when I read the text today that it is, if I may say so, designed for the British and their special situation. There is direct linguistic reference to the special social benefits which are a problem for Cameron and his government. So there is a lot of lip service, if I may say so, to the British in what lies there. It may be difficult in the first place to relate to it as a Dane, but let us now look at it, and let the Minister and the lawyers have the opportunity to look at it, and let us have a political debate on it in each of the groups before we deal with it. It's not serious of me to stand here handing out grades to that part right now. We support the issue of indexing child cheques.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202184531	There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. Thank you. Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202184559	Thank you. We do not think that this is a good proposal as a whole and we cannot support it for reasons which will emerge. But we think it is good that it is being put forward so that we have this discussion and also so that we have the opportunity to draw up the fronts in relation to the various points it contains. The Enhedslisten is clearly opposed to introducing profit principles for welfare services. We regard this as an attempt to undermine the principles of our tax-financed welfare system, which is based on the fact that all taxpayers have the right to the welfare benefits they can obtain for their tax payments. We regard it as discrimination against Danish and foreign workers because it also affects Danish companies who pay taxes in this country if they introduce profit principles which mean that they do not have the same rights to welfare benefits as other taxpayers. It is discrimination based on an unpleasant myth that the foreign workers who come to this country come to put their trunks into our public purses and so-called welfare tourism. But there's no evidence of that suspicion. There's no evidence of what it's called in Nudansk. Foreigners come here to work and not to cheat. No, we do not have problems with welfare tourism, but we have problems with social dumping, and if you want to stem it, then it is quite the wrong way to go about introducing profit principles. Denmark does not need thousands of foreign workers to be in this country without having the same social protection as Danish workers. This will only make them even more vulnerable and susceptible to taking any job at any salary. It will only give the race towards the bottom of pay and working conditions another turning point. We must ensure that the foreign workers who are in this country work on equal terms, and we have a large number of proposals on this from the Enhedslisten: chain liability, work clauses and a proposal on work permits, to which I shall return. We agree that the Member States must decide their own policies to a greater extent. That is why we also support the fact that the European Union should not be able to force countries to export welfare services. As we have stated many times in the discussion on children's cheques and family allowances, we believe that we must enforce what has always been in that law, and the main rule is that it is clear that benefits are paid to children staying in this country. This is a reasonable principle and it prevents the benefits from being used or abused by greedy employers as an argument for paying lower wages to foreign workers. If the bourgeois parties had wanted to, we could have had a dispute with the EU about it in 2014, when Enhedslisten put forward his bill on children's checks and family allowances, but the bourgeois did not dare. As far as cash benefits are concerned, it is not a universal welfare benefit. It's a collective insurance scheme. Here, too, we believe that foreign and Danish workers should have the same duties and therefore the same rights. They must follow the rules in force, even though the rules in force are far too strict, in order to earn the right to benefit. We propose that the length of the entitlement to benefit be reduced to three months' work and three months' membership of the fund. We can do this without asking the European Union, and then we will have equality on that point. Of course, we cannot support a demand that the European Union should not develop into a social union. We don't believe it can be done. After all, capital and the rights of the market economy are too firmly established in the Treaty, and it is the case that one country can block it. But we support minimum working conditions and other protection measures for employees as long as they do not interfere with collective agreements. We support the demands of the European trade union movement to amend the Posting of Workers Directive and a social protocol to ensure that professional and social rights are overarching economic freedoms, that is, the rules on free movement. Then we will have the Court of Justice's intervention in conflict law rectified. Compared with the foreign workers, the bourgeois would rather support Enhedslisten's proposal than talk about profit principles. We propose that if foreigners want to work in this country, they will require a work permit which can only be obtained if there is a contract of employment approved by the trade union which has the agreement for the work in question. It is a very simple way of restricting social dumping. But here too, the EU rules stand in the way, and then we have to say that if you are unhappy that the EU is deciding on the rules for our welfare services, then there is good reason to support the Enhedslisten's proposal for a fifth reservation, a fifth exception, so that it is established that those rules are our own rules. After all, all the 'yes' parties should support that, because they promised us that at the time when we were going to vote on membership and many times ago. Those promises just didn't keep. It was the opposite that happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185059	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185103	I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Finn Sørensen forever like that, you might say, to get to grips with an ideological starting point and talk about greedy employers and things like that. This is the kind of thing that brings me back to the 1970s with dull gray clothes and sympathy for the GDR and something like that. I do not know whether the word can be used refreshingly, but it is certainly very interesting to hear it in the Chamber. What I really just want to ask the rapporteur is whether the Enhedslisten recognises the principle that money must be put in the box before it can be used, because when we listen to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur here and in other contexts, it sounds as if we do not recognise that principle. You have to be able to come and then from day one can be allowed to demand from the store Denmark without paying anything in, and then you can, by the way, retreat and come back and claim from day one. Does Enhedslisten accept the principle that money is needed before you can use it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185205	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185207	First of all, if you look at the figures we know so far, there are no economic problems in this. This has been documented in the discussions on children's checks and a thorough investigation by the former Minister for Employment. Secondly, it is not right to say that they are not paying anything in. The foreign workers who work in this country and who are employed by a Danish company pay taxes, and that should then also mean that they had the same rights as other taxpayers. It's as simple as that. After all, it is a question of rights and discrimination and fairness. Then I think that the Danish People's Party, which prides itself on the fact that they want to combat social dumping, should deal with the problem that if we get a large number of workers in this country who are not covered, socially guaranteed in the same way as all those who live here, then we get social dumping, so it will something. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185304	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185307	I just have to say that I still find it strange that the Enhedslisten, which is a party which I think is still to some extent EU skeptical, may seem sympathetic to the fact that you can come to Denmark and get SU if you only work 10 hours a week and that you are entitled to child benefit at 9 hours of work. I find it hard to understand that Enhedslisten may have that view. Can we not see it potentially subversive to the welfare society by having such rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185345	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185347	Now we are not talking about details in different definitions. We are talking, as this motion for a resolution advocates, about introducing profit principles for welfare services. We are talking about principles here, and that is what I am dealing with. I would like to ask the Danish People's Party to address the problem that arises if you have the power that you have heeded and that the bourgeois parties would like to see now, the Socialists are obviously also on the road, having fought against such principles as are proposed here and arising on the Danish labour market, if thousands of foreign workers are not socially protected to the same extent as others.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185429	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185432	Thank you. I think that was a good speech from Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen. It was just not about the motion for a resolution, but generally about everything else that Enhedslisten would like: the fight against social dumping and other parts of Enhedslisten's political programme. However, I would like to hear about what the motion for a resolution is about, namely income principles for welfare services. Is it really something that Enhedslisten is opposed to? 'Cause I just heard in one sentence, sir. Finn Sørensen says it wasn't a problem. Is it really Enhedslisten's view that it is no problem if people from other EU countries come and receive high social benefits in Denmark, which means that we cannot afford to pay high social benefits to the Danes? Does the Enhedslisten care about that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185517	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185519	But that is not the reality at all described by the rapporteur. There is no economic problem in the stay of foreign workers here; the calculation has long since been made by the Ministry of Employment. They contribute, for Christ's sake, by paying taxes, just like all of us do. Then I do not understand that the rapporteur has not listened to what my appeal to this resolution is. As I said, there are also some things in it, and to the extent that the Member States themselves are allowed to decide something more about their policies, the Enhedslisten supports it. That's one thing. But the second is: what should the content be in that policy? And there we just disagree in principle with this motion for a resolution because it clearly states that profit principles must be established for welfare services. In addition to the principle that this is an attack on the whole principle of the Danish tax-financed welfare model, we point out the negative consequences it will have on our labour market and the growth in social dumping that will result from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185622	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185624	This is really such a classic difference between socialism and conservatism, where Enhedslisten is very loyal to the working class from all over the world, and it also means that people can come here and use the Danish welfare system, while we probably have the view that the Danish welfare system is there for the Danes, to ensure that the Danes can be well, and not to support the rest of Europe. I think this is interesting and honest talk, but I wonder how Enhedslisten will preserve the Danish welfare system if this problem grows.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185656	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185659	I do not really think the rapporteur is listening and will be addressing the crux of what I am saying. With regard to our position in principle, our line in this is if we are finally to use the terminology introduced by the rapporteur with capitalism and working class, and let us do so by loyalty to the Danish working class and these are two sides of the same coin. I have to say that the Danish working class has no interest in the fact that there are thousands of foreign workers in this country who have less social security than they have, because this will lead to social dumping, to wage printing and to foreign workers being forced to take any job at any price. I know that the rapporteur is in favour of them doing so, and perhaps that is also the real reason why the bourgeois parties can unite on such a principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185755	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen, there are no more brief remarks. And the next rapporteur is Christina Egelund of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202185813	Thank you. The Minister said at the outset that this is an unusual motion for a resolution. The Minister is quite right, because it is not often that we in the Parliamentary Assembly have the broad debates on European policy in principle. We do today, we do now, and that is why I really think this is unusual in the good way and not unusual in the bad way. The motion for a resolution we are debating here is aimed at ensuring the implementation of the principles of the plan "Danish welfare in Europe" as presented by the parties of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance before the parliamentary elections last year. The plan describes initiatives aimed at addressing, on the one hand, the problem of reconciling the right to work with the right to welfare benefits and, on the other hand, confirming Parliament's support for Britain in their negotiations on a new regime with the EU. Both are important for a positive development in the EU, and thus both are also important for Denmark. In the Liberal Alliance, we strongly support the principles of the free movement of workers. The freedom to settle in another European country, to take a job, to live and to learn about life outside its borders is absolutely a good thing for every European citizen. This is an opportunity which I myself have taken very much pleasure in. We must safeguard that right, not only for the sake of the individual, but also because it is a very great advantage for our companies that they can recruit employees across European borders without too much effort. But the right to take a job in another country should not be the same as the right to raise a welfare check in another country. There must be room for diversity within the framework of European cooperation and there is a great difference in how we have arranged our welfare services from north to south, east and west in Europe. That's what I'm talking about. When it is then experienced that e.g. Children's cheques circulate across national borders, so it challenges cohesion in Europe, and I am concerned that in the long term it can challenge support for the very principle of the free movement of workers. That is why we need clarity on the rules. There is a need to separate the right to take a job in another country from the right to receive cash welfare benefits in another country if we want to ensure the free movement of workers, and we do so in the Liberal Alliance. After all, this is an ambition that we share with the UK Government, just as we also support the three other British demands that are part of the ongoing negotiations between the European Union and Britain. The desire for greater flexibility also for those countries which were not allowed to subscribe to the ambition of ever closer union is necessary if the European Union is to include in the future the differences represented by the 28 Member States. Like the British, the Liberal Alliance wants clarification between the eurozone countries and those members of the European Union who have not joined the euro, that the eurozone countries should not commit the rest of the European Union to agreements that they may conclude with each other or with third parties. Last, but very important, we support the British in their desire for a strengthened internal market, which will be fully covered by what we consider to be at the heart of European cooperation, namely free trade. The plan "Danish well-being in Europe" should therefore be a basic point of reference in Danish European politics. That is why we have tabled the motion for a resolution, which we naturally support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202190203	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. And no one invited in with brief comments. So we're gonna take the next rapporteur, and that's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202190222	Freedom of movement is a cornerstone of European cooperation; it is a good thing we actually often take for granted, a good thing that contributes significantly to the Danish economy and that ensures that Danish companies can attract the necessary manpower and expertise. Danish companies need foreign labour, just as Danish citizens need to be able to settle in other European countries both to work, study and start a family, and without forsaking a social safety net. But with freedom of movement, there are also challenges, and I am not pale to admit it. Of course, EU citizens should not come to Denmark to exploit our welfare system, just as the EU system must, of course, ensure that citizens cannot receive benefits at the same time in several countries. As in any other cooperation and political community, there is a risk of abuse. But I think it is a utopia to think that we can eliminate all risks without actually undermining the community itself. In my view, there are two key issues to be taken into account in relation to the present proposal. One is: are we facing a real problem? The second is: can we really introduce a differentiated system of rights without undermining freedom of movement within the European Union? In 2013, the European Commission published a report on migrant workers. The report concluded that it is often a surplus business when EU citizens settle in another EU country. According to the report, data show that in most countries migrant workers are not more intensive users of welfare benefits than national citizens, and it turned out that EU citizens residing in another EU country but not in work account for a very small percentage of total social expenditure. That is why the question is: what is the level of welfare tourism? There is a researcher, Kirsten Ketscher, who points out that this is true, for example. is cheap with the Polish workers who get a children's check because their children actually live in Poland. So they do not draw on medical care, they do not draw on schools, yet they pay their taxes in Denmark. Basically, we do not believe that the Danish welfare model is threatened by welfare tourism. There is too much difference between a theoretical opportunity for cheating and the real challenge we face. In reality, these are also the same challenges that national governments face in the Danish system, because there are also citizens who sometimes make use of the rules. We fear, on the other hand, that this proposal can actually help to dissuade other European citizens from coming to Denmark, and the vast majority of people are actually coming here to work, to offer their labour and to carry out a task that we either do not have the resources or power to get covered. The parties behind the proposal also ask for Danish support for Britain's proposal for a new EU regulation; it is proposed that Denmark should enter into an alliance with like-minded countries in order to avoid the EU becoming a social union. I do not think it is a solution to create such a special suspension system as Britain has proposed and which the Commission seems to allow them to do. For basically, EU citizens who come to Denmark and contribute to the Danish economy should not be treated less favourably than Danish citizens who work and contribute to the Danish economy. That is why it is not acceptable for us to develop mechanisms which will affect foreign workers more widely. In fact, this may also mean that we will have problems attracting the skilled labour we also need from other EU countries. I fear that with the measures contained in the motion for a resolution, we are suggesting that the image of migrant workers is exaggerated by describing it as a kind of welfare tourism, and this is a concept based on the idea that foreign workers come to Denmark to sneak and grovel instead of providing a service and solving a job and paying their taxes. And this is, above all, the opportunity to work that attracts European citizens. Instead of supporting an over-simple myth formation on welfare tourism, I believe that we should look at the challenges facing us, for example, with social dumping. If we want to maintain a strong internal market, it is crucial that we address those challenges, but at the same time also show our support for binding cooperation rather than going to it as if it were a menu. We must, for all intents and purposes, avoid compromising free movement in the world. So, although we are very pleased that we are actually taking this debate in Parliament today and that it is being raised as a subject, we cannot support the proposal as it stands, but of course we are always happy to discuss the European Union, including in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202190726	Then we shall take up a few brief comments, and the first one is from Mr. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202190732	Thank you for that and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech, although I did not like the conclusion. The analysis can follow me and the Left far along the way. I also hope that, in my own rapporteur's speech, I was able to say that we do not consider this economic issue to be the main argument. That brings me to my question, because it is as if there is a strange contradiction in Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's post. He starts by recognising that there are problems and then neglecting them. What is at stake here is that political and political legitimacy cannot be ignored. Now, looking at how the 3 December vote ended and the apparent lack of legitimacy in a large part of the population, it does not make sense to try to address some of the obvious issues that come up, for example. About the kids' check thing? Is it not something that should weigh more heavily when, for example, we are discussing the matter? Are you going to take a position on a motion for a resolution like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202190829	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202190832	Yeah, but there's more to this. Of course, there is also something about principles, but you also have to look at how big the principles are, how many they really are about, how real a problem this is or whether we have to solve things in other ways, because you could also talk about this from a completely different angle and say: if people pay taxes in Denmark, should they not have the right to a child's check, or is it the Polish taxpayers who have to pay for our taxpayers living here in Denmark? Well, where are we gonna pay this money, and who's gonna pay it? I think this is a much greater discussion and I am afraid that the reason why there is scepticism is that we are simplifying it with the whole debate on welfare tourism and that they are coming for benefits. So let's try to address the real problems, let's figure out what it really is. As I could see in the figures from the Commission from 2013, this is not the big challenge. So let us talk about the real challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202190922	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202190926	Okay, I don't think there's going to be an answer to the question of legitimacy, but it may be that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist will address it in the next answer. I would just like to add to this question of whether it is an economic problem, that it is also notorious that if you present the figures, then the development and the curve are going in the wrong direction at least. Then you couldn't try to attack this seriously, and I know that the alternative will certainly look at where this ends if the same trends continue?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202190950	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202190953	I think I touched on the issue of legitimacy in relation to the citizens and how this is dealt with here. It is also about indictment and how we deal with the challenges we face in here. But yes, of course we must take the challenges seriously. Of course, we also need to look at projections. The question is how to deal with them. Are we going to go in with some like-minded countries and try to shield ourselves from what is being proposed here with the Netherlands, with Britain? No, we don't think so. In fact, we believe that it has already been addressed by the Commission that we would like to look at these things. So let us work in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191027	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191031	I was really looking forward to this rapporteur's speech from the Alternative, because it is, almost every time you hear the alternative address a political issue, a revival and something new, and so was this. I understand, then, that this is no problem and therefore the alternative will not address it. On the basis of the same reasoning, it can be said that there are not many men who rape Danish women, so why even relate to it when there is no reason to relate to it? The thing is, this is gonna be a problem. In two years, the number of SU beneficiaries from Eastern European countries has increased sevenfold. I do not know whether the rapporteur is aware of what Bulgarians earn on average in Bulgaria. I can tell the rapporteur that it is DKr 8 000. I can tell the rapporteur that a Romanian agricultural worker earns 2 euros and 10 cents per hour. Does the rapporteur really not believe that it will mean that the Danish welfare community will be put under tremendous pressure in the coming years if we do not do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191133	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191136	I will not comment on the comparison made by the rapporteur, because it was close to pervert. I recognise that people, because we have freedom of movement, are travelling around Europe: they are studying, they are working, they are starting a family. This is a system that we have chosen to have in the European Union and which I very much value, and free movement also, of course, means that we must constantly look at how to link our systems so that they can deal with free movement. I do not think that this resolution, which the rapporteur is behind, is appropriate. On the contrary, I believe that we are trying to close ourselves up with a few countries with which we can then compare ourselves. That's not the way I want to go. I would like to cooperate broadly in the European Union because I believe that the European Union is a good thing and because I think that freedom of movement is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191219	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191222	But that is not an argument, because something is not being exploited by a very large amount, so we must not do anything about it because a very large quantity does not do anything inappropriate. This cannot be used as an argument, even if you are an alternative. The fact is that we are dealing with a growing challenge from Eastern European employees in particular, who are trying to come to Denmark to lurk on the Danish welfare community. Does the rapporteur really not think that it is potentially a problem if the proportion of Eastern European Social Fund beneficiaries continues to increase sevenfold every two years?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191302	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191305	What I think is important is to deal with the facts. I have come to see what the Commission has come up with in this area. At the same time, I also note that, when this has been raised by various Member States, the Commission says: yes, we must look at how we can do it. Are we going to do this together in the community that the European Union is, or are we going to make a small group of friendly countries and talk about these things? I believe that this should be done within the framework of the European Union, because that is where the cooperation is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191330	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191334	Thank you. After all, I share the rapporteur's approach to the part where the rapporteur says that there is no proof of welfare tourism and that the problem is being exaggerated. If there were to be specific problems in individual areas, for example: The SU rules, you have to look at the conditions for obtaining the SU. That is not an argument for the general introduction of profit principles. But I would like to hear from the rapporteur: does the rapporteur accept that I heard the rapporteur say a little about the fact that we have a problem called social dumping? For it may well be that in large national accounts it is an advantage with foreign workers, but the construction worker who loses his job one day, for the day after seeing a busload of foreign workers drive in and take over his work half or less in salary, can not really see any financial scam in it. So what is the rapporteur's answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191432	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191434	I do not care what nationality a person takes up a job in Denmark has, but I do care that they work under the rules and agreements we have in Denmark. If they do not, we are dealing with social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191449	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191452	We then agree that it is not the nationality that decides it. But unfortunately it is just a fact that there are Danish companies and Danish bakers who put it into a system and import cheap labour from other countries cheaply because it does not have the same professional organisation and there are all sorts of other reasons. In some cases there are also examples of advertising after foreign workers and saying that they should be paid less than their Danish colleagues because they receive a child's check. So we have some problems here. There I would like to hear: what is the rapporteur's response to these problems? Because I think it is very important that we have those answers or else there is going to be a fall in the ditch in which the bourgeois parties have fallen by saying that foreigners should not have the same rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191537	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191540	I cannot stand here now and roll out a big plan about what we are doing against social dumping, but of course the internal market must not be an excuse for dumping wages in Denmark. Well, I kind of think so. Nor should we use the social benefits to dump wages, nor should we use social dumping as an excuse so as to reduce the rights you get when you pay taxes in a country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191610	One last brief remark from Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191614	Thank you very much. The reason I have just taken the floor is that the rapporteur mentions this because it is not really a problem to come here and receive social benefits. However, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also points out, the number of recipients of the SU has increased sevenfold in two years, and so I think a little bit: how much will the number become before the alternative estimates that it will in principle be a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191638	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191641	I really think there are two things being mixed up in this question. So, as someone else also asks, if there is a specific problem with the SU, let us look at it. But the question is: What do people come to study here? So they come to work here, too? Will they come to create a life in Denmark? And I don't mind them doing that, whether they come from Hungary or Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191702	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191706	Then I'll try to ask you another way. The rapporteur says that we should not put ourselves under a small cheese bell with a few countries, but that he would like to see broad cooperation within the EU's borders. Should we then just wait two years, four years, six years before anything concrete comes from the European Union that we can relate to, while the number of those who receive benefits then grows and grows?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191732	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191735	Well, I must also acknowledge that the Commission has started to look at this. They've already talked about it. We also heard the Minister say at the outset that this was already being done. I cannot understand what it is like for some people to talk up a problem which is already being investigated, which is already being dealt with. So for me, it's some weird fantasy world we're drawing from this big monster called welfare tourism that I just don't recognize.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191759	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Alternative's rapporteur. It is then the next rapporteur who is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202191813	Thank you very much. Let me start by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution, because on the part of the Radical Left we always welcome a good debate on the European Union. We would like more of this both in this Chamber and in Denmark as a whole. That is quite the nice thing I have to say about the motion for a resolution. This is because, as several of the rapporteurs have said, the Minister too, namely that it is a strange motion for a resolution. What is the content itself, the different sticks, there is virtually unanimous agreement on at least as far as I know among the vast majority of parties here in Parliament. Without having to entertain the Danish Parliament for too long, I can tell you that I have spent, I dare not say how many meetings and hours of my life as Minister for Foreign Affairs, trying to get closer to a solution to exactly the same points in an attempt to ensure that we avoid abuse of welfare benefits; that we do not get a stick in the wheel of the internal market and free movement; that we, of course, are also trying to find a solution that will keep Britain in the European Union. So that is not what we are discussing today, although I would also like to discuss it. What we are discussing is the ability to present it in a resolution that has as its explicit purpose, as stated in the motion for a resolution, to signal a more EU-sceptic line. That is what this resolution is about. If I should try to be a little more politically sophisticated, then I would say that this is a small well-organised trap that the three blue parties, which do not form the government, have laid out to the government, with a view to getting them into a more EU-sceptic line. I have always wondered why the Danish People's Party has succeeded in bringing both the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives into this, because I actually thought that not least the Liberal Alliance was in favour of a common European market, was in favour of freedom of movement and of all sorts of good liberal principles, which are enshrined in Europe, and that they would therefore not join the Danish People's Party's car. But, of course, the Liberal Alliance has to do that. However, I do not understand why the Left is jumping at this crazy with a more EU-sceptic signal, because, as far as I know both the Minister and the Left, they only have a desire to secure the benefits, to secure the economic engine of the internal market and freedom of movement, and not to signal a line that is more EU-sceptic than most necessary, while at the same time resolving the specific problems that we all agree on. As far as I can assess it, you can have different ratings of both the Minister and Mr. Morten Løkkegaard the same, namely that it is a strange proposal, because the content of it is already working for, so it serves only one purpose, namely to signal a more EU-sceptic line and try to drive down a wedge in the Folketing between the blue parties and the rest of the Folketing, including us who normally want to be included in a broad majority. I am not saying that in order to exclude anyone; anyone who wants to be a part of it must be involved, but we must then try to create a broad-based European policy, because it is often best to be as many parties as possible to define European policy. So for those reasons, at least we don't want to be in this galley. It is not because we have major problems with the sticks that have been put up, but because it is so explicit that the purpose of this is to signal a more EU-sceptic line. The Radical Left does not want that, nor do we want a European policy which, I would have liked to say, is formulated by a minority rather than by a broad majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192204	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192208	Thank you. We may feel some frustration at the fact that both the Socialists and the Left are moving away from the European political agreement, of which the Radical Left is actually a part, and are introducing some other principles and taking a different course, which does not, of course, lead to the core of Europe, if we are to analyse what is going on here. But you have to lie around with the EU-friendly parties, where I can understand that if you get it with you, the Danish People's Party is part of the fucking party. No, what I want to ask the rapporteur is: the rapporteur says that we agree with the principles described in this way, i.e. the content, the sticks that are there. This puzzles me a great deal, because a very important stick that is being put in a lot of space is the introduction of profit principles, but as far as I remember, we had a major debate here in the Danish Parliament in 2014, when the Radical Left and their then minister Morten Østergaard agreed with Enhedslisten that we should not at least support the bourgeois version of profit principles. Then we disagreed about some other things, but that's just it. So what has happened to the Radical Left, since they are suddenly in favour of profit principles which mean that there is no equal right for workers who pay taxes in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192326	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192328	Without having to go into detail with the concrete solutions in the area of daily allowances, in the area of child checks, in all sorts of things, it can be said that the basic principle I do not believe we will actually agree with the Enhedslisten about, although we wonder a great deal in the Enhedslisten's EU policy, not least that we are both in favour of a European solution to the refugee crisis and, at the same time, against the tools to create a common refugee policy. In relation to the daily allowance, that is right. We still pay tribute to the fact that if you have equal duties, you also have equal rights. This also applies to people working in Denmark. What we are discussing at the moment is where we should have earned our right, whether it could be anywhere in Europe, or whether it should be in the country where we should then also enjoy our rights, after paying, if I may say so, its duties. There we have always signalled that we must, of course, ensure that we avoid abuse of the Danish rules on unemployment benefits. That has also been our starting point, but it was to protect them, not the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192430	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192434	We saw clearly in the discussion on the children's check the version of profit principles by the bourgeois parties. This means that the periods spent in other Member States and worked there should not be counted. That is what the whole conflict consisted of in relation to the law of the bourgeois parties on the principle of child benefit, which we agreed to vote against. The rapporteur now says that we are in favour of the principle of profit, but the rapporteur knows what it means. It means that it will not accept the inclusion of periods of foreign workers from other countries. That's what the conflict was all about. So what has happened to the Radical Left since they suddenly agree with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192520	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192522	What I answered was in relation to the daily allowance. I misunderstood the questioner, and I regret that. In relation to children's cheques, our position is that you should go for an indexing of the children's cheque so that you get it, if you have to have it paid in your home country, at the level that is. This is certainly something that we have discussed under the previous government and which we have also expressed in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192544	A brief comment from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192548	In fact, I am a little encouraged after hearing Mr. Martin Lidegaard's speech as rapporteur, because I was actually coming to the conclusion that there was nothing that the Social Democracy and the Radical Left agreed on any longer. However, I understand that this is agreed upon by the Social Democrats and the Radical Left. In any case, you agree that the procedure is rather bizarre and that it is a major problem, but the concrete points can really be supported, at least to some extent. So far so good. The rapporteur said that he attached great importance to the existence of a broadly based European policy. I agree with the rapporteur on this point. I agree with the rapporteur. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether, in a broad-based European policy, it is not also based on a broad-based population.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192644	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192647	Absolutely. Now I would like to say that I actually started by thanking you for the motion for a resolution. I have no problem with the tabling of the motion for a resolution, but I have problems with what is being signalled by the motion for a resolution, namely an increase in EU scepticism. That's politics. That's what I'm having trouble with in this proposal, and that's why I'm voting against it. Yes, of course we have to do that, I think that lies in the rapporteur's question, taking stock of the 'no' that we received in relation to the legal reservation, for example, and trying to find a solution to it. On this occasion, I would just like to point out in all silence that the prerequisite for us to have this 'no' was, of course, that all parties including the Danish People's Party guaranteed full membership of Europol. I do not think we would have had a 'no' if the Danish People's Party had not guaranteed full and complete membership of Europol. And now we have to try to get that. It is also part of the broad understanding that I think we will have to have here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192744	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192748	Well, then the Social Democrats and Radicals didn't agree, but okay, I'll get over that somehow. I am actually pleased that Mr. Martin Lidegaard says that such an agreement on European policy must also be broadly based on the people, because I cannot, if I may say so, interpret that differently from the fact that there is also a desire on the part of the Radical Left to take parties on board that are more critical of the European Union than Mr Tugendhat. Martin Lidegaard's own party. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192826	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192830	What makes it so difficult to interpret a 'no' and say that now we have to adjust our policy to the people is that there were very many reasons to vote 'no' when we voted on the legal reservation on 3 December. There was a Enhedslistenno, there was a Danish People's Party-no, there was a Liberal Alliance-no, and we cannot satisfy everyone, because that was very different reasons to recommend a no. And that is why it cannot be any different than trying to get together with the parties that have the positions closest to our own when we have to formulate policy. When I mention it with Europol, it is because I think that the Danish People's Party owes it to us to tell us what exactly we want to achieve with Europol. What exactly is the solution envisaged in relation to Danish ties with the European Union? What is the EU vision of the Danish People's Party other than being skeptical? And before we get any more precise proposals, it is very difficult to make an EU policy in this Parliament that is so widely based that it can also accommodate the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten, which are very busy being against, but a little less busy finding realistic alternatives to where we are going with Europe and the European Union. And that is also why we do not think it makes much sense with such a motion for a resolution, which is merely intended to signal an EU scepticism and nothing else.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192955	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard now has access to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202192959	Thank you. I would just like to follow up on the widespread research carried out by the rapporteur here, which is evidently at the heart of the criticism against this motion for a resolution. A small, well-organized trap I think the rapporteur was told it was, and now I have to say that the rapporteur has heard my speech and has thus been able to see that we were not in that trap. So my question is: if we ignore that little word of scepticism, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard was very aware of this, but as I hope I was able to explain, and if we look beyond that somewhat semantic discussion, what exactly is there in this text that gives us reason to believe that someone would have fallen into some trap?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202193045	Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202193049	So it's difficult... I hope that Mr. Morten Løkkegaard will forgive me for going down the individual points in such a way as to say both what is actually happening in relation to the negotiations between the Commission and England and the Council of Ministers and what is realistic to get in the individual areas. So I would just like to answer that there is nothing in the specific content, or rather in the intentions of the individual points, namely to avoid the abuse of welfare services and to ensure that Britain can stay there at the overall level and as a target, in my opinion or in the opinion of the Radical Left, because we are in agreement with that. There may be a few details • The Enhedslisten was on some of them where you can ask whether it is one way or the other way you have to go, to have the overall purpose fulfilled, but that is not the one that resists, and therefore it is clearly the context. It's true that you have to be careful about the subject of motive research, but I don't think it's so hard to misunderstand the motive in this. Because the motion for a resolution states that it is in order to signal an increase in EU scepticism. When I listen to all the rapporteurs from the three proposing parties, I can hear that that is the purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202193150	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202193154	Okay, I guess we won't get much on with that. But then I would just like to focus on what was said in recognition of our view of the UK strategy, in other words, the whole question of the fact that there is another and broader purpose in going in and helping and supporting British efforts. Can we draw it so far as to say that the Radicals are in favour of that strategy for the purpose of keeping the British in the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202193220	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202193223	I have read the report today from Donald Tusk, and I am sure that the rapporteur also has an interesting proposal. It can be said here that we are getting confirmation of the old lesson that even in deep crises there are opportunities, and I think there are also, and I think we should certainly go for those opportunities, if that is what the rapporteur is asking for, both to ensure that Britain can hopefully stay in the European Union, but also because it can benefit our own efforts. Having said that, I would also just like to warn against the fact that people are so quick to come to Britain and these concerns that violence is being committed against the more fundamental freedom of movement. I also heard the rapporteur of the Left say that in his speech, and I was pleased to hear that, as I also said, it was not EU skepticism as such that was the reason why the Left voted in favour. I still do not quite understand why we are voting in favour, but I do agree that it is a question of getting the best out of the situation we are in and grasping the opportunities it offers. At the same time, let us avoid damaging what is the whole engine and, it can be said, the vision and beauty of EU cooperation, namely the internal market and free movement, which has helped us a great deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202193333	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. There are no more brief comments and we shall move on to the last rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202193348	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution here is a reminder of what Europe's policy is, especially as regards welfare policy, which we want, and that is not surprising to anyone, because it was set out quite openly in the run-up to the elections. In the bourgeois camp, we would like to see the things that have been promised to be carried out implemented, and that is why we are pleased that at least the four parties who have written this before the elections and who are still supporting the fact that this is the course we must follow, and then it is excellent to remember it and to ensure that there is a momentum going on so that we do not stop and it does not just become a declaration of intent, but that there is actually going to be work in the direction that we want. So it is not a question of sending signals. It's actually a question that this is very important for Denmark's prosperity. It is a huge challenge for Denmark, and it is a huge challenge for the whole of Europe if the free movement of workers, which is a good thing, is challenged by the fact that social clients can also move freely around and search for the places where you can get the highest welfare benefits. If that is the case, it will be a huge challenge for a country like Denmark, where we have very high welfare benefits, because we are going to pay them to a large number of people from the rest of Europe, and because we do not get attracted labour, but we get attracted social clients. That simply cannot be done. Freedom of movement in Europe has never been intended for social clients to travel around. The intention is, of course, that the workforce should be able to look where it is needed and that we should have an efficient production facility in Europe and that we should be able to attract the people to where they are needed and produce the things that are needed. However, it is not intended that homeless people and cash benefit recipients and others should go where they receive the best benefits. We believe that everyone must realise this, and we also believe that it must be possible to talk to the other EU countries about this problem, because we do not believe that anyone thinks that it is appropriate if that is what is going on. That is why we are very pleased that Britain has taken the initiative and we are very pleased with the negotiations that are taking place at the moment. We believe that Denmark must back Cameron and Great Britain in order to get a solution to this problem, and we expect the government to do so too. When we send it, we clearly expect it to be something that we support, and we are glad that a small opening has arrived today. Although there are quite a lot of reservations about the proposal that has come from the European Union today, there is a movement, and we think that is very positive. But it is absolutely crucial that Denmark backs up, so that we get the best possible result, so that we get as far as possible in the direction where there will be an opportunity to make profit principles where countries can decide for themselves who should have the social benefits. No one is entitled to social benefits in Denmark other than the Danes, we think that we should hold on to that. But we can allocate it, if appropriate. Of course, in the case of political decisions in the Folketing from a reasonable point of view and on the basis of what is appropriate for Denmark, there may also be foreigners who can receive social benefits. But it must be the Folketing that has to decide that kind of thing. This has been a fine debate. However, I have very much wondered about the excuses that have been made along the way for not voting for this. I have heard a large number of parties, particularly, I think, the Socialists, be extremely creative in making it up, it was something with the process, it was supposed to be some other parties and so on, but there was nothing in the motion for a resolution that the Socialists actually objected to, and we are all aware of that situation. There is one or other resolution that comes from the other side, and one would rather not vote for it, and then one finds some excuse for not doing so. But it's too bad to have that approach to it. It is a pity that you do not just take a position on it and say that this is sensible, it is right for Denmark, it is fleeing with what you stand for politically, and then it votes through. But that is going to be voted through, and we are delighted about it, and we are going to keep the government up with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202193812	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202193829	Thank you, sir. President. First of all, I would like to thank the Members of the House for their sympathetic treatment of the motion for a resolution tabled jointly by the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party. Once the proposal has been put forward, this is because we are a little impatient with the government in this area. In the 2015 parliamentary election campaign, EU issues as usual did not fill so much, but still more than in previous elections, among others. Thanks to the joint Musketeer on which all the non-socialist parties went to the polls, namely to set up borders for the European Union. We have been hearing about this with the limits of what the European Union should be dealing with for a few years, including on the part of the Left. I remember, for example. a European Parliament election campaign in 2009, where Mr. Jens Rohde toured the country and rich around and demanded fence posts about EU cooperation. It's probably no longer Mr. Jens Rohde's position, but I think we have today confirmed that it is the position of the Left Party, and that is in itself encouraging. Now we just want that confirmation to be translated into concrete policy. The six concrete steps towards the smaller EU that we have proposed are: the introduction of income principles; the guarantee of daily allowances so that EU citizens cannot, after a few weeks of work and membership of the unemployment fund, have access to Danish daily allowances; a neighbouring check on welfare benefits; support the reform course of the UK Government; work against the establishment of a social union; and work for the revision of the rules on welfare benefits for migrant workers. These are six quite specific measures. I have therefore also been pleased, as I have already said, that the Left has today reaffirmed the party's support for the six points. On the other hand, I am sincerely a little saddened that, despite repeated calls, the Social Democrats have been unable to extract a single point from the six against which the party is opposed. I have not really been able to find out what the social democracy's approach to this matter has been, apart from the fact that it is a procedural matter, something with some parties and something with something that one would actually like to discuss behind roll-down curtains, which one is accustomed to when it comes to the European Union. There are a number of challenges that we need to address. Child benefit is one of them. There is also the relationship around SU, where with just 10 hours of weekly work next to the studies you are entitled to SU. There are the 296 hours of work within three weeks of entitlement to benefit, which can even be taken to another EU country for three months. In addition, it must be noted in parentheses that one can actually live exceptionally well for Danish daily allowances in Romania for three months. It stresses the need for the European Union not to develop into a social union, but rather to start taking steps restricting the right of migrant workers to social benefits. If the vote on the reservation of 3 December last year shows anything, it is that there is deep scepticism among the Danish people about cooperation in the European Union. It is a view which is valid in many parts of Western Europe and which has also materialised the few times that citizens have been consulted. For example, the vote on the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union could be mentioned in, among other things, the Treaty on European Union. The Netherlands, the many votes in Ireland, yes, all the way back to the French vote on the Maastricht Treaty, which is now almost forgotten, but only 51.05 per cent. of the French voters voted 'yes'. Would we not have had a completely different cooperation today if the result had been the opposite? The Danish People's Party is not opposed to European cooperation as such. We believe that European cooperation is essential in the areas of, for example: trade, environment and consumer protection. However, EU cooperation has gradually assumed a character, most recently legally with the Treaty of Lisbon and practically politically with the forced distribution of 160 000 asylum seekers against the wishes of a number of Eastern European countries, which threaten the foundations of European cooperation at all. The European Union is on its way to an imperial overstretch. The European Union is simply interfering in too much, and so its support not only for the European Union, but also for European cooperation. That is why the European top politicians should know their visiting time. If you really want the European Union to pass in ten years' time, then it is now time to change its course; now is the time for the European Union to get to know its borders; now is the time for power to start moving from the European Union to the nation states and not the other way around. In the Laeken Declaration, the EU had the basis for turning the kayak back. However, the EU Constitutional Convention chose to totally ignore the Laeken Declaration. The EU's top politicians ignored the outcome of the vote on the Constitutional Treaty and simply rewritten the Constitution to the Treaty of Lisbon with a few editorial amendments. Now the Europeans are having enough, and since the British in particular, whose government has put forward a series of proposals grouped together under four headings, which, if one in Europe chooses to learn from this, may change the course of the European Union quite fundamentally. In the four well-known headlines on reservations about the ever closer union, fairness towards non-euro countries, an improved internal market and restrictions on social benefits for migrant workers are also central to the direction to be taken by EU cooperation, for example. Increased involvement of national parliaments in the EU's decision-making process; emphasising the EU's subsidiarity principle; transitional arrangements for future EU Member States so that, for example, their citizens cannot support the right to free movement of workers from the first day; stronger opportunities to deport unwanted aliens, etc. These want to flee a great deal with the wishes we have in the Danish People's Party for an EU that concentrates on its core tasks and denies the idea of ever more EU integration. Whether you want to use the term federation or not, there is still a continuous drift of power from the nation states to Brussels. The Danish Government, together with the British Government and other governments that have seen the writing on the wall, can give EU cooperation the artificial breathing that cooperation needs. But it takes you to dare. The alternative to daring is that European cooperation is going away with a bang but a whimper... to paraphrase the British psychiatrist and philosopher Anthony Daniels, who writes under his nom de guerre Theodore Dalrymple. Therefore, the government should have the courage to live up to the agreement that the governing party itself was part of prior to the general election in 2015. And that is why the government must get into work on this front, so that we and the voters can also see the results of a change in EU course, where Denmark no longer creeps under the table in the EU when the negotiations get tough, but bites itself into the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202194640	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202194644	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. After all, we are in agreement on one thing, and that is that the European Union is interfering too much in what rules we are making at home. Then we, our two parties, very often disagree on what rules we want at home, but that is what democracy must be allowed to decide and we can ask the electorate. I'm afraid it's not like that. There is one point where we agree. But why is the Danish People's Party not fighting for something that I actually thought it was in favour of, namely that we have a fifth exception, an exception to the EU rules on social policy, so that the issues we are talking about today, welfare benefits and everything, are something we decide in the Danish Parliament, and not something that needs to be decided in Brussels by politicians from 27 other countries? Why do you not raise that battle instead of joining a boat that only causes problems for another issue, which the Danish People's Party otherwise says they care a lot about, namely social dumping? 'Cause that's gonna be the result if this whole thing with profit principles is allowed to spread.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202194750	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202194754	There are two things to say about that. The first is that we fight too much more than that. We are fighting for a reduced European Union, an EU that will have a completely different way of dealing with politics, a European Union where, and it may sound dreamy, but nevertheless it is not the Commission that sits in all its wisdom and makes proposals, but where we, the national parliaments, decide whether or not to discuss matters at EU level. This is the kind of more democratic cooperation we are fighting for, and that also means what Mr. Finn Sørensen points out. However, in relation to the principles of income, the waters may divide slightly between Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party, because basically we think it is right to have profit principles, not only for EU citizens, but for all foreigners who come to Denmark, so that you have to work in Denmark before, if I may say so, you get a share in our welfare benefits. And I think that is a fair principle in every way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202194857	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202194859	What the rapporteur means by profit principles is that you have to pay tax from day one, because that is what you do when you work in Denmark and come here to work. However, the rights that come with paying taxes will not have to be granted until 5, 7, 10 years from now. It should wait as long as possible, I can understand it all. There I just want the rapporteur to take a look at the fact that if we get a large group of thousands of foreign workers in this country who do not have the same social security as those who already live here firmly, it cannot help but lead to an increase in the problem we call social dumping, because then those workers are forced to take any job at any salary and work illegally and all sorts of things. Would the rapporteur not like to address this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160202194946	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202194949	Yes, the rapporteur would like that. And I think that the correct answer to that question is in fact much bigger than that, Mr President. Finn Sørensen is trying to limit it to. After all, it is a fundamental dispute about what the European Union is like. Basically, I and the Danish People's Party are not in favour of migrant workers. We are in favour of an internal market involving goods, but we are basically not in favour of moving from Romania or Bulgaria to Denmark and getting a job here. And I really think that was the right way to deal with that challenge, sir. Finn Sørensen mentions, on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202195035	Thank you. Then I think we have got through the debate on B 48. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160202195057	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, and I would like to thank everyone for their work in the service of the people's regime. We have another meeting tomorrow, Wednesday, 3 February 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule set out on the Danish Parliament's website.
