ParlaMint-DK_20160503215630	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503215632	The first item on the agenda can only be dealt with at the meeting with the agreement of the House. But if no one objects, I consider the consent to be granted. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503215707	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503215731	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and the vote may begin. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 6 (ALT), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and it is now being sent to the Prime Minister. Before we start with item 2 on the agenda, I would just like to give you a minute so that those who are not allowed to stay in the Chamber can leave the Chamber in a calm manner so that we can continue with the last item of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503215930	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 10 May 2016. I give the floor for a explanatory statement to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503215959	Thank you for that, President. After all, it is a long day after a long day, and perhaps some people are asking whether it is now also necessary for us to have a question debate on the Palestinian conflict. Yes, we believe that this debate is important because there has been a sharp deterioration in the whole situation in Palestine and, above all, in the West Bank. This is a conflict that is so central to the whole region and is so important for the development of the region. We have seen that violence has escalated quite, quite strongly in the last half to three quarters of a year, and not least in the last few months. Many young Palestinians react violently to the occupation and their futureless lives. The Israeli military reacts disproportionately with the killing of young Palestinians who are being imprisoned and hatred escalates. We can see that settlements continue and we can see that the parties are as far apart as ever before. After all, the United States has been very closely involved in resolving the conflict. The United States has done so many times in the past. Recently, John Kerry tried to put all his prestige into it. It didn't work out. We were with a delegation from the Foreign Policy Group in Israel and Palestine here in March, which was very useful in many ways, and some of what I think went back on in what we received from reports was that after the United States is not really there any more, there is an expectation that Europe might play a stronger role in relation to the conflict and also a desire for Denmark to become more involved in it. That is why I am curious to hear what the Foreign Minister has to say to this question, and I would therefore like to say that I hope we can have a constructive and good debate on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503220238	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. We'll hear that now, because now it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503220245	Thank you for the opportunity to discuss the subject here, thank you for the question. This gives me the opportunity to highlight a conflict that many people have been deeply concerned about over the years. This applies to the direct parties, in other words Israel and Palestine, to the two peoples who, for years, have felt the consequences of the conflict's interference in everyday life, as well as to the international community, which, despite a great deal of commitment and sometimes massive political pressure on the parties, has not been able to resolve the conflict that could almost be called a square circle. The current situation is not encouraging. No peace settlement has been negotiated between Israel and Palestine since the shipwreck in the spring of 2014 by Mr. Holger K. Nielsen mentioned attempts by John Kerry to make progress in the negotiations. And there is little faith right now that new negotiations will begin in the near future. I shall refer later to two international initiatives which may contribute to the momentum. First of all, I would like to inform you about the situation in Israel and Palestine. Over the past six months it has been marked by a serious spiral of violence which has led to the loss of human life. The pattern has been attacked by the Palestinians against Israelis, often using a knife, and in most cases the reaction of the Israeli security forces has led to the murder of the perpetrator. Towards the end of March, the UN reports that more than 200 people have been killed. Of these, approx. 30 Israelis and approx. 200 Palestinians. The unfortunate events have taken place in the West Bank and in Israel. The EU and the government condemn the terrorist attacks and violence on all sides. It is important to emphasise that the Palestinian attacks on Israelis, often carried out by individual individuals, are not attributed to Palestinian self-government. On the contrary, the Israeli Government and its autonomy maintain long-standing security cooperation in the West Bank, which, in the current situation, has contributed significantly to avoiding further escalation. But this is an untenable situation. In the first place, it is important for the parties to refrain from any action which might exacerbate the situation by inciting or provoking. On the contrary, both sides must jointly combat any dangerous practices with words. At the same time, the parties must condemn the attacks when they take place and strictly respect the principles of necessity and proportionality in the use of force. In the second round, the political leaders in Israel and Palestine will have to look ahead. Violence can only be stopped by restoring a political horizon. Dialogue between the parties must be resumed, security measures alone cannot stop the spiral of violence. The underlying causes of the conflict must be addressed, so to speak, at the root of the nettle. Israel, for its part, must put an end to the illegal settlements, they are undermining the possibility of a two-state solution. Israel must also take tangible steps to improve the framework for the daily lives of Palestinians, both in the West Bank and in Gaza. At the same time, Hamas and other armed groups in Gaza must be demilitarised so that the launch of rockets against Israel and its inhabitants is stopped. The Palestinians must establish a political culture that results in genuine and democratic elections for all Palestinians. Only strong inclusive democracies and democratic institutions can form the basis for the creation of a viable and independent Palestinian state. Then we are, as it were, back at the square of the circle, because in the end the conflict between Israel and Palestine arises from the lack of a peace solution, the absence of a two-state solution. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen asks what the government will do to get negotiations back on track, and I would like to make it clear that the government is in fact looking very realistically at our options. Denmark cannot only move something in this conflict, so the government is working first and foremost through the EU. On the other hand, this does not mean that the government has shut down a Danish engagement with Israel and Palestine • on the contrary, when you consider the current Danish contacts with both parties. Foreign policy Name visited Israel and Palestine in March, the Prime Minister had informal meetings at Easter with Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas, the Speaker of Parliament visiting Israel and Palestine in June. In addition, there are extensive contacts at civil service level both in Copenhagen, in Israel and in Palestine, and I myself have been involved in discussing the issue of the Middle East peace process several times when European Foreign Ministers meet at the Brussels and Luxembourg Councils. So the government has a very accurate picture of the status. We use that image to conduct a Danish Middle East policy through the EU first and foremost. I mentioned two international initiatives earlier. First of all, it is a French proposal for an international conference during 2016 and, in addition, the Middle East Quartet will draw up a report on the situation, possibly with recommendations on the way forward. The French proposal was welcomed at the EU Foreign Ministers' meeting in March. The proposal is to hold a major international conference with the participation of the two parties in late 2016. The current French probes need to clarify more about timing, content and participation. At the same time, the Middle East Quartet has decided to draw up a report on the state of the conflict. It will probably contain recommendations on the way forward and can be predicted in combination with the French conference initiative. The government supports the initiatives in question. Whether they will lead to a new and positive dynamic, I cannot promise today. Without the real support of both sides, this will not be possible. We've seen that several times. The suspicion between the two sides is great, and therefore mutual trust, on the other hand, is very small. We know that from the parties themselves. The negotiations may lead to the implementation of the principle of the 1947 United Nations plan of division on two states, Israel and Palestine. Denmark already supported this at that time, and now we are looking for solid support from the parties to the project. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503220924	Thank you to the Secretary of State. We are going to start with the rapporteurs. First, it's sir. Holger K. Nielsen, rapporteur for the questioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503220942	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement. It is absolutely right that this requires both sides to take a closer look and to get the dialogue back on track, and this is a prerequisite for moving forward. But I also think it is worth having in mind that the relationship of power between the two parties is quite asymmetrical. After all, this is a Palestinian territory occupied by Israel. Israel acts like an occupying power in the area; has set up a series of checkpoints which ordinary people must pass every day if they are going to work; they need many hours every day to get from their homes to their jobs; they do not know when they meet an Israeli soldier who is competent to examine them for various things; there is a great deal of unemployment; many live in refugee camps in the West Bank. In other words, we cannot see this in isolation from the situation that ordinary Palestinians are living under in the West Bank. And we can see it as a major cause of the reactions that have been in relation to the Israeli occupying power. We also need to have in mind that this asymmetrical power relationship is, of course, an expression of having a very strong party and an infinitely weak party towards each other. The main responsibility for this is therefore that the strong party is also willing to engage in a process. We have to say this, again on the basis that both parties obviously have a responsibility for this. I totally agree with that. However, we have to bear in mind that settlements are illegal, illegal and that settlers are often violent towards their surroundings and are not prosecuted in the same way as others are being, and so on. etc. In other words, it is a very, very difficult daily life for ordinary people. I also think we should have it safe in the back of our heads. That was also one of the issues we discussed with many Israelis when the mention was down there, that is, of course they are concerned about whether their security can be maintained. That is also understandable. Just as a Palestinian family must be allowed to live in their house on the West Bank, without risking being attacked by Israeli soldiers, or their house being suddenly demolished, just as rightly has an Israeli family who goes with their child to school to be able to do so without being hit by a rocket. Of course. Both parties have the right to live a life of security and without risking being affected by either one or the other. That is, of course, the starting point for it. But there we also have to say, like being able to say, that if we are going to move on there and if Israel is going to be able to survive this, we need a two-state solution, as the Minister also mentioned. I fully agree with that. This is being questioned by more and more people, and it is really worrying at the moment, namely that more and more people are questioning whether a two-state solution can be achieved at all. Should the Palestinians abandon their administration of the area? Is that supposed to shut itself down? Is it going to turn the whole West Bank over to the power of Israel with the consequences that it may have? What is the responsibility of the Israeli State? That discussion is going on, but it would be deeply, deeply worrying if we got this far, because it would ultimately undermine Israel's existence as a democratic Jewish state. You won't be able to survive that. That is why it is in Israel's interest, above all, that there should be a two-state solution, and I think we should also be able to put that pressure on the Israeli Government. On behalf of the SF, the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alliance, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party, I would like to read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament refers to V 13 from 2014, the Danish Parliament expresses its deep concern about the serious loss of human life. Parliament condemns the terrorist attacks and acts of violence on all sides and calls on the parties to condemn attacks when they take place and to adhere strictly to the principles of necessity and proportionality in the use of force. Parliament stresses the need for a re-establishment of dialogue and a political horizon between the parties. Security measures cannot effectively stop the spiral of violence without addressing the underlying causes of the conflict. Parliament calls on the government to work bilaterally and through the EU and the UN to ensure that V 53).
ParlaMint-DK_20160503221614	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. That is now part of the negotiations. Then we start with the rapporteur's round, and that is Mr. President. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503221638	Thank you. Now it has been said a few times, and I think we all agree that there is a lack of perspective for the peace process and that the tensions in the West Bank between the Palestinians and Israel are considerable. It says, among other things, that: on the continued expansion of Israeli settlements, not least around East Jerusalem, the extensive restrictions on the freedom of movement of Palestinians, the use of large rural areas in the West Bank for settlement roads, training areas for Israeli security forces, nature reserves, etc. also helps to limit freedom of movement, as does the Israeli control of security enforcement and planning processes in the large area of C with the demolition of Palestinian buildings, the limited follow-up to the use of violence, extensive use of administrative detention, etc. helps make things difficult. On the other hand, it must also be said that there are a number of internal Palestinian conditions which make the process difficult. This applies to the division between PLO/Fatah on the one hand and Hamas on the other. It must be noted that Fatah is today uncertain about their support and Hamas can fear for their power base in Gaza, which has led to a growing democratic deficit, a lack of parliamentary and presidential elections and a legislative assembly that has not worked for nearly ten years. In addition, the European Union has noted that in the Palestinian region, the democratic space has been reduced by complaints about arbitrary detention, torture and abuse, communications about violations of freedom of expression and assembly, etc. These are all things that make it so difficult and somehow so depressing. I fully agree with both the Minister and the author of the motion, Mr President. Holger K. Nielsen in that the situation must be softened, then dialogue must be re-established, and the political leaders, both in Israel and in the Palestinians, must show the courage and the willingness to compromise that is needed. In fact, I fully agree with the Minister that Denmark alone cannot do anything. We may be able to exert pressure through the European Union or other international organisations, for Israel to cease its settlement policy, and for the Palestinians to build the necessary state structures, public administration, to fight corruption, etc. It's relatively pointless to see the end of this conflict and see that it should succeed. I have to say, frankly, that we must be very optimistic if we believe that the initiatives which are leading to a solution to the conflict at least in the foreseeable future. Nevertheless, it should not be short of calls and the push that we can give in the right direction, and the Social Democrats support the text of the adoption as it was previously read out by the author of the motion for a resolution Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503222004	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503222020	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for raising the question. Although there is no conflict in the world that has so much attention and is so frequently described, there is no conflict that is so myth-defeated. Now take the role of the West Bank and Israel there, which we are going to discuss today. Israel is now referred to as almost per year. spinal reaction as occupying power and thus categorized as the Germans in Denmark and Norway in the 1940s or Soviet citizens in Hungary in the 1950s. An illusion has been created that Israel has marched in and taken power in a free and independent state, Palestine, rather than recognising that the situation in the West Bank is quite different, that the situation is legally incalculable. It cannot be soberly established what is right and what is wrong, why everything can only be decided by agreement between Israelis and Palestinians. And if the Danish Government does not recognise and acknowledge this, the possibility of mediation in the dispute will no longer exist. The Swedish Government has thus completely played out its possible role. Israel, for its part, claims that a piece of land is being held on the West Bank in an area where no peace has yet been reached between former enemies and thus no defined or recognized borders have been established. In contrast, Israel's opponents claim that Israel's presence on the West Bank is illegal under international law. So both sides are constantly using legal arguments, but in this conflict I do not think that leads anywhere. The two sides must find out politically. The territories alone are regarded as what is known in English as 'disputed areas', i.e. areas of dispute, since there are two parties who claim virtually the same area. By the way, this is a situation which the world has seen thousands of people throughout history. So you can have political perceptions of what is right or what is wrong in this complex conflict. And I would like to see a recognition that the matter is politics and only politics. It will only become international law and law at the moment when the two sides reach agreement on where the borders should be. Both sides have indicated their desire to establish a new Arab state, Palestine, in the West Bank and Gaza. So let's make this the starting point. This is where I think we are, among other things. in Denmark's parliament should have the main task of helping the two parties to find out together. We are doing this by eagerly supporting all the fields in which Palestinians and Israelis work together, and only in future to support these areas of cooperation. Moreover, I can assure you that there are a great many areas where good cooperation between Israelis and Palestinians is taking place right now and here, perhaps not exactly during this night hour. The two parties have areas where they work together, where they support and help each other find new areas of cooperation. I believe that our task here, rather than constantly condemning one side and the other side, and constantly whip on what is required, is to support existing and new areas of cooperation. In my view, this should be the only task of Danish aid and diplomacy in the conflict and, in my view, the Danish cash flow should be channelled there alone. That should be the new solution. That is why, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I put forward the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to support any action that underpins the existing cooperation between Israelis and Palestinians in areas such as culture, sport, archaeology, infrastructure, food and supply, industry, labour market, education and social and health efforts, as well as the Government is encouraged to encourage the two parties to further cooperation. • V 54). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503222532	The proposal for adoption is also part of the debate. Then there is one brief comment from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503222537	Sir. Søren Espersen's remark is not surprising in this way, and I am not sure that he may be influenced by what I think about the settlements and settlers, etc. But don't make that impression on Mr. Søren Espersen was interviewed with Gillon, the former Israeli ambassador to Denmark and former head of intelligence in Israel, in Jyllands-Posten the other day, where he says that the occupation is the worst thing that ever happened to the state of Israel? He compares the settlers with Hamas and says directly that they are as extreme in their approach as Hamas is, and are as dangerous for the whole peace process and for moving forward as Hamas is. Don't impress me, sir. Søren Espersen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503222633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503222634	Yeah, I read the interview with Carmi Gillon. What he didn't say was, what do you do? In other words, when it is said that the West Bank is occupied and there are Israeli soldiers everywhere in the West Bank and also Israeli guarding the borders into Jordan, it is the Israeli army and police force that is now carrying out law and order or attempting to do so in the West Bank. What would happen when they no longer maintain order? So who's gonna do it? The Palestinian police force has not proved itself to be that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503222719	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503222721	But it is, of course, a question of whether you are willing to create the foundations of a future state. It is certainly true that there are many problems in Fatah and with the Palestinian authority. I think everyone agrees that there is, and that it is not very well functioning, not very democratic. There are many reasons for this. One of them is that many of the people who could make a difference are in Israeli prison. That is one of the reasons for it, but also incompetence and corruption.I am involved in that and internal disputes between Fatah and Hamas. But sir... Søren Espersen does not see that it is in the interest of the Israeli State that the moderate Palestinians, if I may say so, should be granted the concessions that make them legitimate in relation to a population that gets angry and angry?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503222821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503222822	The tragic thing is that large parts of the Israeli population, who were previously involved in this conflict with the Palestinians, are in fact virtually indifferent. We also saw this and heard it from some of the observers on our tour down there: what interests the Israelis now is their cooperation with other Arab states, the maintenance of good relations with Egypt, Jordan, etc., and perhaps even to be involved in a post war in Syria. And that is because what engages the Israelis and can help them solve these problems is that security must be in order. That is what matters to the Israelis. It has begun to be secured, and it may have been largely achieved, and therefore there is the lack of commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503222912	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503222917	I've heard it before from Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen, that it is called disputed areas, but when the countries of the world meet in the United Nations, there is no disputed areas, because then there is agreement that it is contrary to international humanitarian law to move one's own population into an occupied area. I would like to hear: does it not make any impression at all when the countries, and not just a small majority, but in fact virtually all countries vote year after year for the resolutions that are being made which require Israel to withdraw from the West Bank? I believe that it is only the United States and Israel and a number of smaller states which are economically very dependent on the United States to vote against those resolutions. Or are all countries in the world but just a few quite wrong marched after Mr. Søren Espersen's opinion?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503223015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503223017	Now it is not necessarily the case that just because there is a majority that thinks it is right. I believe, moreover, that the Enhedslisten often experiences in this Parliament the feeling that it is not certain that this is the case. I would say that the illusion is created by the fact that there should be a law banning what is happening in the West Bank, but the UN is not a legislative assembly and, whether there are never so many countries claiming it, it is not certain that it is true. There are large and talented lawyers, including the Israeli side and the United States, who do not agree with that interpretation. So, no, the UN General Assembly has no legislative authority and power, and that is why it is not necessarily something that is illegal. In order for something to be illegal, there must be a law that has been violated and that law does not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503223114	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503223117	Now, instead of saying legally or illegally, I usually say that this is contrary to international humanitarian law, because international law is something that we think is a good thing. So the fact that there are certain limits to how best we can be at war and so on. I myself am delighted to read the new publication of the Red Cross, which they have published together with the Jurist and Economist League, after the last conference discussing international humanitarian law. I mean, is it when it suits us that it's okay to have some rules and regulations and when it doesn't suit us? Søren Espersen and Israel are not to be expected to do anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503223158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503223159	We are again discussing the legal issue, and that is where I think we are going absolutely wrong. This is a political discussion. It is a political matter to get the two parties to come together. We can beat each other in the head with all kinds of conventions, the Balfour Declaration, and what came after 1947, 1949, 1967 and 1973, but it just doesn't lead anywhere. If there is no political will for this between the two parties, then it will not happen, and then we can sit here in the Folketing in ten years' time and have exactly the same discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503223236	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. We move on to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen for the Left
ParlaMint-DK_20160503223251	Thank you. There is no doubt that this is a real, really important issue that the SF raises here. For the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is the focal point of much of the unrest in the Middle East today. However, the conflict has also been one, we should call it the convenient excuse for the region's ills for many of the Middle East's despots. If everything else has failed, it has been a sure seal to blame one of the few democracies in the Middle East, Israel. For many years, with various international constellations and in various formats, attempts have been made to bring the parties to the negotiating table to ensure a lasting peace between the two peoples living in an area the size of Jutland. It is well known that this has not been easy. Stubbornness on both sides is overwhelming. In fact, since 2014 there have not been any real negotiations between the two parties in the conflict, and there is little evidence of a thaw. On the contrary, violence has been increasing. The Palestinians have attacked civilian Israelis with a knife, after which the Israeli security forces have responded again. It is essential to remember that the attacks are not sanctioned by self-government, but are committed on their own. Until the end of March, the UN reported that 30 Israelis and 200 Palestinians had been killed in these acts of violence. Denmark, together with the EU, condemns the attacks and the rising spiral of violence. In order to avoid further escalation, it is essential to respect the principles of necessity in the use of force. Despite the sharpening situation, the parties have to come to the negotiating table and relaunch the peace process. This is in the clear interest of both parties. Further security measures and attacks do not solve the fundamental problems which are the reason why the conflict continues one decade after another. As you know, the SF wishes to receive answers to this question as to what the government should do to bring the parties to the negotiating table, and the answer to that is that Denmark cannot do much on its own to bring the parties together. Therefore, Danish policy is also pursued within the framework of the EU's foreign policy. When we speak of a united European Union, we have an opportunity to put pressure on both parties in the conflict, whereas Danish only will be a blow in the air. In order for the European Union and others to try to get involved in the peace process in any way to make sense, it is necessary that there is a willingness on both sides to find peaceful solutions. The overall prerequisite for establishing a basis for peace is for Israel to put an end to the illegal settlements. They undermine the possibility of a two-state solution, while at the same time the settlements have major consequences in the daily lives of the surrounding Palestinian communities. Following this, Israel must also take concrete and tangible initiatives to improve the framework for the Palestinians' everyday lives, both in the West Bank and in Gaza, for example, in relation to a greater degree of freedom of movement. On the other hand, it must of course be the case that Hamas and other armed groups in Gaza are demilitarised, so that the launch of rockets against Israel and its inhabitants is stopped. Of course, the Israelis cannot live with this eternal fear, and Israel has a perfectly legitimate right to defend itself against these cowardly attacks. It must be the case that both sides must show an interest in moving forward in the peace process. When that is the case, there is no doubt that the international community is more than prepared to assist with all possible help and support in this process. So in those words, the Left supports the broad proposal for adoption that has been put forward. I should also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that, unfortunately, they cannot be here, but that they also support the proposal for adoption. And may I not congratulate the broad cooperation that I think there has been about this proposal for adoption. I think that is really, really important, not least on a sensitive matter, as this is absolutely. So I think we should all clap on our shoulders here at just over 10:30.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503223738	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503223746	Thank you to the SF for raising the important debate on Israel and Palestine. It does indeed say what we can do about the situation in the West Bank, but it is the whole spectrum that we are going to talk about. The conflict has lasted far too long, it has been there, almost as long as I have lived. The conflict is like Mr. Holger K. Nielsen said asymmetrical, and that means that it is a very, very well-equipped large and strong military state against, as the Left rapporteur said, some who are armed with knives. This is so asymmetrical and asymmetrical. And I believe that responsibility is also, necessarily, asymmetrical. Israel and Palestine cannot solve the conflict alone, however much we would like them to get together and sit around a table. They're getting farther and farther apart. The conflict has strengthened the intransigence of both sides. In fact, we have gone all the way to the extremes of both communities and found the people who have the least ability and the desire and the will to negotiate a peace, because it has looked so hopeless that, when they vote, people vote for very, very extreme forces. It is difficult to see a middle class and, for that matter, a middle party in Israel gradually, let alone the peace wing we had in the old days. Israel is the possessor, in which I fully agree with Mr Tugendhat. Holger K. Nielsen. They have occupied the West Bank and have, in violation of international humanitarian law, established the West Bank. I don't think I need to read out the whole chapter for Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen, who says that it is a little relativistic when to use international law. It says directly that it is forbidden to transfer parts of its own civilian population to a territory occupied, and it is also forbidden to deport people, as was done in 1948. It is a responsibility that Israel has laid upon itself and thus added to the goodwill that was incredibly widespread when I was young. There we were thrilled with everything that happened in Israel. Nor do I think that they follow the principles of proportionality, that is to say, with ten eyes for each eye, that which, with ten teeth for each tooth, is completely insane, it is as if revenge is the most important thing when Israel responds back. In addition to that, I would like to remind you that there are 8,000-9,000 political prisoners in Israeli prisons, including a large number of children, that is also contrary to all international rules. The United Nations, the European Union and others with influence must, of course, interfere. And every year the United Nations adopts a resolution that has gained more and more support, and Israel is increasingly isolating itself in this conflict instead of trying to reach out and find some allies and some friends. However, it is important that we interfere, it is important that we demand the negotiation and withdrawal of the settlements and the reconstruction of Gaza. It's crazy that in 2014 it was war, and you haven't really started rebuilding the houses, the hospitals and the schools that Israel bombed. It should be Israel who pays for the ravages they created in the last Gaza War. It cannot be that we must support all the destruction that Israel is doing in that area. It is the case that it creates immense frustration among young people, and of course it also creates fear in both places, but we have to work to ensure that the best forces in both areas come together, and that these are the ones we support. We must also inspire it. If we do not do so, fear and a new escalation of conflicts and thus more hopelessness and more frustration and more violence will be the consequence. And it's really, really far back to just seeing the contours of what you dreamed of in Oslo. If Israel as a strong party does not want to take an initiative, I myself believe that every effort should be made to support the growing movement called BDS, i.e. Boycutt, Divestment, Sanctions, towards Israel. This is the only option, and I think that Denmark can make a great effort, the European Union can make a great effort, and the United Nations can make a great effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503224247	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503224252	That is because I would just like to talk about what the rapporteur has said, namely that Israel is isolating itself. That is not quite correct. Israel has never been so committed to external engagement; Israel now has fantastic new relations with Egypt, with Jordan, even with Saudi Arabia, with Russia, the Eastern European countries, Turkey and India. So, Israel is so opening up to the outside world minus Western Europe. That's what this is really about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503224328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503224330	I don't recognize sir. Søren Espersen's explanations. When I look at the UN General Assembly, Israel and the United States are totally isolated on this issue. I have had long discussions with Israelis, among others. the former ambassador, who agreed with me that this is a problem for Israel. It is a problem for Israel that they have put themselves in this situation. The biggest problem for Israel, when thoughtful Israelis discuss with one, is the occupation, it is the settlers in the West Bank. And everyone recognises that this is the big cornerstone of the problem that we need to resolve. I don't recognize sir. Søren Espersen's picture of an Israel allying with others. Israel has created a course of confrontation and gives no hope to the Palestinians in the way they conduct politics at the moment. The Israelis have a government that is so sectarian.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503224426	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503224430	But that's not what we're talking about right now. So, my point is that Israel, by virtue of the sanctions which, among other things, have been imposed. Europe has helped to make, look for other markets, and contacts are being made on a large scale. So, I would ask the rapporteur to go home to read it and then see what has actually been opened up by new relations, including with Israel and the neighbouring Arab countries. I have mentioned some of them, and I could also mention others. That's the truth. When we impose sanctions, only ourselves will be affected. Israel will find other markets, and they are in full swing with that. So it is an illusion to believe that Israel is isolating itself. Israel has not been as open to the outside world since the 1960s, when people were very committed to the continent of Africa as they are now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503224520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503224522	There is a world different from being isolated politically and acting. It is possible that Israel is dealing with many people other than Europe, and I am not going to reject that, but I would say that the movement called the BDS movement is growing in quite a number of countries, even outside Europe, because everyone can see politically that this is a crazy situation where there is a party, a party that has the main duty of initiative, and that is Israel. Whether you want to get around that by talking about something else is quite okay, but that is the main problem, that is to say, that we need Israel to react and that we need Israel to understand that they have the main responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503224602	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503224612	When you hear the series of speeches by the rapporteur in this important debate, which we must thank the SF for having travelled, it says a little bit that it is fantastic that we have been able to agree on a joint motion for a resolution on all the parties of the Danish Parliament except the Danish People's Party. This says a little about Danish political culture, contrary to some of the culture that exists between the two parties involved in the dispute that we are discussing this evening. The Israeli-Palestinian relationship has evolved from bad to worse over the years. Many attempts have been made to implement political agreements and there have been numerous collapses. The conditions for the civilian population on both sides know we are quite terrible. The Israelis fear terrorist attacks and have a legitimate right to defend themselves; the Palestinians are subjected to illegal settlements and what I think we can call the silent harassment, which is not always so quiet at all. Where does that lead us? Yes, for us to see within the Liberal Alliance to confirm that peace, freedom, democracy and, above all, mutual respect for coexistence are not something that can be created from outside the parties involved must assume responsibility for themselves. They themselves must sit down at the negotiating table and they must find the necessary compromises. In the Liberal Alliance, we support a two-state solution, not because we really think it is best. The best would be a united, peaceful Israel with mutual respect between the various communities. There is just nothing at all to suggest that it has any time on earth. Top politicians on both sides of the conflict are steep, but fortunately something is happening under the radar. And so I would like to say that I really have a great deal of sympathy for the Danish People's Party's proposal for adoption, which welcomes and supports all the areas where Israelis and Palestinians work together under the radar in the fields of health, education, food, industry, research, etc. I myself have been on several occasions in Israel and have just experienced how incredibly life-affirming and hopeful it really is to meet the places where you cooperate, where you simply can't wait any longer for the big political scene to find out yet again nothing to do. I really think that is the hope that we must support everything we can. However, we cannot vote in favour of two proposals for adoption. That is why we support the second proposal for adoption, which the majority of the political parties support. We are simply doing so because we also want to point out that, for us, it is completely unacceptable with the settlement policy being pursued, just as it is unacceptable that there should be a culture whereby the terrorist attacks by the Palestinian side do not stop either. Both are counterproductive in finding a definitive solution to the conflict, but actually counterproductive in relation to the positive things that, after all, take place under the radar. At the moment, developments are in fact only going the wrong way. I think that when you visit Israel at the moment, you also get the feeling that the young generation, and that is to say both the young generation of Palestinians, but also the young generation of Israelis, are about to leave the area because they want a life of freedom and simply do not trust that the politicians who are theirs on both sides of the conflict have the will and the ability to find solutions. You also find that something is going on that you can almost call a birth race, that is that it is about who can have the most children. And these children must then be brought up to stand firmly in a conflict that has already been blocked. So there's not much hope to see. There is the hope that the Danish People's Party points to in its proposal for adoption, namely that after all there is cooperation under the radar. We must support all that we can, but we also believe that it is very important to point out that, for us, it is totally unacceptable that there are things going on both in terms of terrorism and in terms of settlements and in terms of harassment, which continue to put stones in the way of a genuinely lasting political solution to the problems. So the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption, which all parties, apart from the Danish People's Party, support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503225107	Thank you to Mrs Mette Bock. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503225116	Thank you. The situation in the West Bank and in Israel and Palestine in general is worrying. We are not in a completely new situation, but right now we are witnessing the effects of many years of occupation, settlement policy, spirals of violence and yes, a flawed and unambitious diplomatic negotiating line. The alternative supports the two-state solution, including, of course, the establishment of a viable and coherent Palestinian state and the right of both peoples to live in peace, freedom and security. This requires us to take stock of the situation on the occupied West Bank and then to act on the analysis we are carrying out. Next year, the Israeli occupation enters its 50th year. It is simply unacceptable that an entire population should live under occupation for generations. We must do even more internationally to launch a political process which, based on the principles of international humanitarian law, can bring peace, equal rights and, above all, the Palestinians a state and national self-determination. Today, over half a million settlers live on occupied Palestinian territory. We are witnessing a demographic war. There is no doubt that settlements constitute a flagrant breach of the Geneva Conventions and are a barrier to peace. The occupied West Bank is also filled with military infrastructure, checkpoints, fences and walls which make it impossible for the Palestinians to have a normal day-to-day life. Israel's policy of occupation affects civilians who, year after year, have to live under oppressive conditions, not to mention the desperate situation in Gaza after years of war and ten years of blockade. At the same time, Palestinian autonomy is moving harder and harder towards its own people. This applies both to the Hamas regime in Gaza, but also to the Fatah dominated autonomy in Ramallah. That development is very worrying as it contributes to a separation between the Palestinian people and their representatives. Democratic elections are needed in Palestine and, with an inclusive approach, we should support the implementation of a comprehensive democratic election throughout Palestine. At the same time, last year we have seen an escalation of violence and the number of terrorist attacks on civilians. Both Palestinians and Israelis, often settlers, have been perpetrators, and we have seen severe punishments from the Israeli military. Escalation is, of course, deeply saddening in itself and all attacks on civilians must be condemned, but, unfortunately, developments are also symptomatic of the hopeless situation of everyday life, especially for those living under occupation. For if we are to be honest, unfortunately there are not many bright points or much hope ahead of those who live with the conflict in the day-to-day lives. Israel's Prime Minister, Netanyahu, said in the election campaign last year that he did not want a Palestinian state. Among the Palestinians, internal divisions continue to exist both politically and territorially, making a common Palestinian strategy difficult, so there is such a need for external pressure and facilitation. Not least because the Government's Foreign Minister, Taksøe-Jensen, has just announced that he recommends that Denmark withdraw from its bilateral commitment to the Middle East peace process and seriously questions Danish aid to the West Bank and Gaza, we need to actually choose to support this process. Specifically, I am also concerned about a number of more specific trends. That is, for example, the case. the destruction of Danish-funded and EU-funded aid projects. Recently, we have heard several reports on an increase in the number of destruction of aid projects and emergency aid financed by the European Union. The figures for 2016 are already significantly higher than for the whole of 2015. Developments in West Bank area C are also a source of great concern. Right now, the expansion of settlements and the establishment of Israeli production zones in area C are going very fast. So it is territories occupied by Palestinian territory that are under Israeli military control. At the same time, it is in Area C that the Palestinians have some of the most difficult conditions. A violently accelerating number of the Palestinian house is being demolished by the Israeli military. According to the UN, in 2015 Israel made 540 and until now in 2016 515 complete or partial destructions or confiscations of structures, homes, stables or solar panels. In addition, the fact that you live in area C does not allow you, as a Palestinian, to rebuild your property. The demolitions are inextricably linked to the settlement policy and constitute a systematic violation of international law and constitute a gross violation of private property rights. The Danish Government, together with the rest of the European Union, should put more pressure on Israel to immediately put an end to the policy pursued in Area C. The UN has called for this in particular on several occasions, and I agree: why should we openly accept that the base of a Palestinian state is being undermined? As a minimum, we should do even more to ensure that neither Denmark nor the EU countries contribute financially to the settlement project. In other words, we must refrain from public procurement and investment in settlements and ensure that the current labelling system for settlers' goods is implemented consistently and effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503225655	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503225703	Thanks to the SF for raising this debate again, one unfortunately has to say, because this is a discussion we have had before. And although the whole of the Israel-Palestine conflict has been a little shadowed by the even worse conflict in Syria in recent years, it has unfortunately not gone away, and it is also to some extent a caries that bite and which continue to bite throughout the Middle Eastern inferno. Therefore, there is good reason to think continuously about how Denmark can best contribute to trying to get the parties to come together. To put it briefly, the situation, as we radicals see it, is such that Israel currently does not have the will for peace and that the Palestinians do not have the capacity for peace. This is a tragic situation which I would like to clarify a little. As we see the situation in Israel at the moment, there is no question of Israel's right to protect itself and to provide its own security. However, with the settlement policy currently being pursued by the Israeli Government, it is unfortunately undermining the opportunity day by day to have the two-state solution and a peaceful relationship with the Palestinians, which in the end is the only thing that can bring lasting peace to Israel. Several of the rapporteurs have already described what is happening in the West Bank. It is not dignified, nor is it future-oriented in any way whatsoever. Both the confiscation of EU projects, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist explained in detail, and the daily attacks on Palestinians benefit no one. It should of course be borne in mind that while it is often said in Israel that it is the wall that provides Israel with security, the reality is that it is the control and security of Palestinian self-government that ensures that things do not get onto the Israeli side. If the Palestinians were one day to let go of that security control, that wall would hardly help much. That is why continuing to press the lemon on Palestinian self-government is not a strategy which will also benefit Israel's security in the long term, apart from the fact that it is quite unfair to the Palestinians. That is why it is difficult to understand Israeli policy. Now there are many governments in the world that are hard to understand at the moment, but the Israeli Government is also hard to follow, that is, what is the plan for the future at the moment. It's very hard to see. If we look at the Palestinian side then, unfortunately, the situation is close to chaos. In fact, these are two different Palestinian territories with very different political ideologies, very different views on what the strategy should be, including with regard to Israel, and very different situations, in addition to being completely physically separate. The situation is that there has not been a democratic election for a very long time. Both the West Bank and Gaza are suffering from corruption and a lack of democracy, and there is a need to intervene in the Palestinians and to ensure that elections are held, that there is a representation of the Palestinians that can cover the whole area, both the West Bank and Gaza, and a legitimate government that can be a worthy counterpart in the negotiations with Israel. It is also a necessity if we are to have peace in the region. Then you can ask yourself what you can do on the Danish side to promote it. There it is my very clear conviction that what we can do is, in particular, something through the European Union. For Denmark alone bilaterally does not have the opportunity to do great things. It is only if, overall, the European Union puts pressure that it really does something. But here, on the other hand, I think that Denmark could try to play a role. I have also participated in a number of ministerial meetings on this issue, and I am well aware that finding common EU ground on this issue is not an easy task. There are, to say the least, very different views, and Denmark is probably somewhere in the middle, if you can put it that way. But now the Foreign Minister himself mentioned the French conference, which is also an initiative in which I see a certain perspective and which we look forward to with excitement. I would really like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he had the opportunity to reply to that, how the other EU countries view the French conference. Some of the things the French, among other things. I do not know whether this is still the case with the new Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I would like to see the issue of the recognition of Palestine being so slightly lurking in the background, if I may say so, up to the conference and being something of a map you can draw on yourself, i.e. as a joint EU decision. I am a little interested in the Danish Government's attitude, because I personally believe that if you are to use the credit card, it should be in an EU context and not in a bilateral context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230236	Thank you to the rapporteur. And at the last minute a request was made for a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230244	I would like to ask the rapporteur something. Because I am surprised that on some issues it is absolutely essential that we go alone and not wait for the European Union and not wait for others. For example, when the United States arrives... Asks whether we want to go to war and things like that, then it has to be bilateral, or it is a group of willing countries etc., but in this question you almost always get the answer from a number of parties in here that we can hardly do anything. The same does not apply when we look at our neighbors. In Norway, they are hugely offensive in facilitating peace and conflict solutions around the world. At the moment they are working hard, and they are doing so in the second and third years of Colombia, and are actually about to succeed in finding a peace solution. There are also other countries where you try to walk on both legs. What is the reason why we have to play the passive role in helping to solve conflicts and saying that other countries have to do so? I don't quite get it. Is it because we don't have the capacity or the ability or have no understanding of it? Or why?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230346	With all the respect that I can draw from Norway's efforts to facilitate a peace process in the Middle East, it is unfortunately said that Norwegian efforts are not going so well either. Nor has the American effort gone well, or, to say the least, with any of the efforts that have been made, unfortunately. When we stress that the European Union is acting together, it is because there are 135 countries that, as far as I remember, have recognised Palestine in such a unilateral way, and it has not really moved anything either. So I believe that if you're going to play that card, it has to be with a certain weight, and I believe that that weight can only be patterned by a single European Union. So that is the reason for it. If I ever believed that it could move something on the ground, I would support it, but unfortunately I only think it can if it becomes part of a single EU decision. I think, moreover, that it would be exciting if the Minister for Foreign Affairs could also comment on the fact that the initiatives taken by the European Union with labelling schemes, which are also being considered, in relation to the illegal settlements, not against Israel as a country, but against the settlements, are one of the things that actually works.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230455	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230457	Yeah, I agree, but things start somewhere. After all, when 135 countries have unilaterally recognised Palestine, it has started with a decision in a country where it has been said that you take responsibility and then you recognise it. And so have we in Denmark. Under Mr. Villy Søvndal's term of office we took some initiatives. It was moreover sanctioned by the Radical Left in the government that we went as close to recognising them as we could within the framework that now seemed legal at that time. If the 135 countries had not done anything, it was almost impossible to get the European Union to consider it. If not someone, for example. If Russia is sanctioned because it does not like their actions, then no one is going to get it started.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230541	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230543	I don't think I'm getting much closer on this question. There is never such a solution to suit all the different types of conflict, and until now, unfortunately, there has been no solution that has suited this conflict and which has been able to resolve it. However, I am convinced that if this conflict is to bring the pressure to bear on the parties that is necessary, it will require several countries to do so at once. Nor am I sure that the European Union can solve it alone, but if it is to speak with a sufficiently strong voice, it should be a common EU voice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230613	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230616	Now Mr. Christian Juhl for the recognition of Palestine. I'd like to ask you, sir. Martin Lidegaard to confirm that there is no doubt any of the 135 countries that have recognised Palestine ever become mediators in the conflict including Sweden. Isn't that an opinion too, sir? Martin Lidegaard shares?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230639	Yeah, I think that's a real consideration. It is difficult to be a mediator, because Israel will of course perceive it as having taken a very strong side for one side. On the other hand, I would like to say that I look forward very much to the day I can recognise Palestine. I want to recognise Palestine, but I want it to happen as part of a process that makes it a sustainable state.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230701	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230703	Thank you for that answer. So I would just like to make it quite clear: if Denmark recognises Palestine, are we out of the picture as mediators?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230711	That will certainly make it considerably more difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230713	We thank the rapporteur. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503230727	Thank you for the debate. Thank you for the many speeches that have been made. I think that some might ask if anything new came out of the debate. Did we present any new views? At any rate, I think we presented a number of points of view which showed that there is a very broad circle of parliamentary parties who are united in marking a clear double responsibility in this conflict. It is a double responsibility both towards the Palestinians and the Israelis. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen spoke very well about it from the beginning, where he mentioned the problems of the ways in which Israelis handle access to the labour market, access to freedom of movement and the right to have the right to control their own country. In this context, the Israelis have denied the right granted to the Palestinians in international agreements. The settlements have developed into violent and have developed into a form which makes a sustainable state impossible unless there is a reduction in illegal settlements. On the other hand, as has quite rightly been said, there is the legitimate right of the Palestinians to a life of security, a life of security. I am incredibly in agreement with Mr. Holger K. Nielsen i. I also agree with Mr. Nick Hækkerup, who says that one of the challenges at the moment is that democratic space is being curtailed, that some of the progress that has been made is being reduced, that it is becoming a retrograde step, that the principles and rights that have once been established are not being upheld. It's a huge challenge. It is no secret, and several people have said that Palestinian autonomy has not been free elections for many, many years. It is not a secret, as several people have said, that unfortunately there is a lack of will to combat corruption and the abuse of money. There are some huge challenges. This is a conflict that I see as not a real hotbed of conflict elsewhere, but a conflict that is unfortunately being used in the story that causes discontent and conflict elsewhere. It is not the case that one can say that because there is conflict somewhere, one has the right to do something elsewhere. However, we can clearly see that the conflict between Israel and Palestine is being used in the narratives, in the tales of unfair treatment used to foster the participation of others in conflicts. That is why we all have a huge interest in resolving the conflict. I'm really glad, sir. Søren Espersen said about good cooperation under the radar. I also support the idea that there will be new forms of cooperation. I think it is extremely important to find as many contact points as possible between the Israeli side and the Palestinian side, between Israelis and Palestinians, so that they can learn to live together together and in peace. That is why, in itself, I have nothing against the text put forward by Mr Beazley. Søren Espersen. I just think that there are some things missing, such as the text put forward by the very, very broad majority, which is, after all, the rest of Parliament's parties, is a much more comprehensive and comprehensive text in relation to what the government's position is in the conflict and the options for solutions. That is why, of course, it is the text that we in the government can support. I'll try to fast forward to some of the things that Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentioned. It is the case that France has had several different proposals. They had a proposal at one time that the Middle East Quartet, which has now worked, should be replaced or expanded, so that special countries should be allowed to sit in it. One can guess for oneself who France had thought of should be among those special countries that should have a seat at the table. I was opposed to this, because it would undermine the common position of the 28 Member States of the European Union if the European Union were to sit at the table as a union for membership. Instead of a vote for 28, there is a vote for 28, but there are some who have an extra vote. I have been opposed to this and have spoken openly against it. On the other hand, I am more in favour of the proposal that is now being made to create a consensus to try to push forward, so that all the good forces are working on such a conference, where people are being brought together and where the parties are being brought together for a dialogue, and I hope we can get it further. I also agree that when the European Union moves together, it is more important. I have a very specific example. The fact that a clarification was made, a tightening-up of how to interpret the labelling system for goods coming from the occupied territories, gave rise to a very strong reaction and keen contact with many capitals. It only does because it bothers. If it didn't bother, people wouldn't care and pull on the shoulder and say, "Yes, yes, you'll have to find out for yourself." But it's when we act together that we really have weight in this context. I therefore also fully agree that, in the eyes of the government, there is no need for unilateral recognition of Palestine. We want to see a result of negotiations that makes it possible to establish a common EU recognition of Palestine on the basis of a two-state solution. It must be a two-state solution that guarantees Israel's right to a life of security and guarantees the right of Palestine to have its own independent state as well. Sir. Christian Juhl asks many times if we should not do just like Norway and become a peacemaker nation. See, if you are in favour of international division of labour, you might ask why we should go to Norway in prayers in an area where they are really, really good. Why not, instead of following in the footsteps of others and choosing the areas where we can take the lead and take the hard road by, as you do when you step through high grass, stepping the road flat and easier for others to follow? Denmark does so in a large number of areas. Denmark, for example, does. on the issue of women's rights, on sexual and reproductive health and rights, on combating violence against women in conflict areas, on rape as a means of fighting. We are taking the lead in these areas, and we have a role to play in other countries. I think it is wise for us to choose our role so that we in Denmark can play a particularly leading role instead of trampling at others or alongside others where they do well in advance. It is not because I do not want to put myself in line for a peace prize and make an Israel and Palestine peace solution. I really would like that. It might be nice to get on your resume that you have gotten one that you can polish on the fireplace on your older days, which is long, far out in the future. The thing is, I believe that we will be the longest to be realistic with our options. Our realistic opportunity to make the greatest effort to achieve peace in Palestine and Israel is to work through the EU track. Our greatest opportunity to get a special Danish impression in areas where we can do something is to find the places where we have a special role to play. We have this, as I mentioned earlier, on the issue of equality between women and men. I'd like to thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen for the initiative for the question here. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs who have been active in shaping the proposal for adoption and in ensuring such broad support for a common text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503231544	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503231549	Minister for International Labour Sharing. Why do I constantly propose that we should be better at making peace and conflict resolution? It is because I think it is the finest discipline one can choose when choosing between it and sending the cavalry or bombers, as the modern language calls it. We've decided that's the order. First, we try to create peace and conflict resolution, and then, as the very last means, we use military. It is at least common, normal people's perception of how to use the tools you have. There I do not think anyone is going to go to pray by actively supporting the finest and strongest discipline and not always trash in the tracks of a great world nation when they ask if the bombers can come again. Maybe we could show that we can do something special. We can do something with women, yes, fine, but we should also be able to do something with peace and conflict resolution, just as some countries can. We're hopelessly behind there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503231657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503231658	I hope that the women members of the Enhedslisten Parliamentary Group will listen when Mr. Christian Juhl says it's okay to do something with women. I think it's fine. I even think it is very, very good that Denmark has a special position there. That's a lot more than fine enough. If we are finally to be inspired by Norway, I just have to inform you that Norway had a very long discussion yesterday about how to contribute further by sending special operations forces to participate in the conflict as part of the coalition's efforts to combat ISIL in Syria and Iraq. Therefore, Norway participates in both, i.e. both in a military part and in a peace settlement part. It is well enough elsewhere in the world. I have nothing against peacemaking and peace mediation. I think that would be excellent. I think that would be a good thing, but sir... Christian Juhl makes it sound like it's the only thing you can do in the world. In fact, I believe that involving women more in solving the problems of the world itself will help to create a more peaceful world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503231802	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503231805	I fully agree with the latter and therefore: go ahead with it. But we can extend the palette instead of what we are doing here, both before and after Taksøe-Jensen restricts it to being very, very self-focused, and I am very, very sorry that this is the world we live in. Then I would like to ask a completely different question. Every time we discuss this, there are some who emphasise the Palestinians' right to a state and Israel's right to security. I have said this in the past when we had to make these statements: what is the reason why we cannot say that it is both the Israelis and the Palestinians who have the right to security? The asymmetrical fight in which ten Palestinians are shot every time an Israeli smokes does not work. Everyone has a right to safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503231857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503231859	It is such a political trick that you first make a statement and then ask a question in a different direction, so the answerer has to spend time on both. I do not believe that we have any kind of self-focusing. I believe that if you look at both government policy, Taksøe-Jensen's report and the statements that I, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence, have made afterwards, you will see that we attach importance both to values and interests and interests, in other words, to having a society that lives with human rights, with democracy, with freedom of expression, with gender equality. We do not want to support an asymmetric reaction, but I think that if something is asymmetric, it is the attacks that are being made on Palestinians at the moment. With increasing intensity and increasing use of weapons, especially knives, it is seen as a serious threat to Israel's right to security.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503231952	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503231955	Thank you, Minister. Now that we are discussing the situation in the West Bank, we must also talk about the situation of the people who live there. After all, we in Denmark and the European Union support many different projects. I have just been told that the People's Church's Emergency Aid has recently been confiscated a PV plant worth DKr 130,000, partly financed by Danida funds, and I know that there has been some criticism from the European Union in the past when the Israelis were inside to confiscate various structures set up to help, among other things. Bedouin population, mostly living in the C regions of the West Bank. Are we going to take some new steps in relation to this acceleration of the confiscation and destruction that is taking place, including of things that we are trying, with our aid funds and the European Union's aid funds, to help a local population that is extremely under pressure?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503232055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503232056	I have to say that, unfortunately, we have acquired some experience in dealing with cases of seizure of specific materials. It happens that our embassy makes contact, tries to clarify, has returned any issues it may be. We know this here from the Folketing with a specific computer that was confiscated at some point, and when we clarified the situation about it, it was returned. We're trying to do things like this all the time. I cannot give a specific answer in relation to the specific project on solar cells, but it is the case that we are constantly trying to ensure that the funds we are giving for the reconstruction of Gaza in emergency aid to the people of Gaza are actually also benefiting the people and that our Embassy in Israel has a task that they are doing with great zeal, and I also think that we are very successful.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503232156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503232158	Nor do I expect the Minister to be able to respond with regard to this precise project that has been confiscated, but it is more if there is perhaps a time when we have to react when there is no change in the pattern of reaction that we see in the Israelis, on the contrary, an acceleration in their destruction and fishing of these things that we are going to pay to set up. Should we then start thinking about acting in other ways, perhaps acting a little more violently towards Israel, because it does not seem as if they respect our otherwise competent embassy or the EU representative down there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503232233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503232236	I am always ready to consider whether we can do more to underline our policy, because our policy is that the resources we use to support the reconstruction of Gaza must, of course, go to it. The projects that we support have been assessed and checked in advance to be of such a nature that none of the material we support should be confiscated. So if we can find a way to clarify it further, I am always ready to consider it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503232306	We thank the Minister. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503232325	I would like to thank you for a good and sober debate on this important subject. I would just like to say for the sake of completeness that the Enhedslisten is also behind the proposal for adoption that we made before. I didn't mention that in my speech, but I do now. Then I would like to start by taking an interesting view, as Mr. Christian Juhl was included in his speech, where he said that if you go back in time like that, for example, if we go back in time. If we go back 50 years, we would have had a whole different debate here in the Folketing, a completely different debate. Then we would have had a debate which gave clear support to Israel, which was attacked by the Arab neighbouring countries, a clear sympathy for everything that was in Israel. We are some who remember the 1967 war, how the whole mood was then, also with a Dane as president of the Security Council, Hans Tabor, and how there was a real mood in favour of Israel and the Jews in that conflict. Many Danes went in kibbutz down there. It was like sir. Christian Juhl said, very modern. I myself was down there on the thumb in the early 1970s, while my sister was in kibbutz, several of my friends were in kibbutz, and it was very, very popular to be that. Today, things are quite different. What are we discussing in the Folketing today? This is how to confiscate things that we have supported in the West Bank, including Danish MPs who have their computers confiscated or whatever it is, it may not be so important here, but it is symptomatic that there are quite other things that are being discussed. These are all the problems created by the Israeli occupation. Where Israel was David in 1967 compared with Goliath, Israel is today Goliath in relation to David, namely, the Palestinians in the West Bank. I have sometimes mentioned, when I have spoken to Israeli ambassadors, whether it makes no sense that there has been a change of mood in which there was a distinctly positive attitude towards Israel in the past, when almost today there is a clear negative attitude towards those in whom today's debate has been extremely negative. We have a proposal for adoption which was unthinkable in the past. We need to react in this way if we are to respond in a politically correct and politically wise way, but also in a decent human way. I have mentioned whether it is not a problem for the Jewish state, for Israel, that it is so whether they can see it. That's where it's gonna be a little difficult, because many people can see it. You can read this from Israeli writers, Amos Oz and others, Grossman, and the debate in Haaretz and also people you talk to, but Gillon says it so much interesting in the interview in Jyllands-Posten, where he says: Try to get to the state of Tel Aviv. It is something quite different from Israel. In Tel Aviv you simply live as in a bubble. You are something quite different from Jerusalem and the rest of Israel, which means that in the state of Tel Aviv you turn your back on what is happening around, and that is really a problem. It is as if the Israeli people are going into a cocoon and, like, completely forgetting what is happening around them, refusing to realize it like on the Titanic, where you are heading towards the abyss, but refuse to realize it and celebrate on. This is a problem, and it is actually urgent because the settlement policy is becoming increasingly toxic and increasingly counterproductive, making it increasingly impossible to have a coherent Palestinian state in a two-state solution. More and more settlements must be demolished, more and more things must be destroyed if it is to be linked. Which Israeli government would dare to do so? So it is very urgent. However, as I said, I believe that we can do something from Denmark through the European Union. I fully agree that, in this context, the European Union is extremely important to continue working on, but also on the Danish side. The Danish House is extremely important. There are NGO projects that we support, which are extremely important, where we have to protect them when they are attacked by Israeli authorities, because they do not like those who are, in fact, a lot of opportunities. In the past, there has been a so-called Louisiana process, where Herbert Pundik was behind it and where parties on both sides sat together and negotiated in Louisiana, where, like NGOs, civil society worked better together. I fully agree with that. In other words, there are different options that we in Denmark can continue to work with, and that is why it is important that we maintain our commitment. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503232843	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday 10 May 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503232854	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 4 May 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
