ParlaMint-DK_20161004120001	The meeting is open. Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, honored guests and members. According to section 36 of the Constitution, the parliamentary year runs from the first Tuesday in October to the first Tuesday in October next year, and on that day Parliament will be re-elected as it says. As the Member who has long since been in the Chamber, it is my job to chair the election of the Bureau and Secretaries.
ParlaMint-DK_20161004120106	As chairman, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and Aleqa Hammond (UFG) have stopped Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no other settings available. If no one requests a vote, I shall consider the recommendation as adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161004120110	For the first Vice-President, the Social Democratic Group has appointed Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen. For the second Vice-President, the Left Group has appointed Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. For the third Vice-President, the Enhedslisten Group has appointed Mr. Christian Juhl. And to the fourth Vice-President, the Liberal Alliance group has appointed Mrs Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161004120126	According to the constitution of the constituent electoral federations and the group's recommendation, the following members have been elected: Mrs Karen J. Klint (S), Mr. Benny Engelbrecht (S), Mr. Bent Bøgsted (DF) and Mr. Erling Bonnesen (V). This is what the Constitution says, and I would ask the President to take the chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20161004120143	I would like to thank you very much for the confidence that the Danish Parliament has shown me by re-electing me as President. It's an honor. Together with my colleagues in the Bureau, I will make every effort to share the sun and the wind in the best possible way and to be the chairman and representative of all parties, regardless of party colour. It is my hope that I can lead the work in here in such a way that openness, respect and trust become common denominators. I look forward to a new season with my colleagues in this Chamber and to working with all the talented people who have their daily work at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20161004120254	I welcome our guests today. Welcome to Her Majesty the Queen, to Hans Royal Highness the Crown Prince, to Her Royal Highness the Crown Princess, to Hans Royal Highness Prince Joachim, to Her Royal Highness Princess Marie and to Her Royal Highness Princess Benedikte. Also warmly welcome to the representatives of the Supreme Court, the President of Greenland's Inatsisartut, the President of Greenland's Naalaksusususut and the Chair of the Faroe Islands' Laying and to the Mayor of Copenhagen. I take this opportunity to send Parliament's greetings on this day to Greenland's Inatsisartut and the Faroe Islands' Lating.
ParlaMint-DK_20161004120353	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister to explain to him in the Constitution the general position of the Kingdom and the measures envisaged by the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161004120409	I think it is deep in most of us that our children should feel better than ourselves: a better life, greater hope and fulfilled dreams. That's how I feel, and that's how I met myself in my life. My mother was born in 1936. She grew up in Fresh-Sweet Street in Nexø on Bornholm. It was a time when goods such as telephone or radio were far from being a matter of course and when running water was a luxury. That's it. That's it. That's it. Many graduated from school in the seventh grade. So did my mother. That's it. That's it. That's it. My mother was a housewife most of her adult life. She didn't get an unskilled job until I was ready to leave primary school. Until then, she arranged for homework to be read and for the food package to be smeared. She worked at home while my dad worked outside. It was an ordinary division of labour. I can't believe it wasn't since. My mother never got an education, but she was still the smartest person I've ever known, and she had big dreams. And there was one dream that overshadowed the others, namely that her children had more opportunities than she had had. It was my mother's dream, and she shared it with many in her generation and with many in the generations before. The Danes' dreams are actually the driving force that has brought us forward as people and as land. Generation after generation added their to, not through revolutions, but by laying stones on stones for the possibilities of Denmark, where we provide what we can, where we help, if needed, and where each of us extends as far as the talent goes. Progress is part of our self-understanding. We expect Denmark to be among the richest countries. It may almost feel like a law of nature, but unfortunately it is not. There has been an international financial crisis and recession. We've had a hard time shaking it off. For 10 years, for 10 years, we haven't gotten richer. If Denmark is on the trail while the countries around us are stepping on the accelerator, then generations will miss out on new opportunities, and that must not happen. That is why I have set an ambitious target: Denmark must be 65 billion. kr. richer in 2025. And that is why the government has presented an overall plan for a stronger Denmark which can bring us a long way along the road. Is 65 billion. kr. Just a number? No, it's not. It is possible that we can keep up with neighbouring countries, that Danish young people not only receive a free education, but that they receive an education which is at least as good as their peers in the rest of Europe, that a Danish family can afford a holiday trip of the same standard as a corresponding German family, that there is effective cancer treatment at the Rigshospitalet in Copenhagen at the same level as at the Karolinska University Hospital in Stockholm, so the things that matter in everyday life, the things that matter in life. That is why we need to make progress. I would call for us here in the Folketing to lift the joint responsibility. We may disagree on what it takes to achieve our objectives. Of course we can. That is why we are members of different parties. And if anyone has better suggestions than the government, I'm listening. But if you do not set new goals, and if you say no to progress and development, then I get off. It will break with a long tradition in our people's government that we usually agree on the big, long-term challenges. It is simply a danger that the ambitions will be historically small. Setting high goals also poses a risk. It carries the risk that we will not get there quite, but only almost. But that must never lead us to put the bar so low in advance that we cannot but sneak up on it. Since our parents grew up, Denmark has undergone enormous development: more prosperity, better education, greater freedom for the individual. And we can't stop here. I have dreams for my children. You have dreams for your children. We do not meet these with a fingertips or with one easy-to-use solution. A stronger Denmark is the picture drawn from many suggestions combined. We have to deliver a Denmark to the next generation that is stronger than what we took over ourselves. We owe it to both our parents and our children. So the commitment to the next generation is one reason why we must act now. Denmark needs a comprehensive plan. The second reason is international. Our little spot on the globe, Denmark, is one of the happiest, one of the quietest. But the world around us is worried. To the east, an aggressive Russia. To the west, a British people voted out of the EU. To the south, wars and conflicts that have consequences for us. Terror, refugees, instability. A lot of people are worried, and I understand that. If many people feel that the possibilities are few, then the community is put to the test. Fear grows, distrust grows. But in a complex world like the one we live in, we must not be tempted by simplistic solutions. Simplified solutions are just too simple. Denmark is part of the world for good and evil. And our answers must relate to both. We should not act out of fear. But we must certainly not be afraid to act. We need to take precautions. We need to upholster the economy. We need to think about the future. We must take care of Denmark. I am proud that Denmark is one of the countries that takes the greatest responsibility in the fight against the terrorist movement ISIL. I'm proud of brave men and women who make it possible. Thank you. Thanks to all of Denmark's senders. I am also proud of our long traditions of shipping and trade. Denmark has, if any, benefited greatly from international trade. We have a strong interest in working with the outside world. We must insist that greater visibility gives more insight. That greater vision, more insight makes us wiser in the world on which we are completely dependent is part of the Danish remembrance. It's part of our self-image. If we build walls to shut others out, we'll lock ourselves up, and we can't live on that. So our task is to make progress at the same time and to hold on to who we are. We must take care of our free, rich and harmonious country, as we know it, as we know ourselves. Our security and our prosperity are closely linked to Europe. If things go badly for our neighbours, things are going badly for us, and that is why we need to look after Europe. European cooperation cannot just continue as before. There is scepticism among the people, and we must take this seriously. I have said this for a long time and today most of my European colleagues share that view. However, we must not just blame the European Union for all the problems either. We ourselves have a responsibility to make cooperation work. We have a strong interest in it. Europe today is richer than ever. Several Europeans live in freedom. We act, we study, we work across borders like never before. This is what Danish companies earn their money from. That is what provides jobs. That is what has created and created our prosperity. This is not least due to the commitment of cooperation within the European Union, which is why we must safeguard European cooperation, and we must change what does not work. We need practical and sensible cooperation which focuses on the tasks that can only be solved together and which do not interfere in all sorts of things that the Member States can do better themselves. I and the government will be working for an EU that is relaunching growth............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And here it is absolutely crucial that the Danish police continue to work closely with their European colleagues and continue to have access to the necessary data in the fight against serious crimes. The government is working hard to get a Danish special agreement on Europol • an agreement that guarantees Danish police the same operational opportunities as today, because in an uncertain world we must take care of Denmark. We do this best in cooperation with others, with the European Union and NATO. But we also need to do more ourselves, and that is why more money must be invested in the police, in the defence and in the preparedness for action against terrorism. There must be more resources for those who look after us. We will set aside a billion dollars to strengthen national security. It is part of the government's overall plan for a stronger Denmark. Denmark cooperates in Europe and in the world, but there are two countries with which we are particularly attached, and that is the Faroe Islands and Greenland. The Kingdom is a unique community. It is a community based on respect for our diversity. I respect the desire for a constitution of its own to express the identity of the Faroese people, but it is clear that a constitution must be possible within the framework of the Kingdom Community as long as the Faroe Islands are part of the Community. We would like to work for this through dialogue on the Constitution. We are also happy to take part in a dialogue on the economic situation. It is different in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Right now, both countries have good economic conditions, but there are major challenges in the slightly longer term. We propose to support the work of the self-government for children and young people in Greenland, just as we will strengthen efforts for vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. We must be proud of the Kingdom community. We give room for diversity, but we share a common core. This was confirmed at the Kingdom meeting in Greenland in the spring. We have a tradition of finding solutions together that lift us all up. And we must also do this at home: find common solutions that lift us up, lift us up as people, lift us up as a nation. We have a strong basis to build on that commitment. It is now that we can make small changes in time and achieve great improvements. We must return a Denmark to the next generation, which is stronger than what we took over ourselves. That is what is at the heart of the government's overall plan. When the government stepped in, I put four pointers in the areas where it is my ambition to move Denmark, and we have already achieved a great deal. The whole plan will bring us a good deal further. The first point of reference is a realistic and consistent foreign policy. By the time we opened the Folketing a year ago, Europe had gone wrong. Denmark and Europe were in the midst of the refugee and migration crisis, a crisis rooted in deeply complicated conflicts, with potentially even very major consequences for our economy, for our values, for our cohesion as a country and as a people, for our integrity. The government's policy is the expression of a balance. We're realistic. We're tightening up. And we're gonna do it properly. We have helped to shift the discussion in Europe. Now everyone in the European Union is all agreed that we will not again experience the uncontrollable influx of refugees and migrants that we saw last year. The flow of refugees to Greece has been brought down from over 100,000 refugees last August to 3,500 in August of this year. At home, we have implemented necessary austerity and, above all, a new integration benefit, because we believe that it is reasonable and that fewer people should come here. It's worked. We've been slowing down. Last year, tents were erected to accommodate asylum seekers. The tent camps are shutting down again. Last year over 21,000 asylum seekers came to Denmark. This year there are per cent. October 1st came in about 5,000. And currently the number is lower than in any month over the last 5 years. It hasn't been any lower since I was Prime Minister. So now we have to hold on. And that is why we continue to tighten the conditions for those we let in. We will introduce an emergency brake so that Denmark can reject asylum seekers at the border if there is a crisis situation that puts Danish borders under pressure. Because we must not and we will not again experience a situation similar to that of September last year. But it does not cut us off from helping, on the contrary. Denmark is one of only six countries fulfilling the UN Development Assistance objective. We are contributing to a new global target fund to invest billions in better living conditions in developing countries. We are sovereign among the largest relief donors in the world in terms of our size. And now we're doing even more because we can do even more. The government will strengthen the Danish neighbourhood effort so that there will be more money for humanitarian aid than ever before. This is precisely possible because we have tightened the immigration policy because we have introduced the integration benefit. When the cost of asylum seekers falls in Denmark, we can afford to help more people close to home. And to me it obviously makes more sense to help the refugees in Jordan or Lebanon than in Denmark. Denmark provides world-class development aid. We are helping to prevent people from fleeing because of violence and oppression. Denmark has been fighting for human rights for decades. And we have a clear interest in a strong international legal order. We have to hold on to that. But there is a need for a modern understanding of the conventions we helped shape years ago. And that is why we want to look critically at those parts of the European Convention on Human Rights where the interpretation has gone too far. We need to get back to the core. The government is pursuing a realistic and consistent foreign policy. It's my first pointer against a stronger Denmark. My second point is that it should pay better to work. More people have to support themselves. I am convinced that people thrive best by having a job, because it gives a foothold, it gives something to resist, it gives something to stand firm on. I have great respect for all those who each day fit functions that are necessary in our society also those where the salary is at the low end. There must be a fair balance between pay by working hard and what you get by staying at home. Everything else is untenable. That is why we have introduced the ceiling on cash benefits, which is why we have introduced the 225-hour rule. And I know that a single mother on cash benefits can be very tense. I have no illusions that it is easy to be a provider of cash benefits. But the answer is not a higher performance. The answer is, she gets to work. Every time a person takes the step from cash aid to work, it is a social political achievement for herself, for her children. That is why it must be worthwhile to work, and that is why we are moving forward with the second phase of job reform. It is clearly targeted with low incomes. We will introduce a targeted job allowance and a temporary job premium for the long-term unemployed who are going to work. The job premium may be paid for 18 months and may amount to up to DKK 45,000. Then it pays to work. In the government's job reform, we lower the tax on work, some at the top, much at the bottom, and we give the most to the long-term unemployed who get into jobs. We must get the growth that is the whole basis for more and better jobs going, the basis for greater opportunities in our future. That's my third pointer. Today too little investment is being made in Denmark. Today, too much of the Danish business investment is being made abroad. We need more investment in Denmark because otherwise we will slow down innovation and slow down activity and productivity and then we will miss jobs. Therefore, it must be more attractive to invest actively in Denmark. That is why we want to introduce a deduction for new own funds. That is why we want to make an additional deduction for additional investment in research and development. And that is why we want to make it easier for entrepreneurs and growth companies to finance their ideas. Danish companies, Danish investors must have more attractive conditions to show that they are the best. And they are on many points, among others. in the field of green technology and energy solutions. We must maintain that position. We do this with an ambitious climate and energy policy, and so one of the very first proposals to be dealt with by Parliament in this session will be ratification of the agreement of the Paris Summit on Climate Change. However, the green transition must be robust and therefore it must also be realistic. That is why we want to reduce the bill for green energy and, above all, collect the bill in a more efficient way. We are facing a technological development that is storming at a development that is changing our jobs, challenging our companies, which are making great demands on employees at all levels. That's why we want to make it more attractive for highly trained experts, engineers and technicians to work in Denmark. We will set aside billions in a new pool of competences to raise the Danes' competences, that is part of the overall plan. And we address the problem that Danish companies will lack skilled labour in the future. Firstly, together with the trade union movement and employers, we have set a common goal of creating many more internships, especially in those areas where the need for labour is greatest. It has already been agreed in the trialogues, it is in progress. Secondly, we have agreed with the trade union movement and employers that unskilled unemployed people with their full unemployment benefit in the back can receive a training boost so that they can become skilled in the areas where they can get a job. That has already been agreed. The third step will be to improve adult and further training for those in work. We will deal with this in the trialogues of spring. I attach great importance to these matters being agreed with the social partners, employees and employers. We have concluded two strong tripartite agreements because both the trade union movement and employers are able to look beyond narrow self-interests and further into what is in our all interests: jobs, prosperity, opportunities. Thank you. Every generation stands on the shoulders of the previous one. I was born into the Danish welfare society, I grew up in Denmark and, like many of my peers, I became the family's first student, first academic. I am proud to live in a country with free education, safe health, care for the elderly, a modern public sector that exists for citizens and not for itself. So a better core welfare is my fourth point. I think we've all been close to cancer. My own father died of cancer a few years ago. I hope that the people who will be in his situation in the future can live longer. And it is my hope that diagnosis and treatment have constantly improved since we brought the specialties together, invested billions in super hospitals, introduced patient rights, packages of cancer since we put people before the system. More people live longer, and that's good. But a Dane with cancer still lives away less time than a Swede with cancer. And that's not good enough. In cancer plan IV we set the goal that by 2025 survival should be at the level of the best of our Nordic neighbours. It is ambitious, but it is also what the Danes can reasonably expect. We put man before the system. This also applies to people living in nursing homes. They must have more freedom to decide their own everyday life, for it increases the joy of life. It is part of a dignified and secure old age. Childhood must also be safe. The government wants to strengthen the day offers so that our children get a good start to life. The little people must both thrive, develop and be ready for the school. Behind every good experience at the hospital, at the nursing home or in kindergarten there are also people: educators, educators, doctors, labs, nurses, physiotherapists, porters, SOSU assistants and SOSU assistants. You are all doing a great job for others who are deeply dependent on you, and thank you for that. The best thanks we can give you is to make the decisions so that in the future there will also be advice for better health, care for the elderly and other core welfare, and that is why we set aside a billionth of money in the comprehensive plan for a new welfare pool. It is a pool that we build up with money created by the responsible proposals in the plan. And those parties in the Folketing that want to take responsibility must also share in distributing the money. I think that is fair. We manage the citizens' money. We need to do this with care, and we have a series of bound tasks: a green transition based on an exceptionally fragile basis with the PSP, the need to restore confidence in SKAT, which calls for investment, billions of investments in the coming years, new property assessments, a pension system that needs to be more robust. And then we have to invest both in traffic and in digital infrastructure. This requires us to increase the framework, otherwise we can only afford to do what we have already decided, and that is why the government will increase the framework for public investment by a total of around 27 billion. kr. And we can only do that because we increase the room for manoeuvre. So there is work to be done, bills to be paid, and that quite regardless of who is Prime Minister. And if there is to be more money after that when the tied tasks are solved, then more money needs to be in the box. Fifteen months ago, we took over a public economy with many unpaid bills and with a future challenge when the big vintages retire. Significant public deficits await on the horizon if we do not do something. That's why we're doing something. When a broad majority in the Folketing has agreed that the retirement age should be raised in line with life expectancy, and then life expectancy increases more quickly than expected, which is a happy thing, then we ask the Danes who were born from 1958 to 1978 to retire six months later. For everyone else, we're not gonna change anything. For those who are younger, born later, and those who are older, the rules are exactly the same as before, but we are getting money for the welfare of the future. It's responsible. When Denmark has an SU that is probably the world's most generous, we propose to give a little less in scholarships, a little more and better loan opportunities and then an extra job allowance after completing training, no matter what training has been taken, so that young people can get to work well. And then we put some of the saved money into a pool of competence for better education. It's responsible. The government's proposal sums up that we have twice as much money by 2020 as if we let go. It's responsible. And that leaves room for a growth in public consumption of 0.5%. I went to the election for zero growth in public consumption, but the tied tasks cannot wait. We want more than the status quo. And then we find the money instead of sitting on our hands. Others chose something else. Some went to the polls for public growth of 0.6%. a year. 0,5% Or 0.6 percent, 5 percent or 6 percent is it like night and day? Is that the difference between heaven and hell? I don't think so. Is this where the great difference manifests itself in Danish politics? Five thousand or six thousand? No, I guess not. The real difference is whether there is money in the box, whether there is money for the 0.5 or the 0.6%. Because there must be real money behind when we have to solve real problems for real people: new cancer medicine, nursing homes for demented, more continuing education. That is, in effect, what is at stake. If you do nothing to get the money, you have no money to spend, because there are no free rounds. In my very first election campaign to the municipal council 31 years ago, I was really upset because of a few very critical reading letters, and then my smart mother gave me advice: You can't be popular everywhere, she said. I don't think I can be accused of failing to comply with my mother's advice. Some may think that I have followed it equally carefully enough, but as politicians we have to do what we think is right and responsible. We must be careful not to underestimate the Danes. I think they can see through the giftability of politicians. They know we have to make the money before we can use it. This applies to the public budget, just as it applies to families' own. And what matters to the Danes is whether we can meet their legitimate expectations for the future: both that the core welfare works and is up-to-date, and that a Danish family has the same opportunities in everyday life as a family south of the border or on the other side of the Øresund. And that's why I'm not buying the false contrast between welfare and tax relief. The government's policy is both-and-so. We need an overall plan, so we can afford to develop Denmark • jobs, education, better police and preparedness, lower taxes, higher welfare, greater prosperity. In short: ambition on behalf of Denmark. We must also have so much air in the budget that we can set aside a large amount of billions for the future, because we do not want to leave an unpaid bill in the children's room. We would rather set up a child savings fund for the next generation, in fact two: a security reserve for unforeseen expenses and a reserve for the security of the homeowners. The overall plan we have put forward consists of many pieces for a stronger Denmark, but one is missing, and as we have to complete the mosaic, tomorrow the government will put the last piece on the negotiating table. Because it is well known and it has been for a number of years that one of the bound tasks of a task we have inherited is a new assessment system. In many cases, the property assessments we have today are wrong, and then the tax can also get high. There are examples that one's houses are assessed differently, even if they are on the same road. It is therefore insecure for the individual, it is too bad, we must do better. No one can be taxed out of his home. There must be security for the landowners. That is why we will be presenting tomorrow both a new and better assessment system and a new proposal for housing taxation. Today I would like to mention three important elements of the government's proposal. Firstly, it is a new, improved tax freeze. After all, we created the tax freeze in 2001, and we did so with the aim of creating security for the property owners. That was good, but it's turned out to be far from good enough. Total property taxes have increased by 18 billion. kr. Since 2001, despite the tax freeze, many today pay far more in tax than they budgeted for when they bought their accommodation. Some cannot afford to stay in their own home despite the tax freeze. And if we do nothing, if we do not improve the tax freeze, housing taxes up to 2040 will actually increase by another 10 billion. kr. Despite the tax freeze. So it is not enough security • on the contrary. That is why we need a new, improved tax freeze so that property owners have real security. Secondly, we are reducing the tax rates. Overall, the new assessment system will mean higher assessments because housing prices have increased significantly in many places, and if we only introduced new assessments and did nothing else, it would lead to much higher taxes. The government doesn't want that. New assessments should not be a money machine, which is why we want to reduce both the base rate and the property value rate. This means that total housing taxes will be reduced for many years to come, and we can do that because we have money for it with the 24 billion reserve. kr., which we have found room for in the overall plan. Thirdly, we will increase the security of current homeowners. As it is now, many homeowners face heavy frying in the land for many years to come. The increases after 2020, once we have introduced the new system, will cancel. The new rules on housing tax must enter into force when the political agreement on housing taxation expires in 2020. No current homeowners will pay more than the current tax rules, and many will pay less. Tomorrow we in the government will present our concrete proposals, just as before we have invited the parties for a thorough briefing. We want to conclude an agreement on a new, improved housing tax freeze as part of the 2025 negotiations, and I would urge as strongly as I can that we jointly find a solution for the many Danes who live in owner-occupied housing. We have a responsibility to provide security for the homeowners, both for those who own their homes today and for the new generations. We have to solve the problems. We need to strengthen security. We need to make progress. Since last year there have been thousands of new private jobs, thousands fewer on transfer income. We are making progress in all parts of the country. People get to work, get more to stand up to, new hopes and greater opportunities. The flow of refugees has slowed down. Municipalities and regions have more money for health and the elderly. So all in all, things aren't going so bad. But why should we have an overall plan? Can't we just settle for the state of things with the status quo? Or should we rather use a good starting point for • as a forward-looking social democrat once said it • to make good times better? I know what my grandpa would say, and he was... we need to make good times better. The challenges do not disappear because we close our eyes for a while, because when we open them again, they are still there, and they have just grown bigger. The Danes I have met when I have recently been around the country to discuss the overall plan look into the future with both eyes open at the same time. They are not afraid to tell us what concerns them or to take responsibility. And our task here in the Folketing is to give them It is possible that the future will come by itself. But the future we want does not come by itself, it we create together: a freer Denmark, a richer Denmark, a stronger Denmark. I would appeal to the Folketing to have the common ambition, so future generations will say: they did not leave; they dared to come together to make the decisions that made Denmark stronger. Let us begin the new parliamentary year by making a living for our country and for Denmark's future. Denmark live! Three-fold hoorays from the hall
ParlaMint-DK_20161004124722	Thanks to the Prime Minister for the opening statement, it will be debated on Thursday.
ParlaMint-DK_20161004124734	There are then three draft laws: Minister for Finance (Claus Hjort Frederiksen): Bill no. L 1 (Proposal for a Finance Act for the financial year 2017), Bill No. L 2 (Proposal for a Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for state, municipalities and regions for the financial year 2020) and Bill No. L 3 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for state, municipalities and regions for financial years 2014-2017, the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for state, municipalities and regions for the financial year 2018 and the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for state, municipalities and regions for the financial year 2019. The titles of the cases submitted will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 5 October 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
