ParlaMint-DK_20160421100028	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 175 (Proposal for a law on the right of residence). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100047	Mai Mercado has applied for leave from 26 April 2016, cf. I've got lots of things shining up here. Then we have some technical problems. Keep talking. We're trying now. I think it's better. Mai Mercado has applied for leave from 26 April 2016, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100200	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Conservative People's Party in Funens Storkreds, Anders Johansson, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 26 April 2016 on the occasion of Mai Mercado's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100222	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100256	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100330	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100341	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100409	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100423	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100448	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100505	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100530	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100547	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister. We need quiet up there in the gallery!
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100619	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100634	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 101 (S, DF, V, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 8 (LA), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100703	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100724	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. There's a chance to vote on if anyone needs it? I would like to say as a service information that, according to the report, there is a majority in the Committee of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. The vote will end. In favour of 58 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100852	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100919	Amendments to L 140 will be put to the vote first: they will be put to the vote on Amendment No 1. 1-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. The vote will then be taken on the amendments to L 141: if you wish to vote on Amendment No. 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421100959	The debate is open. I repeat, there must be a little calm on the way out of the Chamber, because now we are starting negotiations on L 172. I give the floor to Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101024	Thank you for that, President. Today we are discussing the bill, such as: is about implementing the support schemes for biogas for transport, process purposes in companies and other energy use, which are part of the 2012 Energy Agreement. The prerequisite for its implementation was the approval of the aid schemes in accordance with the new Community guidelines. It has come now, and now we are taking the final step, which we naturally welcome. There are a number of elements in the draft law that are about ensuring that no overcompensation is granted, that is to say, that you do not pay more in aid than what it actually costs. In this context, Energinet.dk must be given the opportunity to assess the production and input costs objectively, and it must of course also be ensured that the companies receiving aid under this scheme can be required to provide the information necessary for verification. Furthermore, the legislative proposal will make it more clear which gases we support by introducing a definition of biogas. I am sure that we will have further discussions in committee, but, as a starting point, the Social Democratic Party of course supports this draft law, which forms part of the Energy Agreement of 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101146	No one has asked for short remarks, and that is why we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, so that is Mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101156	The previous rapporteur already mentioned that the draft law here forms part of the implementation of the energy agreement, which was concluded four years ago between almost all the parties of the Folketing. The Danish People's Party is also included in the energy agreement, and as such we naturally support the bill here. After all, the bill here is a correction of the aid schemes for biogas, which were already adopted by the Danish Parliament back in 2012. The scheme has then been a trip past the European Commission in Brussels, which is after all the great overjudge, when Danish legislation on, for example, support for energy purposes has to be looked at in terms of nails. It is, of course, in itself an arrangement that we in the Danish People's Party are opposed to, namely the fact that the Commission can overrule legislation adopted by a majority in the Danish Parliament. Nevertheless, this is what the system currently looks like. I would say that the most important of the corrections made to the Danish scheme after the Commission has given its opinion is quite good. This means that a mechanism must be put in place to ensure that companies receiving aid for biogas are not overcompensated. After all, it makes sense in itself not to grant more aid than is actually needed, and to ensure a mechanism so that companies are obliged to provide information so that they can see if the compensation is too high. So in these words, I must say that we in the Danish People's Party support the bill here, in that it is part of the energy agreement of 2012 that the Danish People's Party is part of. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101345	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Van der Klaauw. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101353	Thank you for that, President. As I said, there's not much to say about this bill. It is a legislative proposal which is a implementation of the energy agreement. The aid schemes have been under way since 2012. They have now been dealt with and approved. These are aid schemes for biogas for transport, process purposes, heat production, etc. I would just like to add that, of course, the Left also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101420	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101439	After all, the bill is a consequence of the energy conciliation that Enhedslisten is part of, and we will endorse the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101447	Thank you. Nor did it give rise to brief comments, so we go further. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101503	Of course, the Liberal Alliance does not object to managing the definitions of the eligible biogas and to ensuring that it does not over-compensation in the form of huge lucrative rates in this area. But we have a problem with the fact that at a time when we have now reached the 8 billion. kr. in the PRS tax, rather 8,3 billion. kr., and at a time when the Minister is setting all sails to stop the PESO's skies at a safe rate this year, which sets the course at 10 billion. kr. Every year, in the middle of this discussion now launches further efforts which anything else equal can exacerbate the problem. It dares hardly mention that the Minister has even set up a commission to ensure cost-effectiveness. But in here we continue to pass laws that go exactly the opposite way. Both in terms of CO2 reductions when it comes, for example, to CO2 reductions. As far as wind is concerned, many months ago we have achieved the target that we should have achieved by 2020. Our simple proposal is therefore that we suspend this race for the use of public funds until 2020, and that also applies to the coastal mills mentioned in the proposal here, and instead spend the time rethinking energy policy so that we have reduced and phased out this huge subsidy circle. It makes us poorer every day and there is virtually no measurable effect on the environment. This work can start tomorrow. The PSO increases must be stopped and we must have a technology-neutral incentive structure in place so that it does not smell like indirect business support schemes and so that energy policy does not resemble what I have often called Hjallerup Market when it comes to negotiating price increases. We get the best and healthiest business by ensuring general framework conditions that make it cheaper to produce and by stimulating increased research and development rather than pouring tax and consumer-funded operating subsidies into the individual professions on the basis of a planned economic approach. What we are doing here is first to brand-tax consumers and business with billion-dollar energy taxes and then to distribute again to those who shout the loudest. I remember some farmers shouting very loudly in 2012 prior to the energy settlement, and suddenly a check flew into biogas. So for these reasons, we are voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101747	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101754	After all, we are building a renewable energy system in Denmark, and the importance of biogas is increasing and its role is becoming more and more important in this transition to the renewable energy system, and therefore the alternative to the proposal that lies here. We believe it is important to help the biogas on the way. In transport in particular, there are special possibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101819	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur who has asked to speak is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101840	Thank you. With this bill, we are implementing support schemes for biogas for transport, process purposes in companies and for heat production. It is, of course, the implementation of an element of the energy conciliation that we made with a very broad majority in 2012, which has since awaited the European Commission's approval of state aid. That approval is so compromised now, and it allows us to implement this element from the energy agreement. Denmark has undertaken to assess annually whether there is overcompensation of the beneficiaries, and it is difficult to object. This will be the task of Energinet.dk, and the companies will of course have an obligation to ensure that the right and necessary information is available. So with that security, the Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101934	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421101941	Thank you, President. Let me start by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. As can be seen, the draft law aims to implement three aid schemes for biogas: for transport, process purposes in companies and heat production. The three schemes were agreed by the 2012 Energy Agreement and were adopted by the Danish Parliament in 2012. Since then, we have been waiting for the Commission's approval of the aid schemes, which came in December 2015. The draft law is intended to ensure that Denmark complies with the terms of the European Commission's State Aid Decision of December 2015. The new guidelines on State aid for renewable energy have meant that a number of changes have to be made to the aid rules: stricter requirements on application procedures and the requirement that the aid should have an incentive effect; requirements that biogas receiving transport aid should not be used to comply with the statutory incorporation requirement. A definition of biogas has been inserted into the law. The definition should make it simpler for gas producers to read directly in the law whether they are eligible for biogas aid. The bill and related notices are planned to enter into force on 1 July 2016. I welcome the interest expressed in the draft law here in Things today. I look forward to continuing discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421102115	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421102131	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421102159	Thank you. The main purpose of this bill is to ensure the regulatory framework for Energinet.dk to take over and operate DONG Energy A/S' natural gas infrastructure and the oil pipeline from the North Sea to Fredericia. This is part of the agreement reached by the Social Democracy, Government, Radical Left, SF and Conservatives in connection with the forthcoming listing of DONG. The aim of the draft law is, as I said, to be able to carry out gas upstream, pipeline and associated separation activities, and then there is the question of natural gas distribution companies, where we must ensure that all companies are subject to the same economic regulation and that we are subject to the revenue framework regulation that applies to the other natural gas distribution companies. On the part of the Social Democratic Party, we have emphasized that it must not be more expensive for consumers to change ownership, that something passes from DONG to now Energinet.dk, and that is why we will of course also ask a number of questions in committee, which are primarily about how we ensure consumers in the affected areas, against this shift, which is justified by several different considerations, and which at least right now must ensure that Energinet.dk can take over in the long term we can discuss whether something else should happen. That is why we will be asking a number of questions in committee, which will focus on how to prevent that transfer from being passed on to consumers. We are fully aware that the agreement, both in the political agreement and in the legislative proposal, says that it must not become more expensive, but we still feel that there are some uncertainties as to how to secure it in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421102401	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Mikkel Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421102416	After all, the bill here translates into the agreement reached by a number of parties and the government in September last year on the listing of DONG. The Danish People's Party is no longer a member of the DONG Conciliation Committee. We are not, of course, because we could not vouch for the partial sale of DONG, which took place back in January 2014 to Goldman Sachs, and that is why we are not in the conciliation circle behind Goldman Sachs' sale, nor are we in the conciliation circle that has decided on the introduction of the stock exchange, of which this bill is an expiry date. It is of course the case that the uncertainty and ambiguity that we think there was in the sales process to Goldman Sachs meant that we had to be outside that agreement, and we are still pleased about that. And we have also wondered how parties such as the SF and the Social Democratic Party can be involved in that sale and thus still participate in this conciliation circle. However, the parties themselves have explained this on previous occasions. Now the conciliation circle has decided to post DONG on the stock exchange, and we must say from the Danish People's Party that there can be very good sense in that. Part of the agreement is that prior to the introduction of the stock exchange, DONG's gas network and oil distribution line from the North Sea to Fredericia must be sold off. It must be sold to Energinet.dk. We think this in itself is a wise proposition, namely that this very weak infrastructure is moving from the now rather privatised DONG to a purely state enterprise like Energinet.dk is. So I can say from here that we support the bill precisely because the bill is to create the legal basis for the sale of these wires to Energinet.dk. We will then, in the process that is going to take place about the sale of these wires to Energinet.dk, keep a special eye on how the valuation of these assets is going to take place. For us, it is important that this should be done as objectively as possible, so that the price that is worthwhile is paid and we will try to ensure that the valuation is carried out by objective experts in this area. But I have to say that in itself we see the sale here as quite reasonable, especially given that there will be an introduction to DONG on the stock exchange, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421102720	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is now Mr. President. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421102729	Thank you for that, President. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. The bill here seeks to ensure the regulatory framework for Energinet.dk to take over and operate DONG's natural gas infrastructure and oil pipeline from the North Sea to Fredericia. The legislative proposal is therefore a natural consequence of the agreement reached in September last year on the listing of DONG. At the same time, the bill ensures that prices for Energinet.dk's gas distribution service must not increase in connection with the transfer, and the Energy Inspectorate will continue to monitor the reasonableness of the prices and conditions. The draft law contains amendments which mean that users in the gas distribution network have uniform framework conditions across the country, which we in the Left welcome, which is why I would just like to add that we support the proposal and, as I have said, the Conservative People's Party does too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421102835	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and then it is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421102845	After all, the bill expires on the partial privatisation of DONG, and the bill then ensures a certain level of equal treatment with regard to the gas and oil sector by comparing Energinet.dk with other natural gas distribution companies. The draft law is quite good. This limits the harmful effects of the partial sale of DONG to Goldman Sachs, and this is dealt with in this bill. And I think that the Social Democrats' remarks about looking at how to protect consumers against higher prices in committee are very relevant to look at the long-term effects of this bill. Otherwise, the Enhedslisten takes a positive view of the fact that the bill here makes a nationalisation of some important gas and oil infrastructure, and it is interesting to see that it seems that an almost or perhaps unanimous Parliament is in favour of a nationalisation of some important infrastructure. It is worth noting. It may be that a single party is opposed, but I think there is a very broad majority in favour of this nationalization, and I really think that is interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103002	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and then it is Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103007	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance thinks it's a good idea for us to have DONG listed on the stock exchange. And when it has proved necessary to allow Energinet.dk to take over and operate the oil pipeline from the North Sea and the gas infrastructure associated with the company, we see no problem in that. They are likely to be able to cope with this, and it also seems obvious that all companies at the same moment will be subject to the same revenue framework regulation. We can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103043	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103100	In the alternative, we take note of this bill and we think it seems interesting overall. But we also understand from the consultation answers that there are some issues that I hope we can discuss in committee work, i.e. whether there may be some inappropriate company constellations by bringing these things together in the same company. So a cautiously positive attitude from here. I hope to be wiser in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103135	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103142	First of all, I am also speaking on behalf of the SF. And I did not get down to the first reading of the previous draft law, L 172, but I have to inform both on behalf of Radicals and the SF that we support the bill that implements the support schemes for biogas that we have agreed in the energy conciliation. We also support this bill which allows Energinet.dk to take over the oil and gas pipelines from the North Sea and inland. It is part of the agreement to exchange DONG that these important infrastructure elements are transferred to the state so that it is still in the hands of society and is not privatised. It is very important for the Radical Left that this is how it is going to be, so that the pipelines are still in the hands of society. So we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103237	Thank you to the rapporteur, who saved two legislative proposals with that speech. Then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103244	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your comments on the bill. The bill is to be seen in the light of the political agreement of 18 September 2015 on the listing of DONG Energy. The agreement provides for DONG's natural gas infrastructure and the oil pipeline to be sold to Energinet.dk. These include DONG's gas distribution network, gas flow infrastructure from the North Sea fields to land, including Nybro Gas treatment plants and the oil pipeline and associated separation facilities. The main purpose of the draft law is therefore to ensure that Energinet.dk is given sufficient powers to take over and operate the assets in question when relevant. Furthermore, the draft law allows the framework for the economic regulation of activities to be the same after any transfer to Energinet.dk. In relation to the gas distribution network, the bill implies that prices should not increase as a result of a trade between DONG Energy and Energinet.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103357	No one else has asked for the floor. Sorry, Minister, very late a request for a brief comment was made by Mr. Mikkel Dencker. We'll take care of it. Here you go, sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103408	Thank you, sir. Minister. I would really like to know whether it has been established how the valuation of these assets to be sold to Energinet.dk is to take place. Has the government decided on this? I can say that in the Danish People's Party we attach great importance to the fact that this must be done completely objectively, so that Energinet.dk will of course only have to pay DONG what the assets are really worth. So I'd like to know what the government's been thinking about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103437-2	Thank you for the question. I can say that, as I said in my speech, this must not lead to higher prices for consumers, and this is particularly true where there has been a particular interest in gas distribution. It is quite clear in this that it must not lead to higher prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103458	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103500	But is it the same as that it is independent experts who have to determine the value of these assets?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103510	I must point out that the questioner is given a written answer as to how that question should be answered. I am not in a position here today to explain exactly what these negotiations should be and what pricing should be. I am simply concerned to ensure that consumers do not experience price increases.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103530	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103646	Then the Minister came well. The debate is open. Minister of Transport and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421103650	It is gratifying that the Danish Parliament is working so quickly. We were in consultation, but that's fine. I should like to begin by saying that the initiatives taken by the government in the field of road transport have shown that the government is concerned about creating sensible and flexible conditions for road users, and this also applies to motorcyclists. It is the government's view that there should be a good road safety justification for requirements and rules in this area, and the government generally welcomes the proposal from the Danish People's Party. The proposal contains two parts. On the one hand, the proposal concerns an increase in the weight and width of motorbike trailers and, on the other hand, the proposal concerns driving licences for the so-called trike, which is a tricycle. Let's start with the two-wheeled. In accordance with the applicable rules, the weight of a trailer shall not exceed half of the unladen weight of the motorcycle but not more than 150 kg. The rule has been such since 1998, when it was allowed to connect a trailer to a motorcycle, that is, almost 20 years ago. A motorcycle is characterised by an unladen weight not exceeding 400 kg. The proposal that the trailer should be half the weight of the motorcycle therefore means that the permissible limit for the weight of the trailer must be increased to 200 kg as against 150 kg today. In the case of the width of the trailer, it shall not exceed 1 m at present. This rule also dates back to 1998. In Sweden and Norway the width limit today is 1 m and 25 cm. According to the proposal, the permissible width must be increased to 1 m and 30 cm. This means that the width of the trailer is increased by 15 cm on each side of the motorcycle. The accident rate for motorcycles with outboard and sidecars is very low and represents a very small part of the total accident rate for motorcycles. There are figures showing that this is 10 out of a total of 1,853 in the period 2010 to 2014. And since there are minor adjustments at the same time, it is the opinion of the Ministry of Transport and Building and the Government that there are no decisive road safety objections to adjusting the weight and width of trailers. The government therefore welcomes the proposal and we would like to help find a solution for the benefit of motorcyclists. I have therefore already asked the Danish Trade Administration to adjust the rules so that motorcyclists can be allowed to use wider and heavier trailers. Since it is a technical specification for a product and so the rules are just • there is a special notification procedure that must be complied with to the European Commission, and the works council has stated that the change will then be able to enter into force on 1 January 2017. I know that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, who is a person I know well and who I know would like to see some action taken, would well have thought that we could have done so a little sooner. But we cannot do that because there are some rules here, which is why we have to say that it will be 1 January 2017. And I hope you're happy with that. Then there is the part about trikes and the motorbike driving licence, and also the government and I are in favour of that. That is why we will be positive about the proposal as such, and I even believe that we can reach an agreement with each other. Now we can turn words about it, but I am happy to come to the committee or to invite over to me, and then I think we can land it with it. I am curious to hear what the rapporteurs have to say about this, but we are prepared to find a solution together to this very important problem for perhaps a small group of the population, but on the other hand a group for which it is incredibly important that we deal with it. So we're positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421104102	We thank the Minister and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421104124	The Danish People's Party has tabled this motion for a resolution, which the Minister explained on the subject of the possibility of amending the rules on motorbike trailers and amending the rules on driving licences for trike or tricycle motorbikes. The proposal will mean that the weight of a motorcycle trailer must be up to half the weight of the motorcycle. In other words, the current limit of 150 kg is removed, and at the same time Dansk Folkeparti also wants the width of the trailer to be extended from the current 1 m to 1.3 m on motorcycles with sidecar. At the outset, the proposal may sound very sympathetic and I must also say by the Social Democrats that we are not rejecting it, but we need clarification on the security aspect before we can finally take a position on the proposal. At the same time, I also think that it is worth considering if we extend the limit if we look at the weight, however, it is a few percent that we increase the weight by comparison with what should then be in relation to driving licences for motorcycles, also for those who have acquired it at the present time. In any case, we want to have the assessment of the proposal by the police and the Council for Safe Traffic and other relevant stakeholders before we can take a final position. So, on this basis and on the basis on which the resolution is based right now, we cannot support it. But we will not reject it if we are assured that there are no problems such as road safety, then we have no difficulty in agreeing to the proposal. So we will engage constructively in cooperation on this in order to clarify these uncertainties which we believe there are at the present time. So, on this basis, we cannot support the proposal, but we would like to engage constructively in the continuing work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421104311	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421104326	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin by thanking the Danish People's Party for tabling this resolution which will make it easier and more attractive to be a motorbike owner in Denmark. We in the Left are always concerned about making the rules more flexible in the field of transport too, but this must of course always be done in a way that does not affect road safety, and we believe that this is the case here. We agree that the rules should be changed so that the motorbike's own weight does not mean that the load capacity is minimal and the permissible width of a motorbike's trailer or trailer can be increased to 1.3 m if the motorcycle is fitted on a sidecar. With regard to the Danish People's Party's proposals on trikes, i.e.: the tricycles, the Danish People's Party has skeleton to Britain, where you can drive them on a motorcycle licence. We are also in favour of that part of it, but we note that it is actually possible to do so today. With a motorbike driving licence you can drive trikes in Denmark. So we are not worried about that. Of course, we want to continue with that. So, in summary, this is a good proposal and we intend to support it and vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421104453	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421104510	We are very much in line with the Social Democrats and the Social Democrats' rapporteur in this regard. When we are presented with such a motion for a resolution here, we would like it simply to be clarified a little better. Have some consultation contributions been made around from some of the traffic researchers who sit at DTU and at Aalborg University and where else they are, and from the police, for example, in order to have an assessment of the road safety consequences? We're thinking, when we see this, what the real reason is that there's a maximum limit of 150 kg for motorbike trailers. In any case, if you increase that weight, will the brake length be longer, and what will the consequences be? In the same way one might ask why the maximum width of trailers, for example. is 1 m as it is according to the current rules. We would like to see that clarified. What does it say, for example? The Council for Safe Traffic? The same can be said of the part of the proposal which says something about trikes: what is actually the reason why the requirement for driving licences for vehicles was introduced at the time? Because I have to say that we in the Enhedslist can also wonder about such a rule. We would like to clarify the background to this motion for a resolution, but also the consequences of what might happen when we begin to change this. I understand from the Minister that the issue of the maximum width of motorbike trailers is being changed in an entirely administrative way by means of the regulation, and that is something we must take note of. I would say that if any of these issues can be resolved during the committee procedure, we will take a position on this and be completely open to what might come. I can say as a service information that I have checked with the Parliament's Nimbus Club or rather with its vice-president, and he is quite in line with Enhedslisten here, so I feel for quite certain reason by saying that I am not taking a position in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421104737	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421104745	Thank you. I am not a member of the Nimbus Club mentioned, but I can state that the Liberal Alliance has no objection to the government being required to make the proposed adjustments to the total weight and width of trailers for motorcycles. So for the issue of the licence to drive a tricycle with a valid motorbike licence: that may already be the case today, I do not know, but we will certainly be able to clarify that. Otherwise, I shall not repeat the arguments, but I shall confine myself to saying that we support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421104821	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Nikolai Amstrup of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421104826	Thank you very much. Well, the bill has been examined by my fellow rapporteurs, and I can only say that I am close to both the Socialists and the Enhedslisten. In fact, we want to be able to support this proposal. We think this is an interesting proposal, but of course we need to fully identify whether there are any road safety consequences, but as a starting point we are positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421104857	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421104910	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting your finger on the issue, where the rules have not quite followed developments. SF welcomes the proposals, but would like them to be clarified a little more in terms of possible consequences for road safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421104927	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we are going a little back in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421104935	Again, I apologise, President, but it is going very fast today. I have Gjellerupskolen in Herning on a tour at the same time as this, and I ran down here from the interview room, but the alternative was this time much faster than expected, so I didn't make it, and that's it. We think this resolution is excellent. We are a little surprised that we have to stand in the Chamber and discuss it. I have had a little dialogue with the Minister for Transport, and one of the proposals here is apparently already in force, and it might have been possible to find out before it was put forward as a B proposal. It is about allowing you to have some slightly larger supporters on, among other things. motorcycles. We are not really in a position to assess whether this will have any harmful consequences, and we have also been in dialogue with the Safe Transport Council, which does not really have any knowledge of it either. That is why I would just like to recommend that in the committee work we get some information from the works council, and if they say that you can just do it, then we are in fact prepared to do it. And we look forward to what the Minister is saying, because I am counting on the Minister to have some input from his official work. So we are very open to being in favour of this, at least we have no problem with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421105101	Thank you to the rapporteur. I can tell you that things happen in the Chamber when they happen in the order in which they happen. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421105114	In the same way as the last few rapporteurs do with this proposal, namely that it is a very technical proposal, but immediately we have no objection to it. I also understand that the Minister for Transport has assessed this positively and does not consider that there should be any problems with the proposal. That is why we are also prepared to vote in favour of it unless something very surprising emerges during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421105138	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421105154	I would, of course, first of all like to acknowledge the Minister's willingness and also the positive approach which virtually all parties have. I believe that we can find evidence that it is not motorcycles with trailers that weigh heavily in accident statistics, and that is why we have of course also thought that this was justified. I'd like to say to Mr. Simpson... Andreas Steenberg, in relation to why you bring this up in the Chamber, that you do, because it is here that you bring up such things when you want some things changed. The fact that it can then seem to be done by amending some notices is only gratifying. It just makes work easier. What I am wondering a little bit is that you have to go as far as 1 January 2017 before this can enter into force. We need to talk about what might be the cause of this. I know that there will be a summer vacation and things like that, but I do not think that these are major changes. So it must be possible to speed up the movement so that motorcyclists might already benefit from this change this summer. But thank you for the positive statements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421105311	No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421105326	The negotiations have been opened. Minister of Transport and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421105343	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by stating that it is basically my position, and therefore also the position of the government, that you should not drive when you are affected by hashish. In Denmark we have a so-called zero limit when it comes to driving hash in the blood. The zero limit has been adopted by a broad majority in the Folketing. After all, we have discussed the issue of zero-border policy in this Parliament in the past, as motion for a resolution B 66, which is what we are debating and discussing today, has been tabled in the past as motion for a resolution B 14, which was submitted on 30 April 2015, that is, almost a year ago. As the motion for a resolution and the report show, the problem has arisen that, in some cases, the current zero-border policy may have unintended and far-reaching consequences which are not necessarily in the interests of society. In fact, the legislation is now designed to make it compulsory to disallow drivers from driving rights, so that they lose their driving licence unconditionally for three years if they are convicted of having to drive hashish in their blood. I therefore agree with the proposers that we should look at whether the penalty for hash driving can be arranged in a way that ensures that the penalty is proportionate while maintaining road safety. This was exactly what the majority of the Danish Parliament agreed a year ago when the report was presented. We can find in the report the wording used when it was to be given away. It is clear that when I look at that report, I have also assessed in that light how we can move forward in this matter. I would therefore now like to call on the rapporteurs of all parties in the Folketing to meet on this hash driving. When the rapporteurs have had the opportunity to discuss and consider possible solutions, where we also have the opportunity to look at how the penalties are in our neighbouring countries, we also have a much better basis for assessing whether there is a need to launch further research into tolerance limits, as the report imposed on the government and now places the government on it. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution at this stage, but, as I said, I am very prepared for the rapporteurs to be convened, and then we will have a thorough discussion on it, also in the light of what we previously agreed in the report and the position we previously held together when the last year was discussed as motion for a resolution B 14.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421105657	Thank you, Minister. We are going to start with the rapporteurs. First, it's sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421105716	Thank you. In some circles there is a tendency to romanticize hashish. I think that is a mistake. Hash destroys young people's lives and their social lives and can be the start of an abuse of hard drugs. If you smoke hash at home, you are putting yourself at risk; if you combine hash with driving, you are guilty of drug driving and are putting yourself at risk not only but also others. It is both selfish and ruthless and must therefore be punished quite harshly. The motion for a resolution we are now debating calls for people who lose their driving licences because of drug trafficking with hashish in their blood to be able to recover the driving licence after a shorter period than is the case today. It is proposed that instead of paying a fine, the sentenced person should pay for necessary blood tests. The Socialists are opposed to the abolition of the penalty for hash-influenced driving. We need to reduce the number of people killed and injured in traffic. That is why we must continue to hit hard on drug driving. The proposal we are now considering will reduce the penalty for drug driving. That is why the Socialists are opposed to the proposal. The proposal also concerns the zero tolerance of drug traffic adopted by the Danish Parliament in 2007. One cannot say today exactly when a given concentration of a drug, such as hashish, in the blood means that you cannot safely drive a car. At the same time, however, it is known that driving under the influence of drugs poses a significant threat to road safety. That is why the principle of zero tolerance is a sensible principle, which first and foremost takes care of road safety and which is easy for the authorities to use in the fight against drug traffic. That is why the Socialists are in favour of the zero tolerance principle. The proposal calls for the government to initiate research into whether a de minimis limit for hashish in blood can be raised without compromising road safety. This is to avoid punishing people where exposure to hashish is far back in time or where the effect is due to passive smoking. As has already been said, the Socialists will, of course, come up for discussion if the Government and the Minister of Transport take initiatives in this direction, but the support for the zero principle, as it stands today, remains unchanged. With these comments, I can say that the Social Democrats do not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421105931	This gave rise to a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421105936	I can hear that the rapporteur is eager to call hashish hard drugs. However, the rapporteur is very concerned about young people whose lives are being destroyed by this. I would then like to ask whether the rapporteur considers it reasonable that a young person who has smoked a joint or something at a party on Saturdays and who drives a car the next week in the belief that everything is fine is stopped and has his driving licence withdrawn because there is zero tolerance. It is perhaps the driving licence that allows him to take up his job or apprenticeship or internship. Does the rapporteur not consider this to be disproportionate? Well, this is based on a discussion that you can find THC in your blood for a long time after it has no impact on your driving skills.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110028	Thank you. I have just said that hashish could lead to a later abuse of harder drugs, so I have not called hashish nor do I consider hashish to be a hard drug either. I said it could lead to the abuse of harder drugs. When we are concerned about the de minimis limit and that the zero tolerance principle is sensible, it is of course because today we cannot say exactly when an impact is so severe that it has consequences for whether a car can be driven safely. We don't know about that today. That is why I believe that we need to support the zero tolerance principle, which will make it clear whether the person has taken hashish or not. After all, we know that the consumption of hashish has some very negative consequences for road safety. So I do not really see that, as things are today, we can go beyond the fact that the principle of zero tolerance must be the guiding principle, because this is the best way of ensuring road safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110143	In the answers given to questions in this area, the Minister of Justice informs via the Danish Health Authority that it is the Danish Health Authority's assessment that THC, the active substance in cannabis, can be measured in the body for up to 2 months after a single hashrus. I should like to ask the rapporteur again: will the rapporteur think that you are a danger to traffic, two months after perhaps for the first and only time in your life you have tried to smoke a joint and that it should mean that you may lose your job, your internship, your apprenticeship? Are these reasonable proportions? That is actually what I was trying to ask for at first round: are those reasonable proportions? There are other countries which have a completely different practice from us Norway, England and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110228	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110230	I think I tried to reply to the rapporteur earlier by saying that I do not have any knowledge of the matter, nor do others, as things are now, exactly how much hash you must have consumed to be a danger to road safety. What we know is that if you smoke weed and drive a car, you're a danger. That is why I believe that the zero tolerance principle is the only useful tool available to combat drug traffic. I think it is important that we continue to fight drug traffic, which is the cause of both the deaths and the injuries in traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110304	The next one is sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110308	It seems to me that the rapporteur would like to use the traffic code to combat drugs, so it is said that hashish can lead to the abuse of hard drugs, etc. In this connection, the Road Traffic Code is in play. I guess it's not really fair to use traffic law to do that. After all, the traffic law must ensure that road safety is in order. The report that was adopted at the time, which I recognise the Socialists stood outside, clearly states that there are some unintended effects of this when you lose your driving licence, you may also lose your job and your apprenticeship. It is quite violent consequences if you can actually see that people have been driving without being affected because it is perhaps 14 days since they smoked a joint.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110357	I would say that if traffic law can contribute to fewer people smoking hashish, it is of course positive, because hashish has a number of negative consequences. However, it is not true to say that I have argued or that I believe that we should use the traffic law to combat hash ^ that is by no means the case. What I am just saying is that when our knowledge of when to drive a car under the influence of hashish is as it is today, I cannot see that we have other options if we want to combat drug traffic than to have a zero tolerance principle. That is why we continue to support the principle of zero tolerance adopted broadly in the Danish Parliament in 2007.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110438	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110441	I must admit that I do not quite know what that knowledge is to which the rapporteur refers. It is, of course, a controversial subject, but I think there is a common perception that one week later, if you can detect THC in your body, you are not really affected. And that is what has happened, in other words, that people are being stopped and sentenced to their driving licences unconditionally, with the consequences that I have mentioned before that it may have in relation to apprenticeships and jobs. I think that is a rather unintended effect, which I cannot understand the Socialists will not agree with is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110516	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is not possible to say exactly when a given concentration of a drug, such as hashish, in blood means that you cannot safely drive a car. At the same time, however, it is known that driving under the influence of drugs poses a significant threat to road safety. And the two things combined mean that if you want to combat drug traffic, as the Social Democrats do, then the zero tolerance principle is the only useful tool that I see it. But, as I said, we are happy to come up for discussions with the Minister of Transport, and then we will have to take it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110549	The next brief remark is to Mr. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110553	Thank you very much. I can of course hear that the Socialist rapporteur is making a big sales speech for the policy of zero tolerance, and that is, of course, a position that can be taken. But in that speech I also heard something that I would like to ask about. If I heard correctly, the rapporteur said that the use of hashish leads to the use of hard drugs. And I would very much like to know where the rapporteur has that information, because it is not something that I have been able to find out immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110631	Then the rapporteur will have to listen carefully to what I am saying. What I said was that an abuse of hashish can and so it depends on an observation just by looking at the environments where hashish occurs; then it is my layman's assessment that in those environments there is also a higher incidence of hard drugs than there are in environments where alcohol alone is consumed. That was the only consideration I had transferred to my rapporteur's speech, in which I said that hash abuse could be the start of an abuse of hard drugs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110707	Thank you. We should not underestimate a layman's assessment, but we should not underestimate the fact that, as far as I am aware, there are no research results showing that the consumption of hashish leads to drug abuse. That is why I am thinking: could the Socialists not be interested in learning about this? And could it change this zero tolerance policy if there was a research into it and a certain limit value for THC could be shown not to be a danger to road safety?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110750	I think it is important to maintain here that we should not, of course, make drug legislation through traffic law. We have also discussed this in the past. As I see it, if you want to combat drug traffic, it is not practically possible to derogate from the zero tolerance principle, and that is why we support it. However, I have also made it clear that we would be happy to come up for discussions with the other rapporteurs and the Minister for Transport if those discussions were called for. I understand from the Minister for Transport that there will be, and then we can discuss it there. Furthermore, if we can learn more about the link between the use of hashish and the abuse of other drugs in committee work, I would say that I am happy to take part in discussions which can make us all wiser.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110824	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110836	In the report submitted, last time we dealt with this, B 14, Dansk Folkeparti was also part of the parties that, of course, would like to take part in looking at whether we are judging some people inappropriately. We must then be careful not to see that as if we are going to compromise on the zero tolerance that we ourselves have been involved in introducing, because we will not do so. But we want to help investigate things and try to see if you can learn more about this problem, even in relation to, as I think I also said, when this was dealt with last time, that there is a problem in relation to cases where cannabis, for example, is present. is included in medical treatment. Therefore, the Danish People's Party is open to looking at whether science can make us wiser precisely in this area. However, we do not support the resolution in relation to lower penalties and so on, because there should be such special rules for pot smokers rather than for people who have drunk a beer or two too much. That is where we believe that zero tolerance applies. That we can then get science to look at whether one can be better at tracking things in the blood and timed it etc., we are, of course, open to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110950	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421110954	Okay, the last remark from Mr. Kim Christiansen reassured me a little, because I would actually take the opportunity to ask: What if we manage to convince the Danish People's Party that a week or 14 days after you have smoked a joint at a party or something like that is not affected when you drive? What are we going to say? Because that is still apparent in the body, and then it is contrary to the policy of zero tolerance, so we have had to soften up. We're talking. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about cases where, after a week or 14 days, what I know, THC is still found in the blood, but where it is quite obvious that you are not affected and that you can drive a car very well and thus, for example. Doing his job, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421111052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421111054	This is a difficult discussion, because I believe that everyone who is stopped and found positive will argue that it is at least 8-14 days since they have been anywhere near hash last time, and I understand that. So what we want to do is to see if you can measure this in a better way, but we will not help to punish people who smoke hash rather than people who have been taken for liquor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421111123	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421111125	That's exactly what this is about, namely how we measure this, and how we saw, compared to how THC behaves, know what the time frame is for it to come off, if I may say so. That is where I say that if we now come to the conclusion that it is true that after two days the person is no longer affected, then we need a break with the policy of zero tolerance, because it can still be seen in the body, but I hear the rapporteur a little as if we do not want to do so under any circumstances. Then there's not much to talk about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421111158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421111200	No, it is not a break with zero tolerance, because the moment we examine it here and perhaps learn more about when you are affected and when it has an impact on the ability to drive, that is where that limit is then set and there is zero tolerance from. You shouldn't drive in an affected condition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421111224	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and then it is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421111233	Thank you for the floor. It is an exciting motion for a resolution that we are debating, and there is also some technique in it. Then, unfortunately, a debate like this is going to get messed up. A few moments ago we had an interesting debate between the Alternative and the Socialists on whether hashish could lead to the abuse of harder drugs, and what do I know? It is simply not very much to do with the resolution we are dealing with here, because it is about road safety, and it is about not wanting people who pose a danger to road safety to sit behind the wheel. After all, the motion for a resolution has come up before us, and it ended up with a report on which a fairly broad majority supported it. It was in addition to ourselves in the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the proposers themselves, the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. And then I hear from the tones coming from the alternative that you will probably be able to gather there as well. So it looks exciting and bright, but the question then is whether we can find a sensible end to it all. The Left cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because the motion for a resolution lays down absolutely what sanctions should then be instead of what is today. I also think that there are some ambiguities in the resolution, that is to say that there will be a total removal of fines, that is to say, for people who have been driving in such hash affected a state that they have been a danger to others. The Left cannot support this. Is it also suggested that this should apply to drunken drivers? I guess that's what you should do if there's any connection in it. So the Left agrees with the SF that there are some shortcomings in the current policy in this area, but does not agree with the actual form of the resolution. But, of course, we agree with what the report says; we remain firm about that. For the record, let me briefly summarize the main features of the report. We concluded that the current zero tolerance policy on cannabis driving in blood can have unintended consequences, and that is why the majority called on the Minister, in other words the Minister at the time, to identify the problem and then to draw up different models of how to find a solution which, on the one hand, maintains the high level of road safety but, on the other hand, sees whether there is proportionality in relation to the penalty imposed. Not so much happened under the previous government, but that is why it should not of course be forgotten, and the present government must then deliver on it. As the Minister for Transport said at the beginning of the debate, a meeting is being convened, and we look forward to that so that we can meet the recommendation of the Legal Affairs Committee sitting there at that time. I think there may be a little confusion, because I quite agree with Mr Beazley. Kim Christiansen from the Danish People's Party in that we must have zero tolerance to people driving cars when they are affected by hashish to a degree, so they are a danger to traffic. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, That in the case of zero tolerance you can measure just a tiny trace of THC in the blood, be it because you've been smoking 3-4 weeks ago... even passive smoking, there have been examples of how you can find THC in the blood... doesn't mean you're a danger in the traffic, and the question is where we can get the country cut. I had the great pleasure of being with the Committee on Legal Affairs during the last period on a study trip to, among other things. Denver in Colorado, where weed has been completely released. Of course, this has given rise to some challenges in terms of how to deal with people driving a car. But just as you can have a society where it is legal to drink alcohol, but illegal to drive when you are affected, you can of course also have a system where it is legal to smoke hashish, but illegal to drive when you are affected. They have solved the problem in that they combine a technical measurement of the content of THC in the blood with some physical tasks, i.e. some tests which have perhaps also been seen in American films, for example. When the cop asks you to get out of the car and see if you can walk straight or when you have to count backwards from 100 and other things. And with such a combination, they think it is possible to determine whether people are affected to a degree so that they should not drive a car or whether they are not. I think we should draw inspiration from this, in other words, look at what is being done in other countries, because the current policy is unsustainable. Just as we should not take the driving licence from people who have had a full chocolate with Grand Marnier at Aunt Oda 14 days ago, we should not, of course, take the driving licence from people who have driven a car in a perfectly sound manner either. If we are to fight hashish, it must be done in other ways. It must be done through the criminal code, it must be done through the law on drugs. We don't need traffic laws for any other purpose. We don't take the car from people who have cheated on taxes or other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421111752	This gave rise to a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421111757	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his comments and for the reference to the rather broad report that was produced, which I actually thought was a very, very good starting point for something to happen, and now I will come up later and explain for myself why I have retabled this motion for a resolution. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur, who spoke a little about it, whether it was correctly understood that this hashish policy must be pursued elsewhere, and that should not be done in the area of transport. Was it right that the rapporteur said that it is not here, that we should have a moral stand for one thing or another or discuss whether it is legal or illegal, because we all know what the status quo is, and here we should look at what is relevant to road safety?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421111850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421111852	In the Road Traffic Code, we have to set up some regulations and have some penalties, which means that the people who get into a car and thus potentially pose a danger to all of us. This also means that you should not be affected, and you should not be of legal drugs such as medicines or alcohol, nor should you be of illegal drugs such as hashish, heroin or anything else. So you don't have to drive a car in an affected state, and that's the purpose of the criminal code. What is then to be legal and illegal and how to combat it is to be done in other ways. Otherwise, we can say that it is not the case that those who smoke hashish and who have a driving licence are putting more pressure on them to get them out of abuse than those who smoke hashish but do not have a driving licence. I don't really think it makes much sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421111950	The questioner? No, there is no follow-up question, so we would like to thank the rapporteur and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421112000	It is true that this is a re-submission of motion for a resolution No. B 14 from the previous parliamentary assembly. And it is also true that, after the work of the committee, that resolution ended up with a report which was a very large majority behind it. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has so well summarized the contents of the report, so I will not spend so much time on that, but just note that the report clearly states that the policy of zero tolerance in this respect has some unintended effects, because people who drive cars without being affected by cannabis and without endangering road safety, and that the policy of zero tolerance means, of course, that they get an unconditional disapproval if only the smallest tiny bit of THC is found in the blood or anywhere else in the body. And that is what happens without it being shown that road safety has been at risk. The majority behind the report also points out that in these cases the penalty is not always proportional. In fact, the report points out that this will have serious consequences. When you lose your driving licence, a lot of people lose their jobs because it is a condition for having the job in question. We have seen many examples of young people losing their apprenticeship because they have been found to have little THC in their blood, but clearly have not influenced the driving they have carried out. It is not that we compromise in any way. In fact, the report also draws attention to the fact that, of course, people who drive vehicles in an affected state must be severely reduced, because they are, of course, a danger to road safety. And that is why the report calls on the Minister to invite the parties of the Folketing to discuss the various models which might be introduced with a view to finding viable solutions. In addition, it is said that some research on tolerance limits should be initiated. In fact, we think that it was an excellent report that came out of the resolution in question at the time, and that is why there is no reason to start all over again. It is, in fact, a very good starting point for the discussions we shall then have and which I understand the Minister is now calling. One might say that it is indeed time for this to happen because, as I have said, there is a report which is so small as to be one year old. So I guess it's time for us to get through with it. There is no reason to go into the B proposal itself, because I am counting on us to start on the basis of the report that has been prepared. We still believe that the use of traffic legislation in the fight against drugs is continuing here. This is something that actually lies in criminal law and in drug law. Basically, we think that the proposal is better than nothing, but in reality, traffic legislation is still being used to punish people for violations of drug law. But as I said, it's better than nothing. We have come up with a report, and that is what is, like, our starting point. And the most important thing is therefore that meetings are convened on the basis of that report. I am certainly not of the opinion that we are starting all over again. We have to start where a clear majority in the last assembly said we were. The unitary list will, of course, come up for the negotiations, but it is with the clear assumption that it is the report that provides the basis for our discussions and that, as I said, we will not start all over again and that, in this context, we will be able to put forward the necessary legislative initiatives, which the report also emphasized, so that we can also get rid of the absurdities of people losing their driving licences without being affected and without endangering road safety. However, I welcome the announcement by the Minister for Transport that he is now convening those meetings and, as I have said, it is about the fact that the report, once adopted by a broad majority, is the starting point for the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421112431	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421112438	Of course, we agree with the proposers that it should be sanctioned if you drive a car while you are under the influence of hashish. We also agree that, in some cases, the current zero-limit policy can have unintended and, for that matter, also extremely far-reaching consequences for the individual if the driving licence is denied unconditionally for three years for hashish driving in the blood. And it can actually happen without really having to be in a state where you are in any way a danger to traffic. This is such a very black-and-white view, one might say, in the rules that are now in place, and we naturally call for this to be considered alternative solutions, which I understand the Minister is just an element of last year's report. We therefore look forward to the government getting into working clothes in this area and having possible tolerance thresholds examined, possibly by skewing to foreign experience, so that we have a more nuanced legislation in this area. So we share the idea behind the motion for a resolution and assume that the work is already under way or will be done very soon. And I also understand that the rapporteurs are being called. But overall, like the Enhedslisten, I would like to say that we like the report better than the concrete elements of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421112604	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421112611	Thank you very much. I would like to start with the rather surprising statement that I am sorry that this resolution has been retabled. And I am because I think we need to qualify this debate in a completely different way. There is a very, very good part of the resolution which is about us having to look into what the direct links are. Not the relationship between driving and hash in the blood, for it is not something called, but between driving and traces or levels of THC in the blood. And the reason why it is so necessary to have this nuanced is, of course, that at the moment we in the Folketing are also negotiating medical cannabis. Today's legislation leads to disproportionate consequences of a minimal concentration of THC in blood. We fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution. However, it would have been desirable for us to have had a broader discussion about this and had actually received the qualified resolution from the outset. With regard to the part of what is mainly about the need to learn more about the road safety consequences of a certain concentration of THC in blood, we fully agree. In relation to the changes in terms of penalties, we find it very, very difficult to be as specific as they are in the resolution. That is why I am very, very pleased with the tones I can hear from many other rapporteurs, including the rapporteur on the Left, who, incidentally, I think did a very, very thorough and fine review of the report that was drawn up at an earlier stage. If that report can serve as a basis for further work, as the Minister has also said, then we think it is a more correct way to go than to get this resolution through. We would therefore urge the Minister to follow up on this and we expect him to do so so that meetings can be convened and we can proceed with the implementation of the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421112833	This gave rise to a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421112837	Thank you. At the risk of sounding a little christian castle technical for those who should follow here, I would just like to comment on what the rapporteur says. When I have retabled this proposal, which was put forward under the former SF legal rapporteur, it is because the report which I thought was so fine and which received such broad support was based on this motion for a resolution. If I had begun to change the resolution, there were some I am not saying that they would do the thing that could say that hey, that was not the B proposal on which we reported. So sometimes you have to retable a motion for a resolution which does not become law directly, but which can require the government to push for something to happen. So that is why I have retabled exactly the same motion for a resolution that was tabled last year. But I also agree that the report is a very good starting point. So we have heard from the Minister today that something is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421112937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421112940	Thank you. In fact, I hear that I fully agree with Mrs Bech Poulsen that what we have to focus on here is the report. And, by the way, I think it is wonderful that in an area such as this, we can create as broad a consensus in the Parliamentary Assembly as I hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421112958	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421113007	In the Radical Left, of course, we do not think people should drive if they are affected by hashish. I do not think anyone disagrees that this should be the case. Then we've been able to see some cases of people who've been smoking weed. And a few days after they are no longer affected, you can still track hashish, and then they can get the driver's license taken off on that basis. We do not think that is fair either. After all, it is a very cross-border intervention that you can lose your driving licence and get it denied for a number of years when you have not done anything that is dangerous for road safety. Of course, we have to go in and look at that, which is why I think it is quite good that the SF has tabled this motion for a resolution again. For as has been the case in the debate, among other things. Just now, an excellent report was made here in the Danish Parliament a year ago, and now it would be fine if we could start acting on it a little. That is also what I understand the government wants, and then something quite fine comes out of it. Because, as I understand it, the problem is how to measure this substance in the blood, or how to not measure it, and how to arrange a sensible procedure for that which also holds with the lawyers and with the policemen who will have to arrest some or not arrest some. So I hope that we get a lot deeper so that we can, of course, have people arrested driving in an affected state, but so that we do not take away any driving licence completely unjustified.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421113155	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421113207	After all, this is the time of the year when there will be a lot of motions for resolutions to hit different electoral groups around, and this is one of them. It is perfectly legitimate, but driving is not legitimate if you are affected by drugs, and we think that this should be maintained. You shouldn't smoke hash, and you shouldn't drive when you've done it. We would like to take part in a work to look at the proportions of the penal system, but we are not ready to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421113256	This gave rise to a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421113259	So, first of all, this proposal was put forward for the first time a year and a half ago. Then it was retabled before Christmas. But there was a very broad support from the Danish Parliament's parties, not all, but many, to look at this. The rapporteur says that you should not drive when you are affected. We all agree on that. I think it's a total strawman argument. No one here thinks that we should still live with hundreds of people dying or being injured in traffic every year, especially when there has been an influence on alcohol. What we would like to look at is how it can be ensured that 2 000 people do not get their driver's license taken away................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's what this is all about. Surely we should not conduct hash policy, drug policy or moral policy in connection with traffic law. Here we need to look at how to ensure that traffic is as safe as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421113414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421113418	We are of the opinion that there should be very low tolerance to substances in the blood in connection with driving. Here we have introduced a zero tolerance limit, and it is difficult for us to immediately see the reason for going the other way and being such a more tolerant in this area. However, as I said, we can have a discussion about this, and there must of course be some consistency in our legal system and the penalties that people receive. But that's the difference with alcohol that hashish is an illegal drug. That is why we have put it in the category of other substances, which are also illegal and in which we have introduced a zero tolerance limit. I actually think that makes perfect sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421113507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421113511	I would like to ask the rapporteur to outline just how many people die from alcohol-related traffic accidents every year and how many people die from hash-related traffic accidents every year, now that we are talking about proportionality and what is reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421113530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421113533	I think Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen knows I can't answer that, just like a shot from her hip. I will have to break up with that, but I'm sure Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen can do so herself if she needs those figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421113545	We thank the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421113601	Thank you. After all, we are a little different rapporteurs present today, in relation to resort areas. I am usually the legal rapporteur, and what concerns me a great deal in this area is that there is, I think, a very uncertain and unclear legal state; that there is no proportionality in it. As far as I know, Denmark is the only country among the countries with which we compare ourselves, which has this type of sanctions. I think we are mixing apples and pears together in this discussion, or that there are many who do. There may be a moral point of view as to whether people should smoke weed or not. There may be the view that it is illegal. But what I am hearing from most of the parties who are present and I would very much like to sign for that, because I think that is fantastic is that we should not pursue hashish policy, that we should not pursue moral policy, that we should not pursue drugs policy in road safety, in road traffic law. You have to take that somewhere else. It is perfectly fair to have a moral stand on it or to think it should be legal or illegal, but we can take it elsewhere. Here we are discussing how we can ensure that fewer people die and are injured in traffic. And I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov, that alcohol is the great sinner, compared to what happens to accidents and accidents where people are affected. I am not sure that the limit for driving with alcohol in your blood is the right one, but we can take that at another time. I just think that we should have proportionality in this relationship to looking at who's affected when they get into a car and who gets these fines. In 2013, it was 2,000 people who got their driver's license denied on this basis. A great many of them want a job, an internship or an apprenticeship where they are completely dependent on a driving licence. And then maybe it can be dismissed because they smoked a single joint at a party a few weeks before. You can have opinions about whether to do or not, but this is completely out of proportion. I do not think it is worthy of the rule of law that we go in and destroy people's lives in these specific cases where we should look at whether or not it has had an impact on road safety. I think it is tragic that so many people are still dying and getting hurt in traffic, and we must strike down on that. We need zero tolerance to drive in affected condition. But we shouldn't ruin people's lives because they're driving with remnants of THC in their blood if it doesn't in any way affect their driving. I am very pleased with the Minister's statement that he would like to call for discussions. And, as I also said to the rapporteur of the Alternative, I have retabled this proposal, which my former colleague Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt made 11⁄2 years ago, unchanged. I have also received a lot of input into how it can be changed in one direction or another. And then we should not start to botanize in anything if it could mean that some would say: then that report will no longer apply, because it has not been added to the new motion for a resolution. It may be a little inner Christiansborg-like, but it is therefore the technical background for the fact that it has been retabled completely unchanged. I am glad that we will have the debate. I am pleased that the Minister has said that discussions are now being called for. I can see many ways of ending this, but it is only a positive result if we get this zero tolerance done and get a job started, where we can say on a factual, professional basis where the limit should lie so that we still have road safety at the top of the agenda, but do not smash people's lives with some kind of moral policy that I think the current legislation is an expression of. But thank you very much for all the positive statements that I think have been over the board. I am very pleased about this, and I look forward to having the opportunity to visit the Minister of Transport, although I am not the transport rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421114040	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421114105	The debate is open. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421114113	Thank you. With the proposal to withdraw sovereignty, the proposers want Danish legislation to make it possible to introduce income principles that ignore the so-called principle of aggregation and to ensure the rules on daily allowances, so that EU citizens will in future not be able to obtain full entitlement to Danish daily allowances after just a few weeks of membership of an unemployment fund and full-time work in Denmark. The comments on the proposal refer, inter alia, to: to the fact that the previously introduced income principle of 2 years for EU citizens for the right to full child benefit has been overruled in relation to EU citizens. The Government fully agrees that we must work to ensure the Danish unemployment benefit rules and that full child benefits should not be paid to children living in countries with lower living costs than in Denmark. You can be sure of this by reading the government basis, just as the government in the negotiations on B48 has confirmed the ambition expressed by the Left and the other parties behind the agreement on Danish welfare in Europe. However, we do not want the principle of aggregation to be abolished, and I shall return to that straight away. It is a fundamental premise for the government that we are working to change the rules within the existing Treaty basis and in compliance with our EU legal obligations. The European Union is committed to cooperation, and it only works if the Member States loyally comply with the commitments. It goes without saying that the European Union cannot function if the Member States unilaterally and at will in relation to individual cases and areas withdraw sovereignty. In this context, I would like to emphasise that the government supports the EU's fundamental principle of free movement. The citizens and businesses have enormous benefits from this. This is especially true in a small and open economy like the Danish economy, and we also think it is positive that Danes can go out and get work in other EU countries. Danes also benefit from the rules on social security. We therefore do not want to change the fundamental principles set out in the Treaty, and one of those principles is the principle of aggregation. If a Dane gives up his job in Denmark in order to take a job in Germany and move there, it would not be fair if he had to start over and wait for 12 months before he or she had the same security in relation to unemployment as his or her German colleague. Having said that, we must ensure that the principles are not abused. The government wants a better balance in the rules so that opportunistic behaviour is counteracted and freedom of movement does not lead to unfairness. In the past, during the negotiations on B48, I have described the government's work in promoting the Danish priorities in this area. But despite the short time that has passed since then, interesting things have happened in the meantime, so let me briefly outline the status. The most important news since the last part-session is the agreement at the European Council of 18 and 19 February on Britain's relations with the European Union. The agreement states that, in the event of a British 'yes' vote in the referendum, the European Commission will submit a proposal to amend EU rules to enable the child benefit to be adjusted for children residing in another country so that the amount of the benefit can be taken into account in the country concerned. I dare say that in this case Denmark was Britain's closest support. In practical terms, the proposal will take the form of a proposal to amend Regulation 883 on the coordination of social security benefits between Member States for migrant workers. In addition to discussing the rules on child benefits with the responsible Commissioner and with relevant ministerial colleagues, I have among other things. It also discussed the Danish wish that Regulation 883 explicitly states that a certain amount of time should be worked before entitlement to benefit is obtained. Because although we do not want to abolish the principle of aggregation in general, we believe that there must be a real link with the labour market in the new country before there can be a merger. The government has thus actively sought to influence the Commission and the other countries in terms of the content of the proposal to amend Regulation 883 which the Commission will make. In the light of the forthcoming referendum in the United Kingdom on 23 June, the Commission has indicated that the proposal will only be tabled on the other side of the referendum. The government will therefore use the time to continue bilateral discussions with the Commission and the other countries. To conclude, I believe that we are well in the process of implementing the ambitions of the government base, and we are doing so on the premise that we support EU cooperation and the freedom of movement resulting from it, and the absurdities of EU rules must be eliminated in cooperation with the Commission and the other Member States, and not by withdrawing Denmark from cooperation. So with these words, I must say that the government cannot support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421114750	This gave rise to a few brief comments, first from Mr Beyer de Ryke. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421114758	Thank you to the Minister for those words, although the Minister cannot support our proposal. But it may not really surprise me very much. However, I would like to ask the Minister in relation to his statements to Politiken on 20 April 2016. The Minister says that there should be an opportunity for a period of carnage of a certain size to require someone to have worked, for example. A few months, as we have in Denmark now. And the reason why I am asking that question is, of course, that a case is pending against Finland, which the Commission has brought. In Finland they have these four weeks as it should be, and we have our rules in Denmark, and then the question to the Minister is: is there any reason for the optimism that the Minister is taking? Or is there not more reason for us to withdraw sovereignty in this area and say: we in Denmark will be allowed to set up the demands and rules that we do and that we will do in the future to counteract this speculation in social benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421114857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421114901	This is one of the points on which I have had intense discussions, both with the Commissioner and with the colleagues of ministers, and I have been able to observe for the time being, we can say that nothing has really happened in relation to the current case to which reference has been made. And I have a reasonable assumption that the Danish views will be acceptable when we come to the situation in which Regulation 883 is to be negotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421114934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421114938	After all, it is very good to have the ambition that everything will be fine, but when it comes to the European Union, I do not think we are in the habit of observing that everything will also be good. One of the reasons why we have tabled this proposal is that the Minister's colleague, Mr Søren Pind, has indicated that it is not difficult to go in the Folketing and pass a law with 90 mandates behind him and then say that sovereignty is now being withdrawn. That is what the Minister said the day before we were going to vote on the legal reservation, which is why it is very appropriate to test it. Now that there is an area with which everyone in this Chamber agrees that there is a problem, it will be very obvious just to do as Søren Pind points out and then withdraw sovereignty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115016	Ministers are being charged with their ministerial responsibilities. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115024	I understand the reference to the opinion in question, and I fully agree with that statement if, moreover, one is prepared to live with the consequences of one's decision. Here we are going for the goal, and I am convinced that we have a common goal here. And my assessment is that we will best achieve the goal of continuing the constructive negotiations I have had during the period I have now been responsible for it. I believe that we can find satisfactory solutions to the outstanding issues we have in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115054	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115057	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I have to say that I am a big question mark, but perhaps the Minister can help me. In spring 2014, early in the year, the Conservative People's Party tabled a motion for a resolution in this Chamber, which was to instruct the then government to follow the current law on the payment of children's cheques. It was a law passed in 2010 when the then bourgeois government and the bourgeois majority introduced a principle of income in relation to the right to receive child cheques. At that time, when the Conservatives' proposals had to be considered, the former Socialist Government said that it could not, because it would be contrary to the Treaty to adopt such a thing. To that, the Left, along with the other bourgeois parties, claimed that it would not be contrary to the Treaty. There was no difficulty in doing so and introducing exactly what the Danish People's Party is proposing here, namely that you should not be able to include periods spent in the other EU countries. But now we are told that the kind of thing that the Danish People's Party is proposing here, we cannot. That would be contrary to the Treaty. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115222	This is because my assessment is that we are most easily achieving the objectives that we have set up by conducting the negotiations that we are holding them now, and precisely on this point we have put a great deal of effort into allying with Britain, supporting Britain in the process that they have been through and which has come to the conclusion that, if we vote 'yes' on the part of the British, we will see that there is going to be an indexation of these child benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115258	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115301	Excuse me, the minister is not answering what I'm asking. There is then a clear contradiction to the view taken by the bourgeois parties in spring 2014 when the Conservatives tabled their motion for a resolution that the legislation of the VK government should be followed in this area. The argument was that, in the opinion of the bourgeois parties, it would not be contrary to the Treaty to implement it. Why will the government not now support the Danish People's Party's proposal, which in principle says the same thing, and why is the argument now being used that it would be contrary to the Treaty if the Danish People's Party's proposal were adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115345	Because I mean what I say. Firstly, we in the government do not want an actor now in relation to the European Union, which involves proposals for Treaty changes. None of us can be served with that, and it would be a completely incalculable situation we would be in. Secondly, we want to change the rules on these child benefits. We have put a road together with other countries that will allow us to change child benefits as we want them, and that is why we are choosing to go that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115421	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115423	I actually understand that the Minister will not give a clear answer to that, Mr President. Finn Sørensen asks. When we listen to what the Minister is saying and perhaps also listen to what is being said between the lines, it seems that the government may have made an agreement with colleagues in the European Union that one disregards the Treaty and one will find a solution that one considers appropriate to the interaction desired in the EU. And then the Treaty is ignored. After all, the Minister is not answering whether this is contrary to the Treaty or not. We are dealing with a number of discussions and then we want to find a solution along these lines. That means finding a solution that disregards the Treaty. You do not see whether this is contrary to the Treaty or not, but it will be a solution that the ministers down in the European Union seem to fit. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115513	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115516	As I mentioned in an earlier reply, in the current situation we do not want to do anything that is in line with Treaty changes in this area. That's one. The second is that we do not really want to challenge the Treaty here either, because we have found a way that is capable, together with other EU countries, and now, following the agreement made with Britain, we have been assured that a 'yes' on the part of the British will allow us to have the indexing of the children's cheque.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115548	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115550	Maybe this isn't just about the children's check. These may be many other areas. As I hear it, you have the attitude that you should not at last challenge the European Union, because we must put Angela Merkel down in Germany. She's the one with the power down there. The Danish Government says: okay, we should not challenge anything in the EU. Nor should we take into account what is desired in Denmark, but we must work to promote something that we can jointly find out in the European Union. That's how it's left. The government does not want to challenge the European Union in any way whatsoever.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115626	I don't agree with Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted when he draws that picture. We have no difficulty on the part of the government in challenging the European Union or challenging rules in the European Union if we think it is wise and if we think it is necessary. But if we can find ways of achieving our objectives, together with European colleagues, then that is what is best for us in the present. And here it is our view that we can find common ways, provided the British vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421115657	We thank the Minister. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 13th day date.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130011	The sitting is resumed. The item on the agenda we are discussing is the first reading of motion for a resolution. B 70. The Minister for Employment has had the floor, and the first rapporteur is Mr Gundelach. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130029	Thank you very much for the floor, President. First of all, I would like to say that I agree very much with many of the considerations put forward by the Minister for Employment, and I would like to begin by saying that we are in complete agreement with the Minister for Justice when he said in the election campaign for the referendum on 3 December last year that it is not difficult to go down to the Parliamentary Assembly and adopt a law with 90 mandates behind him and say that now sovereignty is being withdrawn. We fully agree with that. It is clear from Danish law: Parliament can always withdraw sovereignty. If you go back and look at what the Constitutional Commission of 1946 said about Paragraph 20 of the Constitution, it appears that it was said that there has been agreement in the Commission that if a power of sovereignty previously conferred on an international authority by the parliament is to be withdrawn, a draft law on this subject could be adopted in accordance with the general rule by a majority. So in Danish law the legal position is clear. We also agree with the Danish People's Party and the proposers that there is always a need to look at opportunities to protect the Danish benefit system. But the question here today is whether the proposal to withdraw sovereignty is in line with the size of the challenge, in relation to the situation Denmark is in, and what the consequences will be. Firstly, the Danish benefit system has actually proved robust in relation to the increasing internationalisation. This was also concluded last year in their main report, and in other words in this proposal we will shoot grey sparrows with guns if it is adopted. Secondly, it will be a completely uncertain situation in which Denmark is placed, because while Danish law allows us to withdraw sovereignty, it is doubtful whether EU law does so. Denmark has not taken that step in the past and whether it means a breach of the Treaty or it means a complete withdrawal of the European Union is quite uncertain. Thirdly, we believe that the benefit system can be protected by other means. We have the opportunity to do so in the context of the discussion on the definition of the concept of worker, and the possibility also comes when the mobility package is presented in the autumn. In other words, we believe much more in changing legislation within the EU system and EU law than in withdrawing sovereignty. Against this background, we cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130244	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, the first is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130251	Now the rapporteur said that it was shooting grey sparrows with cannons, and then I just have to ask whether the rapporteur really wants to maintain the claim when what we see is that the number of East Europeans on daily allowances has quadrupled in five years and that the number of East Europeans taking their daily allowance home after a short stay in Denmark is something similar to 12-fold. Is it really still the rapporteur's view that this is really no problem at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130328	No, and that's not what I said either. I think this is the first time in the debates we have had over the last few months that I have actually agreed with something the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has said, and I actually thought he would be glad that I did. I said, in a way, that we recognise that issue. I also think it is a problem that there are many, especially if the system is abused and so on. However, I believe that these matters can be changed both within national legislation, but also for that matter by changing the rules within the EU system and EU law, and that is what we are seeking. What my statements about shooting grey sparrows with cannons were about was placing Denmark in the very uncertain situation, it would be taking the step of withdrawing sovereignty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130413	First of all, I can assure the rapporteur that this rapporteur is always happy and cheerful. There is every reason to be. However, I would just like to try to identify what it is that the rapporteur thinks we can do by national means in order to counter it here. On the contrary, it says that the European Commission is tightening the screw on a country such as the United Kingdom. Finland, which has taken the same path as Denmark. How is it that the rapporteur believes that we can protect the Danish benefit system better than we do today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130450	First of all, the Commission came up with a number of different proposals on how this could be done. However, I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that where action is to be taken, we are changing the rules within the EU system and within EU law. That is where serious action must be taken. We are of the opinion that withdrawing sovereignty on this issue does not match the real challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130511	Thank you, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, and the next brief remark is from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130518	Thank you. I would also like to find out what a challenge the rapporteur really thinks it is. A resident must have been a member of an unemployment insurance fund for 12 months as one of the conditions for obtaining the benefit and having completed 1 year's work in the last 3 years. However, let us first take the question of 12 months' membership of an insurance fund where there must be paid quotas as one of the conditions for obtaining cash benefits. Does the rapporteur think that it is reasonable for foreign workers, by virtue of EU rules and precisely the principle of aggregation that we are discussing here, to be able to come to this country and obtain benefit rights after a few weeks of work, where you have 10 hours of work a week? Does the rapporteur think that is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130608	No, I do not think that is fair, and I do not think I have said that either. What I have said is whether we think we have the opportunity to solve that challenge by changing something and influencing the other countries, influencing the EU system and changing the conditions of EU law for it here, or whether it aims to withdraw sovereignty and then place us in a situation of great uncertainty as to what it really will mean. That's what I've been dealing with. In fact, I think it is possible to negotiate better agreements in this area. We have seen that, among other things. in the whole discussion on indexing the children's cheque, and that is the view we stand on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130643	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130644	I guess it's not that uncertain what can happen. It may happen that we get the European Court of Justice on its back, but then we have been involved in a discussion on the principles that we want to work on in the European Union. I guess the danger isn't bigger. But I do not understand what the rapporteur has his optimism in. The former Socialist Minister for Employment, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, did not. She would not even, as Enhedslisten suggested, do the same as the Finns, so that we were completely loaded and burst with the Finnish Government in what they had done up there. This would not even be done by the former Socialist Government. There we got the same song: we talk to the Commission a little. In other words, how will the rapporteur ensure that there is equality between resident workers and foreign workers when it comes to obtaining the right to benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130740	First of all, on this issue, I am confident that the government can actually run this case. I really think that the pressure that was brought to bear and where the British were caught up in the matter of indexing the children's cheques showed that it is possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130755	Thank you, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421130815	Thanks for the full title. All of it and thank you for the floor. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Danish People's Party and, as the Minister also mentioned, there are some good intentions in the proposal, which the Left also supports. We can support it some way along the way, because we also think it is unfair that you can raise various welfare benefits, including daily allowances, from the time you have been in Denmark for quite a short time. It is a set of rules which open up abuses and which are not considered reasonable. What we are working on is that some kind of waiting period could be introduced, but this must be done within the context in which the European Union operates. But where the chain jumps off, and what makes us unable to support the proposal, is that the Danish People's Party apparently imagines and now I quote from the motion for a resolution that we can simply inform the European Union that we are withdrawing sovereignty from the European Union, so that Danish legislation makes it possible to introduce profit principles that disregard the so-called principle of aggregation. Quote out. When you are a member of an association, you observe the statutes of the association, and in this case we are a member of the European Union, and that also means, of course, that we are obliged to respect EU law. And compliance with EU law means, among other things, that we in Denmark cannot simply withdraw sovereignty in time and prematurely, from what we might want here in the Danish Parliament. Theoretically, of course, we can, because you can imagine anything, but this will have a number of far-reaching consequences for our continued cooperation in the European Union, and I think the Danish People's Party is aware of this as well. If you could just choose on and off and then regret it 14 days after you joined or resigned, there would be no basis for binding joint cooperation within the European Union. Last time I checked, the party behind today's motion for a resolution, i.e. the Danish People's Party, was a party that calls itself EU-sceptic, but not EU-opposed. I have also recently heard that the Danish People's Party, in the event that the British vote no, that is to say to their vote, so that we have a Brexit, believes that we should then consider whether we should continue to be a member of the European Union. And that is why it is perhaps today that we can get the Danish People's Party to answer some questions, because where do we stand? Do you want us to remain a member of the European Union, or do you want us to leave the European Union? If the first is the case, how will we ensure that we can still be involved in those parts of the cooperation that make sense? Of course, I am thinking in particular of the free movement of workers, which is what we are discussing today and which is one of the prerequisites for us to have a strong European economy. With today's motion for a resolution, I think it is very clear that the Danish People's Party does not quite know which leg it will stand on in relation to European cooperation. For it is quite clear that if we had to decide to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, Denmark would have to take a trip around the European Court of Justice to have its case tried, and thus the overall membership of the current cooperation would be a thread. Is that really what the Danish People's Party wants? In the Left, we have no doubt. We continue to support Danish membership of the European Union, and we also support compliance with law and law, including international law, including EU law. However, as I also mentioned in my introduction, I would like to emphasise that we naturally agree that there are some problems and that we are working to ensure that, among other things, we do. It should not be possible to obtain full children's cheques for families living in other countries with lower costs than in Denmark, but that work is done within the framework of the current binding cooperation. I would also like to say that, although there are opportunities for abuse, a principle of aggregation is sensible enough, otherwise, for example, one could imagine that a Danish worker who, in winter, was a shipwreck on a ski slope in Sweden or Austria and in summer worked in Tivoli would not be entitled to a daily allowance, because it would take him twice as long for him to be able to receive a daily allowance, and that is surely not a fair way to treat Danish workers who take advantage of the free movement of workers. So a transfer of sovereignty on this point would also very much be detrimental to Danish workers. So the Left will vote against the motion. We think that is such a bit of teasing on the part of the Danish People's Party, and there must also be room for that, and we look forward to a good debate, but we shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131337	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131341	Yes, but what we in the Danish People's Party want with this proposal is to test the Minister for Justice's statement from 2 December, the day before the Danes were to vote on the reservation of law, when the Minister for Justice said to Information, and now I quote: "It is not difficult to go down in the Folketing and pass a law with 90 mandates behind it and say that sovereignty is now being withdrawn. "It's not hard," he said. And that is also why we write in the proposal that we can simply inform the European Union, because that is what the Minister of Justice says. When I hear the rapporteur's speech here, it sounds to me as if the rapporteur is justified by his own party colleague, the Minister for Justice, who therefore believes that this is something we can just communicate to the European Union. So, if the rapporteur is so concerned about the problem that the rapporteur says he is, why on earth is the rapporteur not voting for this proposal and thus showing that what the rapporteur's party colleague, the Minister for Justice, indicated in information is also the right thing to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131442	I don't think so, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth correctly refers. I do not think this is a proper way of referring to the Minister for Justice, because what the Minister for Justice said in the next sentence was the following: on the other hand, the consequences can be large or small. We do not know that, because it will ultimately be up to the European Court of Justice. In other words, it is clear that it will be an infringement of EU law and that it will have consequences for Denmark. But, of course, you can do it, just like Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth can also choose to take off all the clothes and stand naked in the Assembly Hall. It's not hard, he can just do that, but it will have consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131518	Hm, yeah. Jan E. Jørgensen I am pleased that the President agrees). That's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131525	Just as I would like to be spared to see a naked Jan E. Jørgensen, I will spare the spectators to see the same in my case. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he agrees with what Rebecca Adler-Nissen, a professor of political science at the University of Copenhagen, said as a commentary on the Minister of Justice's statement, namely that: that is why it has to be said that basically the table will catch politically if we endorse a legislative act. Quote out. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131602	I agree that when you agree to a piece of legislation, you are bound by it. But that doesn't mean that one day you can't regret it. We can also regret the whole of our EU cooperation. We can step out of the European Union completely. In other words, we are still a sovereign nation which can decide to withdraw from EU cooperation, and for that matter also partly, but that would have some dramatic consequences. And if you just did it in this way, which is clearly in conflict with EU law, then it would have violent consequences. And would it be in Danish interest for the other Member States to behave as irresponsiblely as the Danish People's Party suggests that Denmark should do?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131638	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131641	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. My question should not now be interpreted as supporting the Danish People's Party's proposal. I'll get back to that. But I think there should be some reasonable argument. For, as I read the Danish People's Party's proposal, they propose nothing more than what the Left itself carried out in 2010 when the Left sat in government with the Conservatives. A principle of income was introduced in order to qualify for children's checks, which meant that you would have to stay in this country for two years out of the last 10 years in order to be entitled to a child's check. There were many who criticized it for the fact that it would be contrary to EU law. The opposition did so, as the government's own officials showed, had warned against it, but the Left flatly rejected the fact that there was no problem as far as EU law was concerned. The rapporteur of the Left, together with the Minister for Employment, is now standing up and saying that the Danish People's Party's proposal will not be supported because it will be against the Treaty. So I'm just asking, what's this all about?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131748	Well, the Left and the government don't think so anymore. There has been a process and, like any other law, EU law can be complicated. But I also believe that the issue of the free movement of workers must be looked at in a fundamental way. In other words, the Left is in favour of the free movement of workers, and that is why we also recognise that, for example, such things as unemployment benefits are something to be able to earn, even if you work in different countries. So the children's check is a bit strange, because is it a pure welfare benefit, or is it related to working? Originally, it was, in fact, a tax credit that was then converted into a grant, so the children's cheque is not quite as clean as the daily allowance, and therefore there were various assessments of what could be done and what could not be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131849	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131851	We're gonna take all the kids' checks and cash benefits later. What the rapporteur admits is that the Left was wrong in 2010 when the Left sat in government. The Left was also wrong in 2014, when the Left, along with the rest of the bourgeois parties, said that the Conservatives' proposal, which would oblige the government to administer under the law passed by the Left, was not contrary to EU law. The Left was wrong in that discussion. Can we not just recognise that the whole show that the Left performed in 2014 was just a show that was really about presenting itself as if you were extremely critical of the European Union because you were now on your way into an election campaign to the European Parliament? Why don't we just hold it there for a second?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421131942	No, I don't want to, and it doesn't come as a surprise to sir either. Finn Sørensen, admit it was a show. It was an important debate which was put on the agenda, which has led to the fact that if the British vote 'yes', we will have the opportunity to index the children's cheque. It will then be the case that what you then get in children's checks, if your children are staying in a country with lower living costs than Denmark, is indexed according to that country's living conditions. So the whole exercise has produced results, so I will not admit that it was a show. I also believe that Mr. Finn Sørensen would have been very, very surprised if I had agreed with him on that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132024	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132028	Thank you. What is being said may seem a little strange. Because if you think of it, like Mr. Søren Pind, our current Minister for Justice, said that it was in this way an argument or a move to get people to vote in favour of something in connection with the European Union, one might ask: is that what is speculating in the Left? Instead of dealing with reality, we are manipulating it a little in order to get the people to vote in favour of something that the Left really wants. Or what is the situation here? Is that sir? Søren Pind, who is right, or is it the rapporteur who is right about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132109	I don't think I understood the question. I understood so much, sir. Søren Pind, the Minister of Justice, and I should mean something different. We don't. I'm just asking that when you quote Mr. Søren Pind, you do it properly and honestly, so take the whole quote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132127	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132129	Well, it is, sir. Søren Pind, the Minister for Justice, has said that it was a trick to get the people to vote 'yes' in relation to the European Union. That is how I understand it, and if that is how I misunderstood what Mr. Søren Pind has said he's welcome to tell me. My question is simply: is the Left doing one to get the people to vote in favour of what they want to do in the European Union and to work for something else in the European Union? Or what about it? What do you do? It is obviously not contrary to the Treaty if we are to introduce rules here, but the Left believes that it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132213	I'm sorry. We'll have to take it after. I simply do not understand the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132219	There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132222	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen said that there had been a process since 2014. Is not the process just that the Left was then in opposition and that the Left is now in government? An opportunistic and populist campaign was conducted at the time, because one had to compete with the Danish People's Party, and therefore all previous principles and what had previously been done and had been committed to Europe. Now you are in government, and now there is, like another responsibility and something else to take into account. Isn't that the reason for that? Isn't that the process?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132301	I really like sir. Holger K. Nielsen, who has been sitting in here for quite a long time. And I also believe that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is aware that if the question was formulated in a different way, we could probably have a good dialogue. But I know that sir... Holger K. Nielsen is not so optimistic to imagine that I should agree that it was just such a populist thing that we meant because we were in opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132332	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132333	No, I do not have much optimism about the answers I get from the Left. I can say that I am actually interested. I was sitting as tax minister at the time when it landed on our table, and there was no doubt at all about the entire legal expertise that we asked and I asked a lot about the fact that the profit principle was contrary to EU law. There was no doubt whatsoever. And with such a clear message, I was absolutely sure that the Left would back it up. I was absolutely sure. I was reasonably surprised, not to say shocked, when I realised that the Left was running a populist line here and therefore suddenly would not support what the Court would actually say and, as the experts said, would be the legal correct thing in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132424	It has certainly happened that a good solution has been found, not the next day, not tomorrow, but a good solution has been found which will allow the children's cheque to be indexed. And then I won't give character to the way it happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132443	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132504	Sorry I'm late, President. Regarding the proposal from the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten agrees with the intention that if we in this country believe that things should be done in a certain way and that we are not satisfied with the way in which the EU regulates it, we should take advantage of the opportunity, which the Minister of Justice made clear to the vote on 3 December, that we can withdraw sovereignty. After all, it is important to make it clear that this is actually the case. After all, the impression has gradually spread that if only some say that we should not do so for the European Union, we should not do so. It is important that the whole population knows that if we want to do so, we can do so. We must then be prepared to take the consequences that may be, and I think that the Danish People's Party is also aware that there can of course be the consequence that you are then dragged before the Court and are judged and all sorts of things, and then you can take stock of it. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for clarifying that. Having said that, I must say that, unfortunately, as the Danish People's Party has drafted the proposal, we cannot support it, and this is because the Danish People's Party, and I had just said again, ties this issue of increased sovereignty over policy areas with the fact that it must absolutely be for the purpose of establishing profit principles for universal welfare services. The daily allowance is not a universal welfare benefit. I last commented on it and in this way there are quite a lot of things mixed into the proposal, but they are at least part of it. There we have a fundamental disagreement, a fundamental disagreement with the Danish People's Party, and we hope to convince the Danish People's Party that it will also have the exact opposite effect of what they sometimes say they want to achieve. We take the view that if you are taxable in this country and you fulfil the obligations associated with it, then you must also have the right to collectively funded welfare benefits, regardless of how long you have been in Denmark and regardless of nationality. It is, of course, the whole basis of the collective welfare system that we have that those who pay taxes are entitled to benefits and that it is not a question of how long they have paid their taxes. That is absolutely fundamental. If we look at the world of reality, we will see that it is also crucial to do so in relation to foreign workers, because if we introduce these principles of profit that the Danish People's Party would like to see in more and more areas, then it won't take much time until we have a large amount of money what should we say? And what will the consequence be? It will be even more wage dumping, even more social dumping, because the group of people who do not have the same security as the rest of us when they become unemployed and ill and what else it may be will, of course, be at the mercy of any employer who is ready to speculate on getting the labour force cheapest possible. So that is our reason why we cannot support the proposal. Another reason is that if we are finally to withdraw sovereignty, we think that this is the whole area of social policy where the European Union has increasingly interfered with the promises made when Denmark was going to vote on membership of the European Community, and in the context of the major Treaty changes that have taken place, the Maastricht Treaty and so on. Every time we have been told: this will not affect the Danish collective agreement system, it will not affect the Danish welfare model. The reality has shown that that promise did not stand up, and therefore the whole parliament should agree to adopt in principle that we should withdraw sovereignty in the whole area of social policy. So just a few remarks about the unemployment benefits: Well, unemployment benefits are not a universal welfare benefit. It's not a service you get the right to just because you pay taxes. It is a benefit to which you can only obtain the right if you are a member of an unemployment insurance fund for a whole year and that you can also perform 1 year's work within the last 3 years. In our view, these are far too stringent requirements, but that is the way the requirements are. Here, too, the Enhedslisten is in favour of equality, and that is why we are opposed to what is happening today, when EU law has ruled that a foreign worker, as it says, can come to this country and obtain benefit rights by working 10 hours a week for 14 days. It would be nice if we could get there, that that was the rule that applied, but then it should apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421132958	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133002	I'm just gonna have a word with Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen, if he does not agree that when it comes to how attractive Denmark is as a destination for a foreign employee, an employee from the EU, it is really the whole package that needs to be addressed. In other words, that is what is called pay, and that is also what is called social benefits and tax benefits. It is therefore the whole package that must be sufficiently attractive for an Eastern European worker, for example, to choose to move to Denmark and work. Don't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133038	Of course, people are also looking at the whole package, but that is my impression and it is actually not documented that it should be different • that when Eastern Europeans come here, it is because they want a job at a better salary than they can get at home. Over. Done. There is no evidence of all this welfare tourism. This is something that civil politicians in particular have been busy driving in the field, because it can, like it, be used as a breaker to break up some very fundamental principles we have for the right to welfare benefits in this country. So I do not share the rapporteur's concern on this point. And now my time is up, but I'll add to it later.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133122	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133125	See, I'm having a really hard time understanding that. Because if we now imagine the situation of Eastern European citizens who came to Denmark to work, for example. had no tax advantages, e.g. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not have the right to free treatment in our health system and so on, will the rapporteur really subscribe to the view that it is of no significance at all? If only he could come to Denmark and get 50, 60, 65 kroner. I simply cannot imagine that the rapporteur actually believes in all the external circumstances.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133204	Well, I didn't say it doesn't matter. I actually started by saying: yes, it probably also plays some role. But it is our clear impression and my clear impression that when Eastern European workers come to this country, it is primarily to get a job where they can earn a decent wage. And there we see it as such that if they fulfil the obligations of this country, in this case, it concerns the issue of paying taxes, because they do not have any tax advantages in that sense, that is to say more, than others do, since it is the same rules that apply to all of them, they must also have the same rights. That's where the waters are completely separated. We have a problem with the children's check, but it consists of a completely different principle that Dansk Folkeparti will not do away with here. And it is, of course, the right to export the children's check, that is to say, to send the children's check out of the country, even if the children are not staying in this country. There we have the clear position, which is also described in the law, that children's cheques should, as a rule, be paid if children are staying in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133307	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133315	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance fully agrees with the political objective of this motion for a resolution, namely that the free movement of workers should not be the free movement of welfare services. In the Liberal Alliance, we strongly support the principles of the free movement of workers. The freedom to settle in another European country, to take a job, to live and to learn about life outside its borders is absolutely a good thing for every European citizen. We must safeguard that right, not only for the sake of the individual, but also because it is a very great advantage for our companies that they can recruit employees across European borders without too much effort. But the right to take a job in another country should not be the same as the right to raise welfare checks in another country. There must be room for diversity within the framework of European cooperation, and there is a great difference in how we have arranged our welfare services from north to south and from east to west in Europe, and that is how it should be. When it is then experienced that e.g. Children's cheques circulate across national borders, challenge Europe's cohesion, and I am concerned that in the long term it can challenge support for the very principle of the free movement of workers. That is why we need clarity on the rules. There is a need to separate the right to take a job in another country from the right to receive cash welfare benefits in another country if we want to ensure the free movement of workers, and we do so in the Liberal Alliance. We therefore agree with the political objective pursued by the motion for a resolution, but we do not agree with it. The proposers want the Folketing to require the government to notify the EU that Denmark withdraws sovereignty. It is not the right way to solve the problem that Member States should inform the EU that EU rules which are contrary to national specific interests do not apply to the Member State concerned. Imagine if France thought that the ban on national state aid for example. It was not intended to apply to France, that Poland announced that the climate objectives did not apply to them, or that Spain thought that the rules on data roaming should be abolished in Spain so that serious and constructive cooperation could not, of course, work. In the view of the Liberal Alliance, on the other hand, Denmark should be in favour of countries which fail to meet their obligations having much greater consistency than is the case today. Sovereignty is not something you can just take back. In fact, that is precisely why we in the Liberal Alliance, during the election campaign and in the debates leading up to the referendum on the abolition of the reservation last year, insisted that, when we surrender sovereignty, this should be done according to a proper procedure respecting the principles of Paragraph 20 of the Constitution. That is precisely because sovereignty is not something you just go back home like that. So I do not agree with the Minister for Justice that the Folketing can simply decide to take sovereignty back, and that is why the surrender of sovereignty must be done with care and with the support of either five sixths of the members of the Folketing or from the citizens in a referendum. Sovereignty isn't something you shouldn't go and walk back and forth. We insisted on this last year, we insist on that today, and the Liberal Alliance cannot therefore support the resolution. Then I have promised to announce from the Alternative's rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, who regrets not being present, does not support the motion for a resolution either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133711	Thank you. And there are three brief comments. The first one's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133716	Thank you. I therefore believe that I would ask the rapporteur to read the legal statement made by the Minister for Justice. The Minister of Justice is absolutely right that Denmark can withdraw sovereignty at any time, as long as we are ready to take the consequences. It is as simple as that in which the current Minister of Justice is absolutely right. But what I want to ask is the policy of the Liberal Alliance in this area. Because I cannot come to any other conclusion on what the rapporteur is just saying here than that the Liberal Alliance was also wrong in 2014 when it was claimed that it was not contrary to EU law to maintain the interpretation of the principle of profit that was laid down in the Children's Check Act introduced by the VKO. So was the Liberal Alliance also wrong in 2014, like the Left did?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133821	Thank you for clarifying the Minister for Justice's statements. I agree with that. In relation to the second and what the Liberal Alliance said back in 2014, I agree that this is not necessarily contrary to the Treaty. But what I am saying here today is that I do not think this is the way in which cooperation should work. I do not think there can be any solid, binding cooperation if the Member States simply state, at their discretion, that rules that they do not agree with do not apply to them. This does not mean that it is contrary to the Treaty, so if we do not support this, it is not because we believe it is contrary to the Treaty, but because we believe that this is not the right way to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133904	Thank you. But that only makes me repeat my question. For what the Liberal Alliance did in 2014, together with the other bourgeois parties, was precisely to maintain that EU rules should not apply when it comes to the principle of profit in relation to the children's cheque. And it was said that maintaining it would not be contrary to EU law. Politically, that was exactly what the Danish People's Party is proposing now, that is to say, that we should unilaterally announce that we are maintaining sovereignty in this area, even if EU law should perhaps say otherwise. So politically speaking, they were at least wrong in 2014. Can we have an admission of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421133947	No, you can't. For back in 2014, we felt that the free movement of labour should not develop politically into the free movement of welfare checks. We still believe that politically. When I think today that the right way to do this is not to announce that Denmark is now taking back sovereignty, because we do not like these rules................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the other side of the autumn, it needs to be reviewed and renegotiated, and I think that the right way to change these rules is, of course, to do so in the negotiations on the revision of Regulation 883. In that process, we will be tough on the fact that the government must of course negotiate wisely on behalf of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134036	The next brief remark is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134041	Thank you. It really annoys me that the Liberal Alliance cannot support this proposal, but that is the way it is. So I have to ask: is it the case that there is no time at all for the patience that the Liberal Alliance has with the European Union in creating an opportunity to do something about this, which the Liberal Alliance agrees with? In other areas, it has to be said that the patience of the Liberal Alliance is not very long. As far as, for example, we are concerned. tax relief jumps and jumps up the Liberal Alliance almost every day because no tax cuts have yet been made. But it sounds as if the patience in this field, which I really think is far worse, is so almost unlimited. Is there such an unlimited patience on the part of the Liberal Alliance to solve this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134132	The questioner is right that the patience of the Liberal Alliance, when it comes to tax cuts, will soon run out. There we have been stretching for many years. When it comes to this, it is actually a fundamental position on how a country should act within the framework of binding cooperation with other countries. As I said in my speech, I think it would be a sad precedent if a country simply announced that now there are some rules that it does not like and we do not like these rules; we do have two in common, so just announce that they do not apply to the country in question. There could also be, I could well imagine, areas where countries might announce that now you take back sovereignty in relation to rules that would upset the Danish People's Party. That is why it must be so in binding cooperation that the rules that exist seek to change according to the rules of the game and not simply by stating that what we do not like does not apply to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134227	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134229	That is a point of view and there we have different views. That's the way it is. However, I believe that I would like to ask the rapporteur something quite different. For now, the rapporteur of the Left gave up Mr Seligman's report. Jan E. Jørgensen from characterising or giving points to the statement made by the Minister for Justice that one can simply withdraw sovereignty by a simple decision here in the Folketing. So I would really like to know what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur's position on this is. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur considers the statement that came from the Minister for Justice the day before the vote, such as the President of the European Parliament, the President of the Court of Justice, the President of the Court of Justice, the President of the Court of Justice, the President of the Court of Justice, the President of the Court of First Instance, the President of the Court of Justice, the President of the Court of First Instance, the President of the Court of Justice, the President of the Court of First Instance, the
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134308	I do not think that the statement made by the Minister for Justice, as far as I remember on 2 December last year, was a wise statement, especially when one can see in what context the statement came, namely that it was the day before a referendum where exactly the principles of surrendering sovereignty were an essential part of the voting theme. Now I am not going to interpret the point made by the Minister for Justice, but there is, of course, in those statements a trivialisation of the issue of surrendering sovereignty, because, as the Minister for Justice said, it can simply be taken back. My point was that you can't just go back there. That is why, together with the Danish People's Party, we insist that when sovereignty is surrendered, it must be done with respect for the principles of the Constitution, either by a five-sixth majority for it here in the Folketing, or by having the support of more than half of the citizens entitled to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134404	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134407	I was so fond of LA's speech, not least for the many examples. Because that is not how you work with each other, that is to say you agree on a common agreement in one area or another, and then a country finds out that no, we do not want to do that anyway, and then the country withdraws from it. That's not gonna work. Cooperation must be binding. But I do not think it is fair for the LA or the Danish People's Party to misunderstand what the Minister of Justice said. For what the Minister for Justice said is absolutely correct, as the Enhedslisten also mentioned: we can withdraw sovereignty. But to say that he has said that this is something we are just for what is being said directly after is that it will have consequences. These may be major consequences; they may be minor consequences. It must be up to the European Court of Justice to decide. It would be contrary to EU law to do so. It will have consequences. But can you do that? Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134501	Those statements were, of course, part of a debate in which I very much disagreed with the Minister for Justice's observations on how to deal with the issue of the surrender of sovereignty. In this context, I think that the government and the Minister for Justice took too lightly the issue of the surrender of sovereignty. And as I say in my speech, sovereignty is not something you just have to go with. You don't do that when you hand it over, but you don't really do that when you want to take it back. And in the context of that debate, I think that the Minister for Justice took too lightly the principles of what procedure should take precedence when, as a country, you decide to surrender sovereignty, precisely because you do not just take it back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134546	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134547	Now the Minister of Justice is not here himself, and then his trusted squire has to go to jail for him. But I can at least say that it is of course unfortunate if it is read like that. But there are some who say that sovereignty can never be withdrawn. If something has first been thrown into the cage in the zoo, it must be considered lost forever. Denmark is a sovereign Member State which can always withdraw, if I may say one hundred percent of its sovereignty, because we can withdraw from the European Union. But are we willing to take the consequences? And if we went into a single area, are we willing to take the consequences? No, of course we're not. The Minister of Justice doesn't think so. I do not think so. And I'm glad the Liberal Alliance doesn't mean that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134631	That is how we can see that we do not really disagree when it comes to the question of withdrawing sovereignty. We agree that this should be done according to proper procedures, including in respect of the partners we have and to whom sovereignty has been given. Where we may still disagree, there is where it comes to the question of what procedure is ahead of surrendering sovereignty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134653	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134702	Thank you. We cannot support the proposal to withdraw sovereignty. We cannot do that because it is not possible. Because I would agree with the Minister for Justice that this is possible, but as Enhedslisten also says, it will not happen without consequences. I am afraid of the consequences that will have, but I also agree with the Liberal Alliance that this is not how we work together in Europe. Because there is no doubt that it will be deeply subversive to EU cooperation if you start shopping in commitments; there are some people you want to commit to and others you want to avoid. Because if it does happen without consequences, it will become a slippery path and set a precedent for others, and then the EU may end up where the Danish People's Party wants it to end up, but that is where many of us do not want it to end up. So to the issue of freedom of movement and access to welfare services. There is no doubt that freedom of movement is an important cornerstone of the Danish economy, and we are, of course, opposed to speculation and abuse. But I do not think that we will ever get to a state where people come here and work and pay a high tax, but then they will not get some welfare benefits in return. For that is the whole foundation of the system we have in Denmark, namely that you pay a high tax, and in return you have access to a number of welfare benefits. That also applies to people who come here. But yes, it may be that there are some who speculate about it. I think, though, I even think it was sir. Finn Sørensen, who said that it is a minority who speculate. For the vast majority, it is a major and important contribution to the Danish economy that people are coming. Those who mainly take up the Danish People's Party may be those from Eastern Europe. Eastern Europeans are coming and making an important contribution to the Danish labour market. Very few people speculate about being welfare parasites. The vast majority actually come to take hard jobs and make a really important contribution to our economy and thus also to our welfare society, because they pay taxes and contribute to what they then also get an entitlement to. So we are opposed to the proposal for such a general reason, that is that we cannot simply withdraw sovereignty, because it would be a slippery path and that would have consequences for Denmark. If it does not, it will probably have major consequences for the European Union. This will have major consequences for free movement, which is very important for the Danish economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134943	Thank you. There are two brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421134949	Now Mrs Zenia Stampe says in her speech to the rapporteur that when you come to Denmark, you pay a high tax, and that is something you should expect to get back. I mean, not everyone does it. At any rate, there are currently quite a lot of so-called refugees. They come to Denmark, and they certainly do not pay a very high tax, but get quite, quite a lot again. Perhaps it could also be an idea to introduce some profit principles as far as that group is concerned. But let's just leave it alone. I was aware that the rapporteur said that this would be almost such an epoch-making moment when there would then be a country that did not do what the European Union said. Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is aware that there are other EU countries that have not implemented directives or regulations that the European Union has made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135039	First of all, I just have to ask what on earth refugees have to do with this discussion. But I can tell Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, that I read an article about a mother who is here with five children, i.e. a family of six, who has to make up for 3,000 kroner. a month. She'll have to cover everything with that. I must admit that I do not think that is a huge amount of money. I don't think that's what's emptying the treasury. But that really has nothing to do with this discussion. I have no knowledge of any specific cases. I am aware that many countries are concerned about this, because there are countries other than us that have been challenged on their systems, and they are afraid of this type of welfare shopping. But I also believe that we are more afraid than we really have reason to do. Because when we go down the numbers and see how extensive it is, it's not that extensive. But that is something we have agreed in the Folketing, namely that we must pay attention to it. I think it would be a very good starting point for this discussion to have in fact a little better figures for who is coming and working here and what access to services they have, etc. etc. Then we can keep up with it. But I have no doubt at all that if we have problems, they have to be solved in two ways and not in this way, as the Danish People's Party proposes. This needs to be resolved either by Danish legislation, which is within the scope of EU law, or by finding common solutions at the big EU table.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135206	Now there may be different views about what there is a lot of money, but I am still surprised that Zenia Stampe does not believe that 48 billion. kr. in accumulated expenditure up to 2020 is a lot of money. The Radical Left has apparently adopted an alternative economic policy or perhaps none at all. However, I did not receive an answer from the rapporteur to the question I asked. Is the rapporteur aware that there are other EU countries that have not implemented EU legislation in national legislation? Is that something that's unheard of? Isn't there a single example of it around the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135246	There are certainly examples of this, but we had a little earlier, before lunch, a debate in this Chamber, that when we tried to escape the commitments ourselves, we found that it was probably not within EU law, and then we corrected it. So this is an area in which I think several countries are constantly challenging EU law, but I also believe that many people are correcting it because they find out that if they continue to challenge it, it will also have consequences at some point. Then you can fantasize that we can get rid of some obligations, but would we think that it would be okay if there were all sorts of other countries that tried to get rid of obligations in this way? I don't think so. I think we would also say that we cannot just shop around in commitments. It must have consequences if other countries do so, because then it is a slippery slope. Then everyone does so, and in the end there are no common obligations, and then there is no longer anything called free movement. I would just like to say that it is absolutely essential for the Danish economy that it is absolutely essential for the welfare society, as I know Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth also cares that we have freedom of movement, that people come and contribute to our labour market and pay taxes, but also gets a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135347	The next brief remark is from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135350	Thank you. It is a question to the rapporteur about what she really thinks about the benefit. Does the rapporteur think that it is right for those who are called migrant workers from other EU countries to be able to come to this country and obtain benefits much, much easier than a resident employee? It is a question of coming to the country and obtaining the benefit right over a 14-day period with 10 hours of work a week or so, if you can prove that you have worked for one year in the last 3 years in other EU countries. On the other hand, a resident must be a member of a Danish insurance fund for a whole year before he or she can obtain the benefit. Is such discrimination reasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135439	It would not be fair to have the cash-box system we have in Denmark in all other countries. We would then have been able to say that you should have been a member of unemployment insurance in other countries. But when we do not have parallel systems, we cannot always make exactly the same demands. So I can also think that there may be cases where it does not seem quite fair. On the other hand, I do not think it would be fair to demand unemployment insurance either, because that would require workers who would not be able to comply at all because they do not have the same system in other countries as we do in our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135517	If and if. Well, is that fair, or is that not fair? I guess you can relate to that. So what is the conclusion of the rapporteur's minute attempt to respond? Is that fair, or is that not fair? And if it is not fair what I really think the rapporteur does not think it is, what will the rapporteur do about it, so that there will be real equality between migrant workers from other EU countries and workers living in this country? How does the rapporteur intend to ensure that equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135552	I think it's more reasonable that everything is relative here than if we had a reality where there were workers from certain countries who wouldn't be able to get this unemployment insurance because they happened to have a different system in their country. That would also be unfair. Unfortunately, however, I do not believe that we are in the area where we can operate with ultimate fairness and unreasonableness. Everything's relative. There is something that is more reasonable than anything else and something that is more unreasonable than anything else. I think we're here in such a grey area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135622	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135635	We are discussing many suggestions in the Folketing this time, and some are more strange than others. I have to say, this is a little weird. The text states: 'Proposal for a parliamentary decision to withdraw sovereignty from the EU', so you have to get the impression that this is a very big fundamental discussion about not having any more EU, that we have to withdraw from cooperation, etc., and when you read the comments, that is really what this is all about. There is a reference to some interview with the Minister for Justice, in which he says something about the withdrawal of sovereignty by 90 mandates, which he is quite right in. That is what this is all about, and this is linked to the whole question of daily allowances and children's checks. That is why the Minister for Employment is sitting here today, and I do not think that is a very welcome task. But it is really a debate on substitutes for what it is really about. What is the point of this is that the Danish People's Party will have tested the statement that we can withdraw sovereignty. We can, but we have to ask the Danish People's Party: why not do it consistently? We can, of course, withdraw from the European Union by a majority here in the Danish Parliament. We can do that tomorrow, if there is a majority in favour of it. Why not propose it instead, for that is what this is all about? It is not at all about unemployment benefit problems here in Denmark, and it is not at all about the children's check. It is about the fact that the Danish People's Party wants to have a conflict with the EU and ultimately have Denmark withdrawn from the EU. I think that should be said honestly, instead of running up this debate on substitutes, as is done in this proposal. We certainly think that there are problems with the whole unemployment benefit problem, which challenges the Danish benefit system. Others have explained this and hopefully we will have this resolved within the European Union. As far as the children's cheque is concerned, the problems are not so great, but they are there, and that is also why it is part of the British agreement and is something that has been taken seriously here in Denmark too. As I said before, I was sitting with it when I was Minister of Taxation, and it's challenging, but I think we can handle that. However, this discussion has little to do with what is the real intention of the Danish People's Party, namely that the Danish People's Party wants Denmark out of the EU. This is what this is for, and that is why we do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135940	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421135944	I'm gonna let sir. Holger K. Nielsen, that we would rather have seen that it was the Minister of Justice who was the minister on this proposal, but that is not possible under the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament. And that means that various ministers can come out and say anything in the press and then get others to sweep up after themselves. But these are the rules, and you have to follow them. In fact, it's with a certain awe that I'm asking Mr. Simpson. Holger K. Nielsen a question now, for the last time I was told that I was too young to ask Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Holger K. Nielsen question in the Parliamentary Chamber. But now I'm gonna venture to do it anyway, for Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says in his rapporteur's speech that he believes that this is a problem and that it needs to be resolved. Then I'd like to ask Mr. Holger K. Nielsen: How?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140027	The Danish Government is currently negotiating with the other countries on the whole question of children's checks. It will be part of the British agreement and will follow on from it, of course, depending on whether it will be a yes or no in England, I am in agreement with that, but it is on the agenda there. The problem of the daily allowance is not so topical right now, but it can be very quickly and the Danish Government has a readiness to do so. The Minister for Employment has informed us of this on several occasions. So I'm quite comfortable with the government handling these cases professionally and the way you're supposed to handle them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140105	After all, this says a lot about what EU policy has become in Denmark today, when you can hear Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says he is quite comfortable with the way the government handles it. It is, of course, paradoxical somewhere that we have reached the point that as long as there is an EU agenda, the Socialist People's Party is quite confident about the way in which the government handles both one and the other and the third, but if we have a domestic agenda, the government is almost the fiercest opponent. It seems to me that the Socialist People's Party has become a party which, like the dead fish, simply follows the tide down towards the waterfall, and then you fall over the edge there. Is there no such criticism of the EU system left by Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, or is it just a saga?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140152	I think these are strange pictures that are being used here, I have to say. And I shall not deal at all with the age of the questioner in this context. I shall not, for he remembers this for a very long time, I can understand it; it has made a great impression on him. I completely forgot I said that, but okay, the questioner didn't. But that is a problem, which is that you have an internal market and you have different welfare systems. It's a challenge to make it play together. Because when you have an internal market for labour and you have different welfare systems, you have a problem. And that is what is then being tried to solve and deal with at the moment. And I believe that there are many things on which I disagree with this government, but we all agree that the unemployment benefit system we have here in Denmark, the principles that exist for it, must be maintained, because it is an important part of the Danish model. There is no dispute about that here in Denmark, and that is why I think it is reasonable that we should then say that then the government must negotiate on the basis that we should be able to maintain that benefit system. It is challenging indeed, precisely because you have a welfare system such as the Danish, which is different from other welfare systems, in a context where there is an internal market also for labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140315	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140328	Thank you very much. To Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, I would like to say that it is already quite clear that we cannot maintain the principles that apply in the Danish benefit system. Well, that's quite clear. Because there are two principles. One is that you must have had 1 year's work out of the last 3 years in order to obtain benefit rights, and the other principle is that you must be a member of a Danish unemployment fund for 1 year. After all, we have not been able to maintain that principle when it comes to migrant workers from other EU countries. They can come here. You will be entitled to benefit within a few weeks' work of 10 hours per week. How will the rapporteur resolve this problem within the framework of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140413	You have this so-called aggregation principle. This means that the requirements to be met can also be met in other EU countries. It is obvious that there is a problem there. The second problem is that, if there are such different rates of benefit in different EU countries, the principle of aggregation can be used, if I may say so, to go where the highest rate of benefit can be obtained. Then we will not be able to maintain the Danish benefit system and then it will be undermined. That is what I think is the problem in this, and that is what we are debating. And I also understood what the Minister said that this is what is currently being negotiated with other EU countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140503	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140504	But, sir. Holger K. Nielsen, the principles we have in the Danish benefit system, does not exist in the other EU countries in Norway and Sweden, and that is also why we have been able to work with the Nordic countries on such things. But they do not exist in the other EU countries. How does the rapporteur intend to maintain that principle? Or rather, will the rapporteur recognise that we cannot resolve this within the EU rules unless we go the very other way, to which the Enhedslisten will be very receptive, and reduce the requirement for the acquisition of benefit rights, so that it comes down to the requirements that foreign workers have to meet, i.e. that you do not have to be a member of an unemployment fund for a whole year? How will the rapporteur resolve the problem within the framework of EU rules as long as this principle of aggregation is applied?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140600	Well, like I said, it's a challenge, isn't it? No one doubts that it does. But what the whole debate is about in the European Union at the moment is precisely how we are going to deal with the challenge of having an internal labour market on the one hand and having different welfare systems on the other. It is, of course, the discussion that is coming up in which Denmark has actively participated and in which we still have to take an active part. And I know that the Danish Government is prepared to be able to defend the Danish welfare benefits and also the Danish unemployment benefit rules as much as possible in that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140648	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no further brief comments to him. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421140706	Conservatives are in favour of the motion for a resolution. We think it is very positive that some funny resolutions are being tabled here in the Folketing. We do not intend to vote it through, but we think it is fun and has a high entertainment value. You can almost see how the Danish People's Party has been sitting and having fun when they were writing this motion for a resolution: we just decide that we withdraw sovereignty from the European Union, then it is done, then all the problems are solved. I think it's funny, but we all know it doesn't have time on earth. It is good to make it clear that Denmark can withdraw sovereignty. After all, the competence we have given to the European Union is only because we have given it to the European Union. So it is, after all, an authorisation we have given to that organisation through a voluntary agreement. And, of course, you can withdraw from voluntary agreements again, of course, agreements can be changed, and Denmark could easily announce that now there are some parts of the European Union that we are no longer members of. One should then just be aware that this will have some quite violent consequences probably. The European Union will then be able to say that they will then withdraw a whole lot of other things, ultimately Denmark's membership of the European Union. So, as a starting point, you have to abide by the agreements you have entered into. Of course, you can step out of them, and you can also choose to break them. As a sovereign country, you can do whatever you want. But it would be a very violent step to take in relation to this matter. If it had been a matter of crucial national importance, we would also support taking this step. In other words, if there were now a decision from the European Union that we should all speak German or that formbrog should be banned, then we would probably support a step like this, because it would be something completely unacceptable. Here we are talking about something important, namely profit principles for social services, but we are not talking about something so crucial for Denmark that we can put our entire membership of the European Union at risk in a very ill-considered process. Well, if we're going to do that, we have to think very carefully, we have to plan it, and then we need to know what we're doing. We can't just start throwing ourselves into a fight like this all of a sudden. I also think, moreover, if we were to do so, that there were other agreements that we would rather terminate in relation to taking such a fight • Roskilde peace or something might have a higher priority if we really had to take such a huge battle as would be planned with this. So all in all there are points to the Danish People's Party to draw up the entertainment value, politics should not be so boring, so I think it is excellent. But where we have to give a 10 for entertainment value, so we are probably giving a 1 for seriousness, and of course we are not voting through the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141015	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141019	Thank you. My question is: why is it now suddenly not so crucial to take a positive view of what the Danish People's Party is proposing here? This was very crucial for the VKO government in 2010 when a law on the management of the principle of income was adopted, which was clearly in breach of EU rules. This was also very crucial for the Conservatives in 2014 when the Conservatives proposed that this law should now be respected, so why is it suddenly not crucial anymore? Just one supplementary question: has Conservatives changed their attitude and perception of whether what was adopted in 2010 and what would be maintained in 2014 was contrary to EU rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141107	I also said in my speech that this is, of course, an important issue. I said it was less important than if we, for example. were ordered to speak German, or if the formbrog or Roskildefreden were banned. But that doesn't mean it's not important. This is an important issue, and it is an important battle that we must take, and we must also challenge the European Union in this area, because we have no desire for the European Union to develop into such a social union, where it is not the labour force that will be black, but where people are looking for the greatest possible welfare benefits. So this is certainly an important issue and it requires a more serious approach than is envisaged in this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141148	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141148-2	Thank you. I don't think I got an answer to my question. That was very crucial for the Conservatives in 2014. You tabled a motion for a resolution calling for the then Socialist Government to comply with the law in force. And the law in force was the law adopted by the VKO majority in 2010 which was clearly in breach of EU rules. That was said at the time by the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mr Conservatives. Brian Mikkelsen said that what was proposed was not contrary to EU law, but that it was prepared to take a stand with the Court of Justice. Then I just ask, why is this no longer important? And the difference isn't just the one, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen asked the rapporteur of the Left that he was then the Conservatives in opposition, while the Conservatives are now the parliamentary basis of a bourgeois government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141241	I think, sir. Finn Sørensen has been following badly, because as late as this morning we adopted motion for a resolution B 48, which deals with precisely this. It is to emphasise that this is not a fight we have abandoned or something we have changed our attitude towards. So, no, we have not changed our mind about that, and we are continuing that fight as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141301	The next brief remark is from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141305	In fact, it was the same as Mr. Finn Sørensen mentioned, because I am here with a press release from Lars Barfoed from 1 March 2014, that is to say, about two years ago, when it is written that a resolution is now ready, i.e. the Conservative People's Party, which obliges the government to ensure that the payment of child benefit is made in accordance with the law adopted by the Danish Parliament, and thus, and now it is I who speaks in violation of EU law, that is, what the European Commission considered to be EU law at that time. I'm just thinking, what's the difference between this and this? Is it not really just the Danish People's Party that is really more honest because they come here and say that it requires us to withdraw sovereignty, because then we can introduce these principles of profit? They are really doing it in two rounds, where you actually just went down to the Parliamentary Chamber and said: well, now we just have to do what we want, and then we look very much at the fact that we have really given up sovereignty here. What is the difference between what was in your resolution at the time and what the Danish People's Party has proposed with this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141409	Our policy in this area is enshrined in the resolution we have just adopted this morning, which is called B 48. There you can read a somewhat more nuanced strategy on how to prevent these principles of profit from destroying our ability to manage for ourselves what welfare benefits are to be paid out. And we therefore have a very clear call to the government, for which the Left itself has also voted, for us to continue working on this and to look for every opportunity to challenge the European Union in this area. But that does not mean that we are just informing the European Union that they can go and have nothing to say in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141455	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141457	So it is not going to happen again for the time being that you, down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, insist on implementing legislation, even if it is contrary to EU law? This is not something we should expect from the Conservative People's Party again?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141512	It is not our starting point that this is the way we make legislation. That we could find ourselves in some ultimate situation where we had to do something that was contrary to EU law, I should not be able to reject it, but at least a great deal needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141529	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no more brief comments. The last rapporteur is the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421141546	First of all, I would like to thank the Danish Parliament for its consideration of our motion for a resolution. I even noted that the Conservative rapporteur was told that the party was in favour, but then it became so qualified a little later, and then the party was probably most opposed, but peace was with it. That's the way it is. In general, there is little support for the proposal in this Chamber, and this is, moreover, despite the fact that a broad circle of parties here in the Folketing has problematized the fact that EU citizens have too easy access to, for example, daily allowances. The minister himself said, for example. to Politiken on 21 September 2015 about the per diem allowances: • There should be the possibility of a waiting period of a certain size, where you can demand that you have worked for example a few months, as we do in Denmark now. That is precisely the special requirement that the Commission wants to get rid of. In the event that the British vote to remain a member of the EU in the June referendum, Denmark will have the opportunity to index child benefit to children whose parents are living in Denmark but who are themselves in the parents' home country. I recognise that this is a small step in the right direction, but it is not at all the principle of profit which the government itself wanted as recently as in the consultation held in the Tax Committee on 27 October. It then leaves several different options. Either you can settle for it or you can choose to challenge the EU system. The Minister for Justice has been quite clear here. On 2 December, the Minister said to Information: "It is not difficult to go down in the Folketing and pass a law with 90 mandates behind it and say that sovereignty is now being withdrawn. On the other hand, the consequences may be large or small. We do not know that, because it will ultimately be up to the European Court of Justice. Now I know that this has been said the day before an important referendum, but, nevertheless, what politicians are saying must be trusted, even on the day before a referendum. Here, the Minister for Justice has it presented as if it were quite straightforward to take back sovereignty from the European Union. It just takes a vote here in the Folketing, and then it's potted out. I am sorry that the Minister for Employment has stood here today and not the Minister for Justice. I'm sure we've all seen such an unvorn baby spilling milk down oneself and on the floor just to get a little beard in the street. And then there's Dad and Mom, and then they're gonna dry up. In fact, I see today's debate in the same way. The Minister for Justice has simply piled up the kitchen floor with milk and oatmeal, and now the Minister for Employment has sent out to dry up. This is not, in itself, a task which I, under the responsibility of the Minister for Employment, but now the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament are so put together that the ministers have their portfolios, and if a minister has said any nonsense in the territory of another minister, then he cannot be called to account in the Chamber. And then it is the Minister for Employment who must stand up for the Minister for Justice in this matter. What I cannot understand, and which many Danes probably cannot understand, is, since it is so easy, as the Minister of Justice says, to withdraw sovereignty to Denmark, why not just do it. Why, then, does the Danish Parliament not just vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal so that we can introduce all the profit principles we want and be the master of who should have access to Danish daily allowances? One must then understand that in the real world it is because it is not quite as easy as the Minister for Justice tried to deceive the Danes the day before the referendum on the reservation of the law. It's actually hard. It is actually impossible because the EU believes that EU rules prevail over Danish laws, and here in the Folketing it is the case that the basic premise is accepted by virtually everyone. That is also why experts from experts have indicated that it was not just something that was just done by going down to the Parliamentary Chamber. After all, there is no possibility in the EU Treaty that Member States can leave EU laws individually. Once you have said yes, it is a yes in the context of EU law, and then there is no right of withdrawal. I wish there was. It was fantastic if the wonderful buffet, which I often heard in the election campaign before the legal vote that the abolition of the reservation would result in, was actually so arranged that one could not continue to eat if one had found out that the otherwise appealing right that one has got east on the plate did not turn out to be one's taste anyway. But it's not like that. Once you've easted up, you have to eat up. There is, of course, an opportunity to leave the whole of the European Union at once. You can always do that. But it is, after all, a decision with quite far-reaching consequences. Fortunately, this has now become a 'no' vote in the referendum of 3 December. But what if it had been a yes? Could Denmark have only regretted the endorsement, as the Minister of Justice more than suggested? No, Denmark could not. That is why, with a parallel agreement on Danish participation in Europol, we are more free, because such an agreement can, if it is, be denounced without further ado, just as we would be able to terminate our participation in Schengen today, which is also based on a parallel agreement. There should be no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party would like to see complete control over who has access to Danish welfare benefits ranging from training support to child benefit to unemployment benefit. However, we must note that this right is left to the European Union and that Denmark cannot withdraw it without breaking our EU legal obligations, regardless of the fact that several parties in the Folketing have at least made reservations to that effect in the past. What can you learn from this debate and this whole thing? One can learn that politicians should probably be a little more precise and more honest with our people about Danish membership of the European Union and that in an EU legal approach there is a one-way street. The surrender of sovereignty is the surrender of sovereignty, and if we are to have it back again, it is first and foremost because the European Union is willing to return it to us, not only to Denmark, but to all EU countries. This is also the lead we would like to pursue in the Danish People's Party. We want a fundamental reform of the EU system; we want a system that can win the support of the people, but this presupposes that the European Union actually starts to return power to the nation states, because, as today's debate shows, we cannot do it ourselves without having a major impact on Denmark. I am sorry that there has not been a majority of 90 seats in the Danish Parliament today in order to resolve the problem of the principles of profit in the not difficult way that the Minister of Justice has indicated. I do not think there is much to suggest that we are going much further as far as the principle of aggregation is concerned. On the contrary, we run the risk of facing a situation in which we have to relax the Danish safeguard rules if Finland loses the case that the European Commission has brought against the country, because the Finns have ventured to impose an employment requirement of 4 weeks on EU citizens who want to benefit from Finnish benefits. But we'll see what happens in that case. Then it may well be that it will be time to retable this proposal in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142347	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142350	Thank you. I'd like to read up a Piet Hein crawl: A favored form of polemics/consists in the probate trick/to dutte people an opinion on,/whose madness everyone can understand. Well, that's exactly what Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is doing in relation to the complete shame reading of the Minister of Justice's quote, which he is discussing. I don't know if sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth hasn't understood the quote, or if he just pretends he doesn't understand it. I think it is the last, and I hope it is the last, because the Minister for Justice does not say that we can simply withdraw sovereignty and then nothing happens, but he says clearly: yes, we can withdraw sovereignty, but that will have consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142436	In fact, I think more and more that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen reminds me of Sancho Panza, and I don't know if the Minister of Justice is Don Quixote. But I have to say that if something is crazy about this, it is the fact that the Minister for Justice, the day before a decisive referendum takes place, goes out and binds the Danes the story on the sleeve that there is a right of withdrawal in relation to that vote. Imagine if we had now obtained a vote where a few hundred votes might have decided that it had been a yes and that those votes were secured because the Minister for Justice had tied them that story on his sleeve. That would have been tragic. Fortunately, this did not happen, but I think it is important that, as a politician and then, as a minister in particular, we weigh our words and think carefully before sending out any signals. And I find it difficult to experience what happened on 2 December as anything but a trick and an attempt to get the Danes to say yes to something that they did not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142538	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142539	I do not think that the Danish People's Party should enter into a competition about who deceives people into things and cases in connection with EU votes. It was also the Danish People's Party that said that we could then just get a parallel agreement in one area, the other or the third, and who said: "What is the government waiting for, send that letter away, then it is no more difficult. Well, it's a competition I don't think the Danish People's Party wants to run.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142605	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen's statements surprise me almost every time, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen opens his mouth. I thought we had an agreement here in the Danish Parliament. It's even a very broad agreement with the agreement of all parties except for Enhedslisten to go for a parallel agreement, and I haven't yet heard the government say that it can't be done. On the contrary, we were at a meeting yesterday, where we actually decided to go further along that path. So I don't know if Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has been completely mentally absent from that meeting, but I have to say that the things he concludes here are amazing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142636	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142639	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Can the rapporteur confirm that if Denmark is to have sovereignty back in this area, that is to say that it disregards the EU's principle of aggregation and also ignores the principle of the obligation to pay welfare benefits, even if the recipient does not reside in this country, then it will require unanimity? This means that all other EU countries must approve it if Denmark is to have sovereignty back in these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142709	I can confirm that. It is the case that EU law takes precedence over Danish law, and that means that if we had adopted that proposal we would be in the position that we would be dragged before the courts and that we would be in a very unresolved situation. But the purpose of this proposal has also been to illustrate what methods are actually used in the run-up to a referendum. Sir. Finn Sørensen and myself agree on what the outcome of that referendum should have been, and I have to say that I do think it is problematic when the Minister for Justice goes out on the day before such a vote and paints a picture that there is a right of withdrawal when that right of withdrawal does not exist de facto. But we could have tested it, you might say, by saying that, if it had become a yes, we could have put forward a proposal in here to regret it. Then we could have seen how it had been treated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142804	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142804-2	Thank you. Now, however, the proposals we are putting forward need to have such a degree of realism, in other words, in the sense that we are prepared to fight to get them implemented, knowing that it can be extremely difficult. But my question to the Danish People's Party in this matter is: what is the political realism in that all the other EU countries should give an acceptance that Denmark can look great at some principles described in the Treaty? And if you have to admit politically that realism isn't so damn great... excuse me, President, it went straight out of your mouth, but perhaps the President didn't record it, he's heard it before... so if you have to admit it, you don't have to re-evaluate your view of membership of the European Union if you really mean these things seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142857	When the President-in-Office is definitely looking at the Members, that means objecting. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142905	Thank you for that, and I hope it doesn't happen. After all, we have the idea that what is going to happen in Britain in June is a watershed for the European Union. If the British say yes, we believe that a large number of members of the European Union can materialise, who will enter into a debate on what the European Union should be dealing with and what the European Union should not be dealing with, and which will eventually lead to an EU that leaves more room for nation states. That is the goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421142943	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There is no such thing, and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421143002	The debate is open and the first to speak is. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421143031	Thank you for the floor. The Enhedslisten has put forward a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on employers' job posting obligations and, with the proposal, will impose a general obligation on all companies to look up job vacancies on Jobnet and on the job portals of professional organisations. In addition, Enhedslisten suggests that employers should be obliged to seek positions filled with resident labour by contacting trade unions and job centres before any recruitment from abroad. If employers fail to comply with these obligations, they will have to impose a penalty. Let me start with something a little overarching. Basically, I believe that we have a healthy and flexible labour market in Denmark, which some 775,000 job openings per year confirm, and I do not want to hide the fact that I am in favour of a transparent job market where companies' demand for labour is made available to job seekers through job portals, daily newspapers or the like. Fortunately, this is also the case to a large extent. If we look at Jobnet, more than 200,000 jobs were posted in 2015, and the internet is searched for Danish job listings, so that approx. 16,000 job postings a day at Jobnet. So I think we are well on our way, although of course I would like to see even more companies look up their positions. However, a state legal requirement that private companies that create jobs and employ unemployed persons should be criminalised and fined if they do not post jobs on Jobnet and on the job portals of professional organisations is not a path that the government is willing to go down. I believe it is important to recognise the management rights of companies to employ exactly the employee they want. In this context, the public employers have a special position, as the management right for them is limited by an obligation to apply for vacant posts filled with the candidate who may be considered to be the best qualified. Therefore, public employers must post the vacancy and publish the notice on Jobnet so that any applicants become aware of the job. Private employers are not subject to the same obligation, and they can therefore employ employees without first posting vacancies on Jobnet. It is my clear view that private employers should continue to have the freedom to choose the recruitment channels they want and the freedom to recruit the candidate they consider to be the most suitable in the situation; the state should not interfere unnecessarily in that. Furthermore, the proposals of the Enhedslisten are bureaucratic and will lead to unnecessary administration for businesses. At the same time, the proposal requires the public authorities to carry out and pay for a new supervisory task to check whether private companies should be fined if they do not look up jobs according to Enhedslisten's instructions. With regard to the proposal that employers should be obliged to apply for jobs filled with resident workers before any recruitment from abroad, this is a special procedure prior to the recruitment of foreign workers. Under EU law, this would constitute an illegal restriction on the free movement of workers, and the proposal would therefore be contrary to EU law. Finally, depending on the actual execution, the proposal may run counter to the ban on searching for people, for example. specific ethnic or national origin, as laid down in the Law prohibiting discrimination on the labour market. Again, I have to say that this is not a path the government wants to take. Having said that, I am fully aware that many jobs are being occupied by foreigners who come to Denmark to work. Companies are increasingly demanding labour and there is a risk that the unemployed will not benefit from the growth. This is untenable for both society and the individual. More unemployed people are going to work and benefit from the growth of the Danish economy if we are also to be able to afford the welfare we want in the future. Therefore, it is essential that we set up our performance systems wisely so that it pays off to work, and the government therefore has among other things. introduced this ceiling on cash benefits in order to ensure that there is a significant financial gain by changing public support to jobs. At the same time, we must make demands on the necessary mobility of the unemployed, both professionally and geographically, and ensure that job-created qualification is provided where necessary. I also believe that it is reasonable for the unemployed themselves to be active in getting in touch with companies that may be their new potential workplace, as well as, of course, the professional organisations that want to help their unemployed members into work. In the same way, it is obviously important for companies to look up positions, not least those companies that find it difficult to recruit employees, and they can also usefully address the job centres and the cashiers, who can also help with recruitment. Finally, I believe that the job centres have a responsibility for the business-seeking efforts, including presenting companies with the possibility of getting help with recruitment problems. The task of ensuring that Danish companies have access to the workforce they need is thus a shared responsibility and a prerequisite for creating jobs and growth. That is why, together with the social partners, we have just started the next phase of the trialogue with the theme of sufficient and qualified labour throughout Denmark and internships for young people. I look forward to these discussions, which I hope can create concrete solutions for the benefit of both the unemployed, Danish companies and the Danish economy. With regard to Mr Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, the government cannot therefore support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421143736	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief remarks... yes, then one came. The technique plays a small trick, but now we have Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421143746	Thank you. Let's just be honest and say that I thought I'd pressed. But thank you for the flexibility of the President. Thank you, Minister. After all, it is one of the strange discussions in which the Minister stands up and says that he is quite in agreement with the intention, because he thinks it is a good idea if companies look up vacant jobs in jobnet.dk. We can only note that there are a great many companies that do not. They have documented that themselves. I'll come back to the documentation that's behind it. Then Enhedslisten comes up with a concrete proposal, which is of course not intrusive to employers in any way, other than that they have to learn to press a button in jobnet.dk, just as thousands of unemployed people have learned to do. So I guess companies can figure it out, too. I just need to point out that this proposal does not in any way interfere with the right of employers to hire whoever they want. It's just a premonition that they should look up vacant jobs. That is why I would ask the Minister to explain to me once again how it can be that public undertakings have an obligation to do so here while private companies do not have it and what, frankly, is the problem of imposing on private companies the same obligation as public undertakings?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421143905	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421143906	As I mentioned, public employers have a restriction on their management rights. They have an obligation to employ the best qualified person, and therefore, of course, there is an obligation for them to make listings so that all potential qualified persons can apply for the jobs in question. The private sector must have the possibility of a free and direct and effective recruitment process. They must be able to find the employee on time according to the most effective procedures or channels of their choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421143940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421143941	Yes, but, sir. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: They're allowed 200 applicants. The 199 are highly qualified, but for some reason the employer prefers no. 200, less qualified. The employer who wants to make that mistake has the complete opportunity to make it. There is no interference in the company's management rights here. I simply do not understand the argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421144015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421144016	This is not a way to regulate the behaviour of private companies here. The private company, the hairdresser's salon, must have the opportunity, in cooperation with the job centre, to find the employee without too much red tape that you choose to hire. It may be pointless for a small company to make job postings with the consequence that hundreds of applicants are coming. It's just an example. We agree on the goal. We have an interest in the greatest possible transparency here. We are in the process of a very great transformation as a result of the employment reform, where the job centres are turning their faces to companies. My call, every time I have the opportunity to do so, to companies is now to use the job centres, to use Jobnet, also to create a perspective so that the job centres will be able to become much better at service to private companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421144113	No further requests have been made for short remarks, so we thank the Minister and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421144124	I would agree with Enhedslisten that there is a real problem here, that is to say that we have more companies employing cheap foreign labour on the grounds that they cannot get the workforce at home. When the trade union movement goes after them, they find out that they have never applied in the job center, in the a-box or anywhere else, so in other words it has just been a bad excuse for just getting cheap labour. I would also like to admit that the Enhedslisten proposal will be able to make it impossible for them to use this excuse, but I find it difficult to see that it can make it possible that they will not continue to employ cheap labour. Having said that, we must also bear in mind that there are a great many companies that work hard every day, provide a lot of jobs and which help to preserve the prosperity and prosperity that we have in the country today. These are companies that behave properly, with good agreements, good wages and good conditions for their employees, companies that employ employees through their networks and get the employees they believe can help to develop their business. For these reasons we cannot support the proposal, but we would like to acknowledge the great work done by the trade union movement to show the great hypocrisy of those companies that take cheap foreign labour for reasons that are not real. We must all help each other get the Danes who cannot get a job started. We talk about this every day in these committees, and so do we. We also need to make it easier for companies that really cannot provide labour and ensure that they have well-trained and good employees, and then, of course, we also need to continue to fight with beaks and claws against social dumping and ensure good, decent jobs that follow Danish agreements and thus retain the Danish model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421144323	Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421144334	I just have to point out that the purpose of this proposal is not to expose the hypocrisy of employers. The purpose of the proposal is also stated in the comments that all unemployed people in this country should have the same fair chance to bid for the job vacancies. And the aim is also to give you, what to say, a reminder to employers that before they hire and import labour from, for example. Eastern Europe, they must contact the job center and the union to at least give the unemployed who live here a chance. That is the purpose. Moreover, I think that the rapporteur made a lot of good arguments for our proposal. I just didn't understand why you wouldn't want to support it. Well, I just didn't understand that argument. What is the reason for not supporting this proposal, which will obviously fulfil the intentions of the rapporteur himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421144431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421144432	It is not so obvious that it will meet them, because I also said in my rapporteur's speech that I do not think this will prevent the hiring of cheap labour. I really think I said that quite clearly. I heard Mr. Finn Sørensen tells the Minister for Employment that this was not so difficult that it was simply pushing a button. So, we can't agree that if you as an employer have a position and look it up I don't know how long it takes to look up one of these, I've never been an employer or had a company and if there are 200-300 applications, we expect you to read the 200-300 applications? And you can't just do that with a click. So I want to say that I think we should be careful that we do not make any demands on some of these companies which, as I also said, have good Danish agreements and which do it very well and set up a bureaucracy for those who are completely insane. And then, as a private company, you have to take what you think is the right one, and, by the way, so do you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421144536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421144537	Okay, I get it. This is because employers will not be burdened with the burden of having to deal with a whole lot of applications. I understand that is the explanatory statement. That is, of course, fair enough, but then I do not understand why you do not have the same attitude towards the unemployed, who are after all required to send hundreds of applications for all kinds of jobs via jobnet.dk or by personal appearance or by written applications. Otherwise, they risk losing their right to benefit. Why is it that the rapporteur has no problem with imposing all these obligations on the unemployed, but that when it comes to imposing obligations on companies, the rapporteur will not be involved? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421144618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421144619	But I think it is first and foremost important for the unemployed to do all they can to get a job. Of course it is. I guess it's their wish to get a job, I'm not for a second in doubt it is. But, of course, an employer must do everything possible to get good employees, and that is what we are doing. After all, many employees are employed via networks. There you then search through your network to get some good employees. And many of them do it via applications or other, and that's really, really fair. I think it should remain that way, and that is why I believe that this will be too big a step. Nevertheless, I recognise that it may help to ensure that no one uses the bad excuse that I started by saying in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421144700	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421144708	Thank you, President. With regard to the motion for a resolution, I think I will begin with what we in the Danish People's Party can agree with Enhedslisten in, because there is, after all, something that we can agree with, and this is precisely the fact that an employer will employ foreign workers on the grounds that you cannot get labour in Denmark. So in the Danish People's Party we think that we should of course make sure that there is really no Danish labour available. And it is in these cases that we think it is fair enough to say that the job should be looked up, because if the employer has not looked up the job, there is no justification for having to pick up labour abroad either. That is how far we can agree, because that is what the Danish People's Party has said in the past, and of course we stand by that. There's nothing there. The first point is about this with job postings on Jobnet and in the professional portals. I don't know what, sir. Finn Sørensen is planning, because there are probably some 700,000 job openings a year, and some of those jobs have been occupied at very short notice. When employers lack one, they may take one from the pile of applications that they have left, or someone who knows someone who knows someone, and then they may already have one on hand they can hire, and if that type of job is to be looked up, it is perhaps 700,000 who have to be thrown up. If the job has been turned up and there are unemployed people looking for the job, knowing that the job is actually occupied in advance because the employer has an application in the pile from someone you want to hire, I don't think it's fair to the unemployed that they should then enter and check these jobs. As I said, there are cases where employers say: we cannot find skilled labour, we cannot find the employees we need, so we have to pick them up abroad. But if they haven't contacted the job centre, if they haven't contacted the cashiers, and if they haven't looked up the jobs on Jobnet, they can't justify it either by having to pick up labour from abroad. We can easily agree on that. But I find it hard to imagine how to manage Jobnet if there are 700,000 jobs a year that are posted on Jobnet when employers might look up a job, let's say at 8:00. 10:00 a.m. and we have to get back in at 10:00 a.m. 10.15 and remove the post because the job is occupied. Well, that's the kind of job I find it hard to see there. It may be that Mr. Finn Sørensen doesn't have in mind that's the way to do it. But in the private sector it is often the case that when you hire people, it is here and now you hire because you haven't had time to wait the month that may be the deadline for applications that should be on a job. It may also be, it's only 14 days or 1 week, I don't know what it is in that context; there may of course be differences, depending on what kind of job it is. So we cannot support the proposal as such, but what we have said in relation to paragraph 2 on foreign labour is, of course, clear, that it is reasonable to contact the job centre or the professional job portals or the cashiers. That is where we then have to go and look at how it is ensured that companies can obtain skilled labour. This is done by setting in motion a proper system of upgrading the skills of the unemployed so that they can offer employers what the employers lack and, as I understand the Minister, that is what lies in the trialogue negotiations. That is something I have been saying for a long time, and I understand from everything that I have said about the upgrading of the unemployed, they have taken part in the trialogue negotiations. So of course we in the Danish People's Party can only be happy about it and thank the Minister for having come in that way; hopefully you are sure that it will happen. However, we need to look at how we can ensure that the unemployed have the right qualifications, and this is done by giving them the skills that employers demand. I think so, sir. Finn Sørensen agrees with me. Then we need to look at how to make the interaction between job centres and companies work. It doesn't work in all municipalities. Some municipalities have good cooperation. They have company confidentiality, so they turn to job consultants in the job centre, and that is the way we think we should go first and foremost. But we agree that this with employers who say that they cannot get qualified labour without having done something to look for it without contacting the job centre without contacting the cashiers without having looked up the job at Jobnet is wrong. On the whole, we cannot support the proposal in this way. We must admit this, because we believe that there will be chaos in Jobnet if employers are to look up jobs and remove them again after a very short period of time, and I also believe that it will be incalculable for the unemployed if there are suddenly 700,000 listings during the year and those listings have been removed in a very short space of time. I do not have an overview of the length of time a job like that opened up by the private sector is on Jobnet, but I have at least experience that many companies have employed one, so as soon as they say that they lack labour, they have hired one they had on hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421145238	Thank you. And there's a question from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421145241	Thank you. It doesn't help much to train the unemployed if they don't have the opportunity to bid for the job vacancies because they don't get posted. The whole purpose of this motion for a resolution is, of course, to give all unemployed people a fair chance to bid for the vacancies that are available. I do not think that we should then pour our head into the tripartite negotiations as far as the issue of qualification is concerned. It is clear that it must not cost more than it costs today and that what the government wants to do is to do an analysis. I don't think anything's gonna come of that. However, the issue raised by the rapporteur has been taken into account in the motion for a resolution, because it is clear that, in short-term recruitment, the obligation does not apply. However, if we are fortunate enough to get a majority for such a bill, we can define it further. But there is, of course, the fact that if it is a permanent position, it has to be looked up, and if it is a short-term appointment, it is not necessary. And if you need labour right now, the employer must employ some manpower to get the job done. But that does not preclude the permanent position being looked up. After all, most recruitments are also on a three-month probationary period, where people must agree that more qualified applicants can be made available. So that problem has actually been taken into account in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421145355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421145355-2	I don't think we're interpreting it with short-term appointments in the same way. Because when we talk about short-term employment, I interpret it as meaning that it is when a company hires someone for a period of less than three months. But now, after all, I have been on the labour market for a long time, and with my knowledge of the labour market, I can say that when companies lack people, too, when they lack someone for a long time, they hire people here and now. I myself was employed at very short notice in the companies. There was nothing about me having to search, and then I would be notified after a month. It was here and now you were hired because the company needed one. Well, that's just what you have to take into account. After all, it is not the case that it only has to be in relation to short-term employment of less than three months. If a company lacks an employee and it is a permanent job, then they may have a bunch of applications where there are some qualified people and then they hire one of them. Because they might have thought in advance that if they're gonna need an employee, they're gonna take one from the pile and hire.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421145458	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421145500	Now I guess I have some sort of right of interpretation for this proposal, in that it is Enhedslisten who has put it forward. And as I've been trying to explain, it won't be impossible to do it. It is that simple, and we have tried to take that into account in the formulation of the proposal. And if there was otherwise a political will to continue working on it, so that it was actually ensured that all unemployed people were given a fair chance to apply for the unemployed jobs that are in Denmark, then it would probably also be possible to find a solution to the problem if it was not solved with the text we have created.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421145530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421145531	Well, that's sir. Finn Sørensen's interpretation, and since he has made the proposal, it is of course his and the authors' right to interpret it in the way they wish. But I am just interpreting it in a different way, and in this context I think that if all jobs with an employment time of over 3 months are to be turned up, it may be that we are down to 500,000 job openings that have to be posted on Jobnet every year. For most jobs are in permanent jobs. Now I don't want to be hung up on whether those numbers fit. But I think that we will have a burden on Jobnet and employers, plus that the unemployed will be looking for jobs that are actually occupied in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421145626	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421145638	Thank you. We already have an employment system in which the unemployed offer their labour force and can look for job vacancies, because basically we have a healthy and flexible labour market. We have a labour market where companies have a demand for labour and the unemployed offer their labour. I would like to start by saying that I recognise that it could be more optimal if more companies posted their vacancies on Jobnet, but I think that there is a very long way to go from the call I am sending today, and then that we in the Danish Parliament have to come in and legislate quite specifically that it should be done, and that if you do not do so, then a penalty will be imposed, at least as I understand it, when I read the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution. Then I must also just say that we have done a number of things in the field of employment, most recently with the employment reform, which has led to the fact that there is now even closer contact between the job centres and the companies on the ground. In other words, job centres also become more aware of where job openings are among private companies. That's really good, and we need more of that. However, that the State should impose such an obligation on private companies that each time they want to recruit labour, they should look up the position in a certain way is not the way we get more growth in our companies. It is not for the State to interfere so zealously in how the individual employer gets the job vacancies filled. There is a Jobnet; it is an opportunity. There are also a large number of other channels that private companies are already using in ordinary newspapers, online, other places where they recruit labour. And I think they should continue with that. I am quite sure that private companies are the best at finding out how to find the labour they need. Then there is the second part of the proposal, which is an attempt at • I do not quite know how to interpret it • making such a stop-block, so that companies must have even more difficulty in hiring workers who do not come from Denmark but come from abroad. One is that it is contrary to EU law; another is that it is an attempt to say this in other words: well, if you have the right social security number, the right address, then you have to have a priority. That is then Enhedslisten's message, and that is fair enough, but I do not believe that it is necessarily the right way to go, and that is not the way to go if we want to create growth overall in Denmark for the benefit of all unemployed people and for the benefit of all those who, moreover, are looking for jobs in Denmark. So, on this basis, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150007	Thank you. There's a questioner, sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150011	Thank you. Apparently, I need some effort to explain what is and is not in our proposal. It does not say anything about it, and it will not have as a consequence that the resident unemployed have a priority for the jobs, as the rapporteur claimed. The rapporteur may also have to acknowledge that our proposal does not say so. It just says that they must have a fair chance to bid for the job before it is given to any imported labour from Eastern Europe. The rapporteur ought to agree with this, and I simply do not understand why we are trying to distort our proposal in this respect. Would the rapporteur please explain to me why public undertakings should be subject to that obligation, but that it should not be imposed as soon as it is a private company? After all, it serves the same purpose: that all unemployed people should have a fair chance to offer their jobs. Then I don't get it with zeal... that it should be an expression of zeal. If so, then the Left is very zealous when it comes to imposing all kinds of demands and sanctions on the unemployed if they do not apply in a very specific way. Why should the same requirement not be made for employers, so that all unemployed people have a fair chance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150124	Yeah, there were a lot of questions. With regard to EU law, setting up small and large fences to ensure that people who want to work in Denmark are behind the queue is not in line with the free movement of workers. After all, they will come to that if Enhedslisten instructs employers, each time they wish to seek labour, to turn to a specific place to see if there is a free Danish labour force. That is an obstacle to the free flow of labour in Europe. No one is interested in that. Then it is the case with public employers that they have the special position of having to apply for vacant posts filled with those who are considered to be best qualified. That is why they should look it up on Jobnet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150228	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150229	I have commented on this to the Minister for Employment. So I just have to say that the rapporteur thinks it is more important for the employer to be able to come to complete freedom, as they are doing today, without the slightest small obligation to import cheap labour from Eastern Europe than it is to ensure that all residents of the unemployed are given a fair chance to offer up job vacancies. I can only say that this is the position of the rapporteur, and then we will not get that far in the debate. I have to admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150303	Certainly not! I think it is very good that companies can get the manpower they want. But I do not support and do not support the fact that the labour you then employ is not paid properly. Of course they must have it. This is also why we are taking initiatives in cooperation with the social partners to ensure that those who come to Denmark to work receive a decent salary and that they are not paid in a way that undermines the Danish model and the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150336	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150401	Thank you for that, President. It may not come as a surprise to the Enhedslisten that the Liberal Alliance cannot support this resolution. The basic idea is that all employers should be obliged to look up jobs at Jobnet, that employers should contact the job centre and professional organisations if they employ foreign labour. For us, it is absolutely crucial that the state should not, of course, interfere in how employers employ workers. So we should not interfere in the recruitment channels used by employers; employers must be completely free from this. This is a bureaucratic proposal, because in the event of it being introduced, there should be some control by the public authorities as to whether employers actually opened up jobs on Jobnet. What would be the penalty if you didn't do it? I think this is a far-reaching bill. Many employers, they may be small master craftsmen, etc., have a network of people they call, often perhaps someone they have employed in the past and so on, whom they know lack a job. To imagine that one should go in and legislate that each time they should go in and look up a job on Jobnet will be bureaucratic, and it will understandably be very, very unpopular. So, of course, we should not impose that on the employer. Then, of course, there is also the legal question, namely that it would be contrary to the rules on the free movement of workers in the European Union, that there should be a special employment procedure for foreigners, and there will be, of course, if it is the case that we have to do something quite specific if we intend to employ foreign workers, in this case to inform about it. That is why we cannot support the bill. Finally, I would like to say that the draft law is also based on a fundamentally wrong premise, namely that when you employ foreign labour in Denmark, it is at the expense of Danish labour. That is simply not correct. It would only be correct in that case to believe in the assumption that there are a certain number of jobs in an economy. There is not, and therefore the employment of foreign labour is at least over time not at the expense of Danish labour. So the premise of the draft law is also fundamentally wrong, and that is only another good reason not to support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150713	Thank you. And there's a question from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150717	Thank you. As far as the last point is concerned, I would ask the rapporteur to study what has actually happened since the crisis broke through at home in 2008, when it is a fact that thousands of workers have been fired and that companies have employed Eastern European labour on a very large scale instead. It can be documented with dry numbers. But apart from that, I would just like to say that I can fully confirm the rapporteur's expectation that I had no expectation that the rapporteur would support this proposal, because I have never seen the Liberal Alliance in this Parliament support any proposals which imposed any obligations on employers in this direction. So why would the Liberal Alliance do that today? On the other hand, I have seen countless times that the Liberal Alliance has a great appetite for and a great eagerness to impose all kinds of obligations on the unemployed and is prepared to impose all kinds of sanctions if they do not seek jobs sufficiently energetically in the view of the Liberal Alliance. So I have to say thank you for the rapporteur's complete compliance with my expectations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150829	To this I would say that there is, of course, the difference that the unemployed in Denmark are heavily subsidised by the public funds through the international context of very, very lucrative transfer arrangements. And with money paid by others, there are usually requirements that the money is spent in a sensible way, in this case, that the period when you get money while you do not have a job is as limited as possible. In this way, we do not, fortunately, support the idea, and we will never be going to the employers with direct subsidies. This is done in some cases, the energy industry, etc., but it is not the guiding principle in Denmark that we subsidise employers. That is why it makes no sense to follow the same requirements. So again, I think the comparison is, to put it mildly, strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421150937	Will the rapporteur therefore argue that when the rapporteur's party helps to facilitate corporate tax of 4 billion? kr., is it a proposal that suddenly follows a whole lot of obligations for employers to invest in some jobs, or how does it relate? In other words, would the rapporteur not confirm that companies in this country receive billions of public subsidies every year, directly and indirectly, without any obligation to invest and create jobs in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421151015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421151016	Yes, but there we come down to a fundamental disagreement between the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance. Easing corporate tax is not subsidisation. It can never be. That is to say to some companies that have made some money: now you have to deliver a little less of the money that you have earned yourself. It is not, of course, the Treasury's money, unless we are in favour of everything being nationalised. The Enhedslisten may do so, as the rapporteur himself has to explain, but we do not do so in the Liberal Alliance. So the money the companies earn is their own money, and we think they should keep some more of it. The money that you get when you're on cash benefits or cash benefits is money that comes from others. That is the fundamental difference, and that is why there are also some demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421151107	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next speaker is Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421151121	Thank you. As I understand this proposal, it intends to make job recruitment more accessible to the unemployed here in Denmark. In essence, I very much agree with Enhedslisten's intention with the proposal and would like to support the focus on this issue. However, in the alternative, we do not really believe that this proposal is particularly precise in terms of meeting that challenge. In order to solve this challenge, we believe that this requires, first and foremost, a change of culture in many companies. It is an event that must be driven by the will to do things right and right, including for the community. Many companies are already on their way, others are craving. And the question is: will this proposal contribute to such a change in culture? And that is what we are sceptical about in the alternative. One thing is that networks are employed, but if it is the individual company's assessment that the quality of the labour force will be better through networking than through the local job centre, I think the challenge must be to strengthen the work of the job centres, so that there will be a greater quality of cooperation between them and companies. After all, the Job Centres would like to represent such a kind of network for many relevant workers. In other words, I would like to help ensure that cooperation with job centres is given such quality that there is actually a desire to use the job centres, and not an obligation to do so. When it comes to foreign competition, I would also like to emphasise that we fully recognise the issue that Enhedslisten is putting forward, but I am just not convinced that this intervention has the desired effect. In Denmark only one fifth of private companies are even considering employing foreign workers, and it is worth noting that the workforce is so highly specialised that we cannot deliver it in Denmark, including jobs where there is no competition in relation to Danish job seekers. And if we go further down the numbers, we can see that it's actually only 1%. of companies in Denmark employing two thirds of all the newer labour force from EU-10 countries and from non-western countries. This is how much industry-specific it can be agriculture, fishing, cleaning etc. And when you look at the companies employing foreign workers, I also have doubts as to whether this proposal is of any use. I think that if companies want to hire foreign workers, many of them will do so no matter what, and that is why I am afraid that many of these job postings can become pro forma, and that when you do so, you will post jobs on job portals. Then you just expose the unemployed to looking for jobs to which they would to some extent not be eligible anyway. This means that many Danes are going to spend time looking for a lot of jobs that are not really available. All in all, we are concerned that this proposal creates costs and unnecessary bureaucracy for companies and unnecessary bureaucracy for the authorities responsible for monitoring pro forma job vacancies and for the job seekers who have to look for jobs, and that is why we do not support it. We believe that we can help to achieve the aim of the proposal in a different way, namely by sending unsolicited applications to companies which traditionally employ foreign workers. The unemployed must already be active job seekers, so it can surely not be so difficult for employees in the country's job centres to identify the companies that employ a lot of foreign labour and ensure that the cannon is directed at them, so that they always have a large pile of job applications from the Danish unemployed when the job openings come.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421151449	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421151453	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. In other words, the last thing the rapporteur said is not connected. The rapporteur argues against our proposal, in relation to the risk of looking up positions which are pro forma positions because they are still occupied with foreign labour. Now the rapporteur proposes that the way to solve this is exactly the same: job centres must have the unemployed to look for jobs in companies that traditionally employ foreign workers. It's exactly the same thing. After all, this is about ensuring that everyone out of work in this country gets a fair chance to bid for the job vacancies. It is not the same as having them, it is not the same as not being employed by foreign workers instead. It is simply because we have recognised what the legal framework is in relation to it today and that we cannot do it without a break with EU rules. This is about ensuring fair competition for all the unemployed. I simply cannot believe that the alternative will not support such a proposal. This cannot be more fair than what we are proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421151559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421151601	We want to help work on the intention there is, but we would rather spend some of the many billions I think it is 8 billion. kr. I figured out it might be a nasty calculation... that we spend 8 billion a year at the job centers. They provide 40,000 jobs, and then you could say a little nasty that's $200,000. per jobs that are disseminated if you say that the function of the job centres is solely to provide jobs. Surely we can get much, much more out of that money by ensuring that the places where jobs are, where demand is, are carpet-bombed with applications. That is a much more direct way, I think, to go to it than to build a system that seems expensive and that we are not sure of is working and where some of it may be contrary to EU law and also requires such a mastodon of an administrative sanction model.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421151656	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421151658	This doesn't cost much money. Jobnet.dk already exists, and it is not much trouble for employers that they have to look up a job available. It certainly doesn't take them longer than it takes for the unemployed to apply for it, or than it takes for an available person to make his profile on jobnet.dk. I think we can agree on that. It's not a lot of seconds to spend on it. So I don't understand that argument. Is it not basically about the alternative dislikes imposing something on employers? Is it not here that we have the problem because you believe that in good words you can convince employers that they should give everyone who is unemployed in this country a fair chance? I would just like to ask: what indicates that employers are prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421151743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421151744	The thing about the fact that it's just a push of a button, and then you've looked up a position, doesn't fit. I'm an employer myself, and I have a small business, so it's not that often I hire, but I do it every now and then. And if you have to look up a position, both on the job portal and on a number of job portals in the professional organisations, you have to describe the job notice. It may take an hour all in all to get it described and have it turned up all the places. If you multiply it by 500,000 a year, for example, then it is still a contractual hourly wage somewhat of an expense. And if we then say that many of the jobs in the companies that are going to look up the jobs will still be filled by foreign workers that they have in their network, then all the Danes who then think there is a job should also spend time seeking what companies need to spend time answering all 300 job applications, etc. etc. So from the perspective of a company, it's not just pressing a button, so there's a lot of work in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421151848	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421151901	Thank you. I think the previous rapporteurs have been good on the subject. I agree with most of them, since most of them are sceptical about this resolution. In the Radical Left, we also believe that we should allow the reform of employment to work. It is precisely this reform that will ensure that there is much closer contact between the job centres and the companies and that the job centres have an overview of what some jobs are becoming unemployed and what companies are looking for. They're the ones who need to know the unemployed. Furthermore, as you know, we are reasonably concerned about the free movement of labour in the European Union. We will not stand in the way of that. This has made us rich in Denmark. Nor should we over-regulate our companies. They have the right to hire whoever they want. They must comply with the rules, but they know best who can carry out the tasks of their own business. We would like to be careful to introduce additional bureaucracy, which I think is one of them. The alternative rapporteur has just described it. So we have respect for the Danish model. This must be the way to regulate private companies in the Danish labour market. So we are against this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152035	Thank you. There are questions from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152039	I was listening to see if there was going to be anything new, and then there was. It seems to be disrespect for the Danish model if companies were to be required to look up the job vacancies. But then we have already shown disrespect for the Danish model by imposing on the public How does it relate? What did the rapporteur mean by that, in other words, it should be disrespectful of the Danish model to require companies to look up vacant jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152108	I can also sometimes reflect on how much bureaucracy we have to regulate in the public sector, but I think there is a whole fundamental difference: that it is for public funds in the public sector that we deal with the conditions of the unemployed. And I do not think that we can impose on private companies, which can be very small, to have to look up jobs here that they may have occupied, have manpower for just because we want to ensure that it comes on a portal. I believe that this is of no benefit to the unemployed or to the companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152153	No, the rapporteur does not think so because the rapporteur does not want to do so. I haven't heard any arguments yet. I just heard about the Danish model, and there I just want to hear how it would be an attack on the Danish collective agreement model that companies are required to look up some job vacancies. I just didn't understand that. I just wanted to know if the rapporteur was able to explain it when that one was smoking off his forehead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152216	No, I haven't talked about attacks on the Danish model. I say that in the Radical Left we have respect for it. We believe that employers and employees can work together to solve the problems, including: that when we are unemployed in Denmark, it is also a common task to see how we best arrange ourselves so that more people get into jobs. We shall then be able to contribute from a political point of view, among other things. with an employment reform that ensures that job centres have a much more outreach role in relation to businesses, that they are available and that they know the companies that exist in their local area. That is what I mean with respect for the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152256	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in line is Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152310	SF sees some good opportunities in Enhedslisten's proposal. There must be fair access to job vacancies and this requires a more transparent labour market. It is a long run for many unemployed people to find the job vacancies and there is a tendency for job vacancies to run around in closed circles where jobs change hands via personal networks. And once you have been unemployed for a long time, it can be difficult to fight back. It is clear that companies must decide for themselves who they hire, but it is necessary to make job openings visible to everyone. After all, in order to receive benefits, all unemployed persons are required to be on the job network every week and to apply for a job every week. In order to get qualified employees, a good infrastructure and, moreover, public service, we can well demand from the companies that they play with open cards by providing a more transparent labour market. With the implementation of this proposal, hopefully we could also avoid the jam that we experience from time to time when a company whines in the media about not being able to get employees. Most of the time it turns out afterward that they have never seriously searched for people. The SF can support the resolution, but we think it should be looked at critically so that the process does not become unnecessarily bureaucratic for companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152458	There is a question from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152502	I would just like to thank the rapporteur for his positive reception and also thank the rapporteur for his approach to the purpose of the proposal. I would, of course, like to continue working with the rapporteur on the fact that, if there are any shortcomings, they must, of course, be resolved. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur sees that there are some problems, or whether that was, what should be said, a precautionary view that the further examination of a legislative proposal will always reveal some inappropriateness.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152536	No, the comment was that I could be very interested in finding models that could make it as easy as possible for the companies. I am thinking in particular of smaller companies so that they do not feel that they have to go through an unnecessary bureaucratic process. We agree on the goal. It is only a question of whether you can imagine some action so that the companies do not get scared of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152559	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in line is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152609	Thank you. We cannot, of course, support the motion for a resolution. I regard it as a pure service to the trade unions that they now want to be given special status in relation to other organisations. You have to have job postings posted on their website. It is clear that this would be a very great advantage for them. Then there will be huge traffic on their website and, of course, they would like that, but from a reasonable point of view I think it is a rather strange proposal. Of course, we do not support that. It is not very market economy or particularly sensible to impose such requirements on companies. So we vote no.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152657	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421152712	Thank you. Thank you for the debate. It has, of course, been interesting in that the waters part when we come to such a very concrete practical proposal as this one. Then it becomes clear which parties will be involved in imposing obligations on employers, so that they also have a responsibility to ensure that all the many unemployed we have in this country get the same fair chance of offering jobs for the unemployed. There are parties that want it and there are parties that do not want it. So I would like to start by expressing my sincere thanks to the Socialist People's Party for their support, knowing that in the further work there may be some things that need to be addressed. You always have to be open to that. However, I should just like to express my regret that the vast majority of parties in this Parliament have no desire to give employers certain obligations. We do not want to look at the purpose of this proposal, which is to ensure that all unemployed people in this country are given a fair chance to bid for the job vacancies. What could be more reasonable, what could be fairer? However, the aim is also to ensure that residents of the unemployed are given the opportunity to bid for jobs before companies import labour from outside. However, the vast majority of parties in the Folketing do not have such elementary positions, and I am really, really sorry about that. The fact is that today we have approx. 170,000 unemployed people who are actively seeking a job. This is apparent from what is known as the AKU, the large labour force survey carried out every quarter. It's 170,000 people looking for a job in vain. But there are thousands of jobs that never get turned up, so those people have an opportunity to bid on them. We often have a discussion about it. The Danish Employers' Association publishes this magazine called Agenda. It will be published once a quarter. We are told that there have now been many thousands of unsuccessful recruitments, in other words situations where companies have not been able to provide the manpower they want. That's how it's interpreted. Thus, in the autumn of 2015, there were 18,000 unsuccessful recruitments, as it is called. It gets up big and used as an argument that now we have to tighten the rules of availability against the unemployed, those who are lazy unemployed, who are not looking to take the jobs that are available. But when you scrub the surface a little, it turns out that most of the jobs involved have never been opened up. It's only 35%. of these unsuccessful recruitments, which have had a listing at www.jobnet.dk, and only in 25%. of the cases, the company has made contact with the job center. Then I would like to say straight away that this does not mean that the unemployed have not sought the jobs. It is just as an expression of the fact that employers have hastened to fill the post on the other side. So this cannot be taken as an indication that there are a whole lot of jobs that are not being sought by the unemployed. It just needs to be straight with you for the sake of understanding. I'm taking it along to show that there are thousands of job vacancies in this country that are never being turned up, with the result that the many thousands of unemployed we have don't have an earthly chance to bid on them, and that's probably not fair. At the same time we know and it has 3F and other trade unions documented time and time again; you can just go to 3F's website, then you can see that there are plenty of examples • that many companies in certain industries use temporary agency agencies, often foreign temporary agency agencies, to systematically import outside labour for jobs that are never posted in this country. I guess it can't be fair and fair either. The interesting thing is that a survey has been carried out. It is shown that the Danish Employers' Association itself was in charge of the study which showed that 41 per cent. of companies believe that they could have done better. They could have done more to make their jobs available to all the unemployed, of course, with the objective that they would then also have a greater supply of skilled labour, which they then had the opportunity to choose from, which this proposal in no way restricts them. Then Enhedslisten comes up with a very concrete and low-practical proposal which will, of course, improve the opportunities for the unemployed to bid for the available jobs and, in fact, also improve the opportunities for companies to have a wider choice of candidates. And then, when we come up with such a proposal, we have to hear jam, whine and complain about how bureaucratic it is, and that it is contrary to EU rules and stop and come down here. Honestly, for me, it sounds like a bad excuse, because you do not want to impose anything on companies. I still have no clear answer to my question. Since it is true that we do have an announcement from the Minister, which requires all public authorities to look up the vacancies, why can we not ask or require private employers to do exactly the same? After all, the reference to the public sector employing skilled labour cannot be used. It would be strange if private companies did not have the same attitude. Actually, I think they do. But that cannot be used as an argument, because the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten does not restrict the right of companies to employ the workforce they now want to employ, qualified or not. That's why that argument doesn't hold up. This whole bureaucratic and heavy thing, I don't understand. It is certainly not heavier than the bureaucracy that has been laid down over the unemployed. But what is bureaucracy? It is that the companies have to describe the position they want to occupy. They've got that in their head already, don't they? Then they can also spend half an hour sitting down and in jobnet.dk's electronic schedules creating a profile on the position they would like to have occupied, so that the unemployed can see if their own profile on jobnet.dk matches that position so that they get a chance to bid on it. How hard can it be now? Then there is the fact that it should be an interference with the rules of EU law on freedom of movement. I simply do not understand that. After all, it is not a question of giving priority to resident workers to fill the post. No, it is a matter of limiting, if you should say so, the preference of foreign workers. It is a right in the eyes of the goose, it is not a right they have in the law or other rules. It is a right that they are taken into account because many companies use temporary agency agencies to import labour without ever looking up positions here in Denmark. So there is no discrimination in the sense of EU law in this. And that is why it is not a question of setting up any brake blocks at all for this to happen that migrant workers should be able to come here and look for work or that they should be able to import labour by means of temporary employment agencies. I wish you could put up a block like that. We cannot do that, as the EU rules have been drawn up. We have tried to make a proposal that could actually improve the opportunities for the Danish residents of the unemployed to apply for job vacancies within the existing rules. So my conclusion is simply that we have a number of parties here in the Folketing, with the exception of the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten, who would rather die than impose specific obligations on companies to help solve the problem that no one has disputed, but in which all of them have given me the right to exist, namely that there is a imbalance because there are a number of job vacancies that are not being looked up, with the result that all unemployed people do not have the same fair chance of bidding on them. So it is basically a matter of attitudes. Unfortunately, I have to say that. I would then just like to welcome the fact that Enhedslisten is not alone with it. There is also another party, the Socialist People's Party, which would like to continue working in this direction, and then we will continue to be comforting. Mr. Karsten Hønge and I. We're gonna keep going long enough, and we're gonna make it. It might be interesting to go out and discuss it in the trade unions and among all the unemployed. I think we would have a lot of support for such a proposal as this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421153619	Thank you. And there are questions from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421153624	Thank you. Now, sir. Finn Sørensen said three times in this debate that the fact that the alternative does not support this proposal means that under no circumstances do we ever dare to impose any requirements on any company. Therefore, it is incredibly important to me just before I come to my question to say that the reason why we do not support this is that we do not believe it works. We think it will be extremely expensive for companies, we think it will be very bureaucratic, we think a number of pro forma jobs are being turned up, we think it will create unnecessary hope for the unemployed and we are afraid of a mastodon of an administrative penalty model. We doubt whether any of this is in fact contrary to EU law, and we think there is another solution that we ourselves have, which is better. How can Mr. However, Finn Sørensen continues to say that, by virtue of it in itself, he can conclude that the alternative will never impose any demands on the Danish companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20160421153720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421153721	I have not said that, in other words, in all sorts of other contexts we would not. In this context, I have not seen that there is any willingness on the part of the Alternative to commit employers. You think you can solve this by speaking well for them and by making the job centres work better in collaboration with companies. A great deal of money is being spent on this in advance, and all job centres have been trying to do so all along. They are being scolded by employers for not being good enough. I think that criticism is sometimes a little unjustified, because all job centres have a great interest in getting rid of, if I may say so, the many unemployed they have. So my impression is that many of the job centres, with the resources they have at their disposal and within the rules in force, are doing what they can to communicate the jobs, just as many, many trade unions do without getting any compensation from the public authorities in this regard. This is about imposing obligations on companies to shoulder a responsibility which, you might say, will also create a certain balance between all the demands of the unemployed, so that it might then be easier for the unemployed to understand all the obligations they have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421153835	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421153837	Specifically, in relation to this proposal, we have seven reasons why we think this proposal, which otherwise has a good intention, is not good enough, not a framework as it should, and there I hope, Mr President. Finn Sørensen will recognise that when we have seven good reasons, it is not just because we are afraid to impose requirements on companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421153855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421153857	I just have to say that the seven good reasons appear to me as postulates. I do not see anything bureaucratic about companies describing the vacant position they have and looking it up on jobnet.dk. I do not see anything bureaucratic about that, I must confess honestly. I have replied to that with EU rules, and the others are not concrete. So, excuse me, it appears to me as bad excuses because you do not want to impose it on companies. Then we should go into it in concrete terms and say: yes, companies must also be committed. And if you do not think that the way we have done it was good enough, you could put it into practice. This is where people have turned against the idea as such, namely that employers must be committed, and I am really disappointed when it comes from the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421153945	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160421154001	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 26 April 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
